Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17933-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FORA
REGULATORY REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 5, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Managing Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivianos (Bs)
I Bs = US¢ 18; US$1.0 = 5.48 Bs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR            American Depository Receipt
AFP             Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones
BCB             Banco Central de Bolivia
BONOSOL        Bono Solidario
CAF             Corporacion Andina de Fomento
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CCF             Collective Capitalization Fund
CONFIP          Comite de Normas Financieras de Prudencia
COTEL           Cooperativa de Telefonos de La Paz
DGF             Deposit Guarantee Fund
EMV            Empresa Metalurgica de Vinto
ENDE           Empresa Nacional de Electricidad
ENFE           Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ESAF            Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FONDESIF        Fondo de Desarollo del Sistema Financiero y Apoyo al Sector Productivo
FOPEBA          Fondo de Pensiones Basicas
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            Intemational Development Association
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LPG             Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOF            Ministry of Finance
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PCS             Personal Communications System
PMU             Project Management Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RPAC            Regulatory Reforn and Privatization Adjustment Credit
RPTAC           Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
SBEF           Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieras
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SIREFI         Sistema de Regulacion Financiera
SIRESE         Sistema de Regulacion Sectorial
SV             Superintendencia de Valores
SPVS           Superintendencia de Pensiones, Valores y Seguros
YPFB            Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Susan Goldmark/Axel Peuker



Bolivia
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                 1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators           1
B. Strategic Context                                                             1
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                       1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              1
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices     6
C. Project Description Summary                                                   7
1. Project components                                                     7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project          7
3. Benefits and target population                                         8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                          8
D. Project Rationale                                                             9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design               11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                      12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                           12
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                     13
1. Economic                                                              13
2. Financial                                                             13
3. Technical                                                             13
4. Institutional                                                          13
5. Social                                                                13
6. Environmental assessment                                              13
7. Participatory approach                                                14
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                     14
1. Sustainability                                                        14
2. Critical risks                                                        15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                        16



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                         16
1. Effectiveness conditions                                              16
2. Other                                                                  16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                 17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                17
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Bolivia
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Managing Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru (LCC6C)
Date: June 1, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: S. Goldmark/ A. Peuker
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero           Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: BO-PE-57396  Sector: Technical Assistance  Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit     Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [ ] Loan      [X] Credit      [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 20 Million Equivalent
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [ ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard (variable, from 0 - 0.5% of undisbursed balances, set annually by the Executive Directors)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                   1.42                1.42            2.84
Inter American Development Bank*                             0.00                2.00            2.00
Private Sector                                               1.50                6.00            7.50
IDA                                                          7.00               13.00           20.00
Total           9.92              22.42            32.34
* Parallel funding of activities.
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000       2001      2002    2003
Annual      2.0        4.0         6.0     7.0      1.0
Cumulative      2.0        6.0        12.0    19.0    20.0
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/98    Expected closing date: 03/31/03



Page 1
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Government of Bolivia has begun to undertake an ambitious program of reform designed to
strengthen the financial sector, enhance the legal and regulatory framework for infrastructure and
business, and promote improved provision of goods and services. The Regulatory Reform and
Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (RPTAC) proposes to support the Government in its efforts
through the provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare laws and regulations for the financial,
infrastructure and business sectors, (ii) implement a privatization and corporatization program, and (iii)
build institutional capacity to implement the reform program and support project management. In
addition, a small amount will be used to purchase computers, office supplies and informational materials.
The International Development Association (IDA) also plans to support the Government's program, and
in particular, the passage of key legislation through a proposed Regulatory Reform and Privatization
Adjustment Credit (RPAC). However, most of the activities supported under this proposed credit can be
implemented independently of the passage of such legislation.
The development objectives of the Government's reform program are to: (i) strengthen the stability and
efficiency of the financial sector; (ii) improve the coverage, quality and productivity of key infrastructure
services with appropriate tariff structures; and (iii) promote improved provision of goods and services
through the privatization of state-owned enterprises and the reform of public-service cooperatives. These
objectives are an integral part of the Government's program to generate sustainable, private-sector-led
growth in an equitable manner, and are reflected in the Government's Popular Property and Credit Law
that has recently been presented to the Bolivian Congress for its consideration.
The key performance indicators relating to the above development objectives are:
(i)    within the banking sector: (a) improved enforcement of prudential oversight; (b) orderly
consolidation of banks, including resolution of nonviable entities; and (c) improved transparency
and internal and external governance; within the non-bank financial sector: (a) improved
supervisory capacity and coordination; and (b) increased depth of capital markets and coverage
of the insurance sector;
(ii)   non-government investment in infrastructure as share of GDP increases from 1998 level; and
changes in market structure reflecting greater competition; and
(iii)  number of state-owned enterprises privatized and revenues generated; and
increased private investment in local public service providers.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17890-BO     Date of latest CAS discussion: June 16, 1998 (scheduled)
The project supports the CAS objectives of encouraging private-sector-led growth by supporting
development of an enviromnent conducive to domestic and foreign private investment and characterized
by stability, transparent rules and access to investment opportunities. The project and its objectives are
an integral element of the strategy endorsed by the CAS scheduled for Board presentation on June 16,
1998.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Achieving sustainable growth has been a key objective since the successful stabilization of the economy
in 1985. Successive governments have engaged in structural reforms which have reduced economic
distortions and a strong public sector presence in the economy. However, only recently has a basic
regulatory framework for the financial and infrastructure sectors been established and a set of key



Page 2
enterprises been privatized (through a capitalization program described in detail in Memorandum of the
President for a Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, Report No. P-6332-BO, May 1994).
Deepening of financial services, and promoting the competitive environment for the remaining real
sectors of the economy-agro-business, industry, and commerce-still need to be addressed. While the
country achieved solid growth of 3.3 percent per year on average during 1990-96 (slightly above the
LAC average), this performance has been below hopes and expectations. Difficulties in restoring
confidence in an economy which has suffered hyper-inflation and delays and shortcomings in the extent
of structural reforms, as well as very weak institutional capacity, have both constrained private sector
development and thus contributed to the gap between potential and actual performance.
In response to this situation, the Government has endorsed a National Action Plan (La Paz, 1997) based
on four pillars: opportunity (generation of growth with better distribution), institutionality (strengthening
of the institutional framework), equity (an increase in the living standards of the poor), and dignity
(removal of the country from the drug circuit by the year 2002). Generating growth through the
facilitation of private investment and creating sound supporting institutions that allow the private sector
to operate in a transparent and predictable environment are two main objectives of the Government's
development strategy. The proposed technical assistance operation will finance the necessary
international and local expertise needed to draft key legislation and strengthen the capacity of entities to
implement existing as well as proposed reforms. The proposed adjustment operation (see section A.1)
will be designed to support a subset of this reform program--the most important new legislation for the
banking, infrastructure and business sectors, and the privatization of a few key enterprises. Further
support to the country's objectives will be provided by the International Development Association (IDA)
in accordance with an overall program laid out in the CAS.
Specifically, the issues in the areas of financial sector regulation, infrastructure and business regulation,
and privatization that the Government's program aims to address are:
Financial Sector Regulation
Banking Sector: During the last few years, Bolivia has significantly improved the legal and regulatory
framework of the financial sector as well as the institutional quality of the bank supervisory agency.
These improvements have placed it closer to international best practices. Despite this, Bolivia has
experienced recurrent difficulties in its banking system. These difficulties are all the more relevant to
the country, given that financing to the private sector is almost exclusively channeled through banks, as
local capital markets and institutional investors (pension funds and insurance companies) are still at an
embryonic stage of development.
The Bolivian banking sector is currently composed of 16 banks with a network of 278 branches around
the country and accounts for 88% of total assets of the financial sector, with the rest in the hands of
cooperatives and savings and loans. Most lending activity involves the commercial sector and is
centered around the three largest cities - Santa Cruz (43%), La Paz (35%) and Cochabamba (16%) - and
around large borrowers (borrowers over $100,000 account for 74% of the loans).
The Bolivian banking system experienced extraordinary credit expansion from 1987 to 1994, a period
during which the banks' total loan portfolio grew from $596 million to $2.5 billion (22.7% annual
growth) following a growth in deposits from $106 million to $2.2 billion (54.2% annual growth) in the
same period. This growth had two main problems: (i) it was carried out without an equivalent and solid
growth in the capital base of the financial institutions, which only grew from $174 million to $230
million (4.0% annual growth); and (ii) as in any rapid credit expansion, lending was carried out without
the necessary prudence and diligence. The resulting underlying weakness of the banking system
surfaced in 1994. Late that year, the Government was forced to intervene and liquidate two troubled



Page 3
banks, Bancosur and Banco de Cochabamba, offering virtually full protection to depositors and other
creditors. These two banks and the serious problems faced in 1995 by at least another five banks,
including the then second largest bank in the system - Banco Boliviano Americano (BBA) - led to the
creation (through Supreme Decree) of the Fondo de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero y Apoyo al Sector
Productivo (FONDESIF) which was authorized to provide assistance to financial intermediaries subject
to, among other things, the increase of capital by old or new owners pari passu with the capital injected
by FONDESIF. Despite having been a useful tool within the fragile circumstances, FONDESIF had
some basic limitations and was transitional in nature, so that its authority to engage in operations to assist
undercapitalized or structurally illiquid banks expired at the end of March 1998.
The decision of the authorities to liquidate BIDESA in December 1997 again pushed to the surface the
weakness and vulnerability of the Bolivian banking system to sudden episodes of confidence erosion.
Indeed, several weeks after the Central Bank announcement that BIDESA's depositors were to receive
immediate payment only up to US$5,000, there was a run on one of Bolivia's largest banks. The Central
Bank announcement to cover only US$5,000 per depositor reflected the authorities' decision to use this
opportunity to change the public's perception of an implicit 100% government guarantee on bank
liabilities. To curb contagion, the authorities felt obliged to revert back to a substantial level of depositor
protection, committing to pay BIDESA's liabilities above US$5,000 with zero-coupon dollar-
denominated bonds, with greater maturities for larger amounts, although amounts over $200,000 were
only partially covered. Nevertheless, this episode revealed major weaknesses in the system, including
incomplete prudential regulations and enforcement capabilities of the supervisory authorities and an
ineffective failure resolution framework.
The Government, the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks plan to tackle a major reform of
the financial sector with the basic objective of improving the soundness of the financial institutions
active in the system through an improved legal and regulatory environment, including the creation of a
failure resolution institution (a Deposit Guarantee Fund [DGF]) with comprehensive authority to deal
effectively with troubled or failing financial intermediaries in an orderly, fast and non-destabilizing
manner. The intention is to force the system to go through an orderly consolidation process which will,
on the one hand, strengthen the healthier institutions through the entrance of new local or foreign capital
and, on the other hand, generate a progressive consolidation of the system.
Non-Banking Financial Sector: Currently, three separate superintendencies (for pension, insurance and
capital markets) are overseeing the non-banking financial sector. The Government intends to merge the
three superintendencies to create a single one. (the Superintendencia de Pensiones, Valores y Seguros).
A description of the strategic background for each sub-sector follows.
Pensions: On November 29, 1996 the Bolivian Government adopted a pension reform law (Law 1732)
that fundamentally modified the country's pension system. The reform immediately closed the defined-
benefit, publicly-managed pension system and replaced it with a defined-contribution, privately-managed
system with individual capitalized accounts.
The pensions granted in the old system by a public agency (FOPEBA) and 3 8 complementary funds will
be paid by the Treasury. In addition, workers will receive compensatory pensions for their contributions
to the old system that will also have to be paid by the Treasury. This has resulted in significant fiscal
constraints that are compounded by a reduction of fiscal revenues due to modifications in the
hydrocarbons tax regime. Government paper is currently financing the former pension system,
absorbing most of the resources managed by the Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones (AFPs).
While current institutional capacity and regulations have been adequate to begin implementation of the
system, improved regulation, oversight and supervision by the Pension Superintendency will be required



Page 4
as resources managed by the AFPs become available for investment in private sector instruments. To
this end, the Government intends to: (i) issue additional regulations, including investment rules, credit
rating requirements and market access regulations; and (ii) strengthen the supervisory agency, including
development of operating procedures and training of staff.
Insurance: The private insurance sector in Bolivia is under-developed and has traditionally confined its
activities to the insurance needs of state-owned enterprises. Effective control of the industry has been
provided through the efforts of several competent local insurance brokers working with major
international reinsurance companies. Because of this effective control, lack of Government supervisory
capability has not yet posed a problem, but it has limited the development of the sector.
As part of the pension reform initiatives and with the objective of increasing management efficiency, the
Government plans to turn over important social insurance programs to the private sector. In fact, the
premiums for death, disability and workers' compensation coverage are already being collected by the
AFPs, with the intention that they will transfer the premia for these types of insurance to qualified
private sector insurance companies. Selection and transfer have been delayed, however, by the weakness
of the regulatory and supervisory framework for insurance companies. Prior to transfer, the insurance
supervision framework needs to be in place and operational, with both financial and managerial
resources for regulation of a private-sector-based system. Adequate regulation is of vital importance as
few, if any, companies are judged to be capable of delivering the programs.
The authorities has placed before Congress a new Insurance Law that introduces modem practices. It
will then be necessary to launch a comprehensive program for the strengthening of the supervisory
agency, including components to develop new procedures for analysis and financial reporting,
recruitment of staff with the necessary expertise (particularly actuarial skills) and a program of training
to prepare staff to manage a genuine insurance supervisory system.
Capital Markets: Although a regulated securities market has been operating since 1989 (with stock
exchanges in La Paz and Santa Cruz), trading volume remains small, regulations are weak, and there is
limited transparency or information disclosure. Moreover, the Government has prepared a new law (the
Popular Property and Credit Law) to replace the annuities funded by the shares from the capitalization
program (Bonosol) with individual share accounts, as provided for under the capitalization law. It is
expected that the regulations and institutional arrangements for implementation of the new program will
be approved shortly.
The full implementation of the capitalization program, along with the new Popular Property and Credit
Program, will result in an increase in equity trading in the stock market. The supervisory agency will
likely be challenged by greater price share volatility, greater opportunities for price manipulation, insider
trading, and a shallow secondary market. Other issues include a lack of custody, clearing and settlement
arrangements, as well as a lack of an adequate way to assess the quality of individual debt obligations or
the credit standing of their issuers - there is no credit rating service or agency available to investors.
The Government has begun to respond to these challenges already, and has prepared a new Securities
Law ratified by Congress in March 1998. The Government intends to strengthen the supervisory
agency's rules and regulations, upgrade supervisory capacity, implement a staff training program, and
improve the computerization of the agency.



Page 5
Infrastructure and Business Regulation
The Government is seeking to strengthen and deepen the reforms in infrastructure and business
regulations carried out by previous administrations. These reforms included: (i) the implementation of
an improved investment law that removed restrictions on foreign and domestic investment; (ii)
establishment of an independent regulatory system (SIRESE) with a General Superintendency and
sectoral Superintendencies for key infrastructure sub-sectors; and (iii) passage of sector-specific
legislation to promote investment and competition. Bolivia is considered a good practice case of an
independent and transparent regulatory system. Nevertheless, the overall regulatory system is still
evolving and has yet to develop the track-record needed to give confidence to long-term investors.
Competition rules are rudimentary and limited to selected infrastructure sub-sectors. Moreover, several
superintendents' positions remain vacant, and there are some inconsistencies in the design of SIRESE.
Finally, some sector legislation is outdated, in particular in transport and water.
The Government seeks to develop and implement competition policies for the entire economy. At
present, there is no unified legal and institutional framework to promote competition or consumer
protection. To address these shortcomings, the Government plans to introduce a new umbrella law and
develop accompanying institutional arrangements for its implementation.
Mobilizing investment is contingent on the maintenance of investor confidence in the sectoral regulatory
system. The Government is seeking to enhance the regulatory framework for infrastructure by removing
inconsistencies between the oversight and appeal functions of the General Superintendent, improving
coordination with the Executive Branch to develop new norms, and establishing clear appeals
procedures.
While the regulatory frameworks for some sectors are overall adequate, others need significant changes.
In transport, for example, existing laws date from the turn of the century and urgently need to be
updated, including changes to promote service concessions, establish the basis for regulatory levies, and
define principles of setting tariffs and quality and performance standards, where appropriate. Likewise,
the current water law dates back to 1906 and therefore a new legal framework is needed. In the
hydrocarbons, electricity and telecommunications sectors, however, Government efforts are focused
more on consolidating the regulatory framework and promoting competition in the provision of services
that are already largely under private ownership or management.
Privatization
Previous governments have transferred key state-owned companies to private ownership and
management. Through privatization and capitalization programs, the long distance telephone company,
parts of the hydrocarbons and electricity companies, some airports, the national airline, the national
railways, and the La Paz/ El Alto Water and Sewerage Company were transferred to the private sector. In
addition, around 50 medium-sized enterprises were sold for a total value of around US$100 million.
Nonetheless, many state-owned companies remain to be sold (see Attachment 1 to Annex 2).
Accordingly, the Government has selected the most economically-important enterprises to be included in
its initial privatization program. These include: the hydrocarbon-sector assets owned by the national
hydrocarbons company (YPFB); the national smelting company (Empresa Metrolurgica de Vinto
(EMV)); a major cement company; two electric distribution companies; and the remaining state-owned
rail assets (ENFE). In addition, about 55 smaller companies, of which 40 are under the control of the
armed forces, are slated to be sold. The Government will prepare a prioritized list of all these enterprises
according to the economic significance of the enterprise, i.e., their revenues, asset values, and



Page 6
profitability. Then, it will devise bi-annual action plans for the sale of these remaining enterprises,
sequencing the privatization according to their economic importance and difficulty of sale.
Most public services (elecit icity distribution, local telecommunications, and water and sanitation) at the
local level are provided by approximately 450 public service cooperatives. Most of these cooperatives
have poor performance records, lack investment capital to expand service coverage and improve quality
of services, and are not under effective supervision. The government plans to extend service standards to
all service providers, including through concession contracts and licenses. Where public service
cooperatives do not comply with standards, the Government plans to require their corporate
transformation in a manner that would allow them to meet quality and coverage targets, assure
concession contracts and preserve share holder value. Again, the cooperatives will be ranked onto a list
according to economic significance, from which the Government will prepare bi-annual action plans for
their reform
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project plans to assist the Government in the implementation of its above-detailed strategy
through the funding of technical assistance, project management, and some goods (public information
materials and office supplies) and equipment (primarily computer hardware and software). Most
assistance will focus on the provision of consultant services to assist the Government in the preparation
of laws and regulations (the passage of which will be supported by the parallel adjustment credit) and
institution and capacity strengthening of existing and planned regulatory agencies for the financial
sector, infrastructure and business regulation, and privatization. Some of the capacity building assistance
will only take place once necessary legislative changes have been made. For example, legislation is
needed to establish the DGF before training of its staff can begin. Thus, the technical assistance is
designed to be implemented in a two-phased process. Where applicable, technical assistance will first be
provided to assist in the drafting of legislation and regulations. Once such changes have been ratified or
issued, technical assistance will then focus on capacity building of affected government agencies.
Assessments of technical assistance needs and requirements will take place at a minimum of once a year
and on appropriate program of technical assistance agreed upon. The proposed project will also provide
program implementation support, including a project implementation unit and public information
campaigns. A detailed breakdown of the technical assistance program and other support is provided in
Annex 2.



Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(IUSM)              (US$M)  financing
Financial Sector Regulation        Policy;        5.3       20.2%     4.1      77.4%
*  Banking Sector                Institution
*  Non-banking Financial Sector   Building
Infrastructure and Business        Policy;        5.6       21.2%     4.0      71.4%
Regulation                       Institution
*  Cross-Sectoral and Competition    Building
Regulatory Reform
* Sector-Specific Regulatory
Reform
Privatization                      Policy;        14.7      33.1%     5.2      35.4%
*  Divestiture of State-Owned    Institution
Enterprises                    Building
* Public Service Cooperatives
Reform
Program Implementation Support   Program and      3.2       12.2%     3.2      100.0%
-  Project Management Unit         Project
-  Public Information Campaign    Management
Other                              Other          3.5       13.3%     3.5      100.0%
- Refinancing of PPF
- Unallocated
Total     32.3       100%      20.0    61.9%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Financial Sector:
(i)    Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to improve the capacity of regulatory
agencies in charge of supervising banking, insurance, pension and securities markets.
(ii)   Provision of technical assistance to draft legislation and regulations to:
* establish the DGF;
* improve the prudential legal and regulatory framework for the financial banking and non-
banking sectors;
* restructure the regulatory institutions;
* redefine the Central Bank's lender of last resort facilities;
* replace the current non-contributory (capitalization) system with individual share accounts
(Property and Popular Credit Law); and
* improve regulation of the capital markets.
(iii)   Once the above legislation is passed, the program will assist in training relevant staff in its
implementation.



Page 8
Infrastructure and Business Regulation:
(i)    Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to improve the capacity of regulatory
agencies in charge of transport, hydrocarbons, and telecommunications.
(ii)    Training of staff of the Vice Ministry of Transport, Communications, and Civil Aviation in
concession procedures and the preparation of bidding of PCS licenses and competition in
telecommunications.
(iii)   Provision of technical assistance to draft:
* a domestic competition law for consumer protection;
* an administrative procedures law to ensure timely and effective appeals;
* amendments to the SIRESE law to clarify institutional roles;
* general sector laws and regulations for transport;
* a transport concessions law and regulations; and
* lacking regulations for hydrocarbons.
* regulations for market opening in year 2001 in the telecommunications sector
(iv)   Once the competition law is passed, provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to
establish and strengthen the new competition regulatory agency.
Privatization:
(i)    Provision of financial advisory services, legal and technical assistance, and promotion activities
for the privatization of remaining state-owned companies, including the national hydrocarbons
company (YPFB), the national smelting company (EMV), a major cement company, two
electricity distribution companies, and remaining state-owned rail (ENFE) assets and a selected
number of smaller state-owned enterprises.
(ii)    Provision of technical assistance to evaluate public service cooperatives, including setting
performance targets, and, where necessary, to support the transformation of their legal structure
in order to promote private investment and improve their management.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct benefits of the project will be the provision of technical assistance to support the
Government's reforms to promote: (i) the stability and efficiency of the financial sector; (ii) improved
coverage, quality and productivity of key infrastructure services, with appropriate tariff structures; and
(iii) enhanced provision of goods and services through divestiture of state-owned enterprises and reform
of public service delivery cooperatives. An indirect benefit will be the facilitation of private investment
in support of growth.
The technical assistance funded by the credit will assist in the drafting of legislative changes and
strengthening of agencies in charge of the financial sector, infrastructure and business regulation, and
privatization to accomplish their responsibilities. The primary beneficiaries will be lenders and
borrowers who benefit from better financial intermediation and consumers receiving better public
services. The secondary beneficiaries will be domestic and foreign investors who will benefit from: the
improvements in the regulatory system in the financial, infrastructure and commercial sectors;
investment opportunities and provision of better goods and services through privatization; and protection
from monopolistic behavior.



Page 9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management. A project management unit (PMU) will be created in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and will be in charge of managing the procurement and disbursement aspects related to
contracting of consultants and the provision of goods and equipment under this project. The PMU will
coordinate the provision of technical assistance services to the beneficiary agencies in accordance with
procedures specified in a project implementation manual (to be completed as a condition of
effectiveness). Beneficiary implementing agencies - ministries, regulatory agencies, the Central Bank -
will be responsible for drafting terms of reference and submitting these to the PMU. The PMU will
ensure that bidding, procurement, contracting, and disbursement takes place within IDA guidelines and
the RPTAC credit agreement. The PMU will also be responsible for preparing specifications for any
equipment that is needed.
The PMU will be headed by a Project Director with demonstrated managerial experience, and comprise a
small team including two procurement experts, two accountants, a systems specialist and one
administrative assistant, two secretaries and one database specialist. A lawyer for the PMU would be
kept on retainer. Per standard procedures in Bolivia, PMU staffwill be hired on one-year extendable
contracts. Training to the PMU's staff would be provided as needed, particularly on World Bank
procurement and disbursement requirements and procedures, and on establishing a financial management
system.
Public Information Campaign: An integral part of the implementation of the Government's reform
program supported by the project will be a public information campaign, with the objective to reach out
to the public and facilitate understanding and consensus among stakeholders. To this end, a public
information advisor in charge of a public information campaign will be financed under the project and
will report to the executing agency and the PMU. With the assistance of short-term experts, the advisor
will identify public perceptions of the regulatory reform and privatization program and develop a
communications strategy to effectively disseminate the objectives and instruments of the program. The
proposed public information campaign will include seminars, conferences and/or workshops with
community groups and service and infrastructure providers and regulators throughout the country and a
television, print, and radio communications campaign.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing. The project will be implemented in accordance with a
detailed project implementation plan, acceptable to IDA, including target dates of actions to be taken and
monitorable indicators. The PMU will be responsible for monitoring project progress and for preparing
quarterly implementation progress reports satisfactory to IDA. The reports will be reviewed by the
Ministry of Finance and submitted to IDA within 30 days of the end of each quarter. In addition to
ongoing supervision and regular supervision missions, there will be joint annual reviews to assess
progress made in the development of legislative and regulatory changes and the privatization program.
Such progress will be used to design an appropriate technical assistance program for the following year.
A mid-term review will provide a comprehensive assessment of the project's progress and recommend
changes where necessary. The PMU would monitor compliance with IDA guidelines on procurement,
credit covenants, budgets, and project accounts (including commitments and disbursements).
A financial management system acceptable to IDA will be put in place in the PMU prior to project
effectiveness. The PMU would establish and maintain project accounts in formats and under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA and have them audited each year in accordance with IDA guidelines by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, furnishing them to IDA within four months of the end of each
fiscal year. The PMU will maintain records and accounts of all transactions relating to the project.
Statements of expenses and financial statements will be provided to IDA, along with the audited project
accounts, within four months after the end of the fiscal year.



Page 10
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Rationale: Self-standing RPTAC. The Government, recognizing that technical assistance was
needed in legal reform and capacity building if the reform was to succeed, requested funds for such
assistance. The project team considered financing this assistance through a project preparation facility
(PPF) for the RPAC, and to not propose a self-standing technical assistance credit. However, a PPF, in
addition to falling far short of total financing needs, would not have been able to finance the technical
assistance needed once the credit was effective. In addition, although hybrid adjustment/technical
assistance projects used to be common, best practice is now to design and implement separate projects.
Also, the Government felt that support from IDA staff during the implementation phase of the reform
program would be better institutionalized in the context of an ongoing and separate RPTAC.
Project Concept: Differentiating the RPTACfrom the RP4C. As originally conceptualized, the technical
assistance provided under the RPTAC was seen as an integral part of the proposed adjustment operation,
having the same project outputs and being processed concurrently. However, while this operation
complements the adjustment operation, it supports broader reforms than the proposed adjustment
operation and focuses on institution-building activities. Conceptually, the technical assistance project's
"output" is the assistance needed to prepare laws and regulations, rather than their passage, while the
adjustment operation's outputs will be the actual passage of such legislation. Finally, the timing of this
operation was advanced so as to meet the deadline for Bolivia's fiscal year 1998 IDA allocation.
Project Design: Single-phase vs. multi-phased project. The project team originally proposed a
comprehensive set of technical assistance activities to assist in drafting legislation and building agency
capacity. However, it was realized that a multi-phased approach was more appropriate for some of the
sub-components. Certain laws are needed, for example, in order to establish some of the institutions to
be strengthened under this project. In addition, the team and Government counterparts agreed that the
technical, legal, and political difficulties associated with privatization and corporatization programs,
combined with limited institutional capacity, made it more practical to phase the privatization program.
That is, enterprises to be privatized and cooperatives to be corporatized will be selected every six months
based on progress achieved in privatizations already underway.
Project Scope: Private Sector Development. The project team discussed with Government the option to
cover the realm of private sector development, including measures to improve the business environment
through customs reform, labor legislation, export development, and entry and exit of businesses. This
option was rejected for this particular project for several reasons: (i) overall, it was felt that the project
would become too complex, involving too many different agencies and sets of legislation; (ii) in the case
of customs and labor legislation, the time horizon for implementing reforms was considerably longer
than envisioned for the project; and (iii) in the cases of streamlining entry and exit procedures and export
development, the Government expects to implement these reforms with the support of other development
agencies.
Project Design: Decentralized Project Management. The project team considered assigning project
management responsibilities to agencies receiving technical assistance through the project. However,
since these agencies are not familiar with IDA procurement, disbursement, and financial management
systems, it would have been extremely difficult to build such capacity in so many different agencies.
Instead, it was felt that it was more efficient to centralize these functions within a neutral party - the
Ministry of Finance - traditionally among the strongest Ministries.



Page I 1
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by IDA and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                      Project              Latest Supervision (Fonn 590)
Ratings
(IDA-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Financial unsustainability, high     Financial Markets and             S                 S
administrative costs, and inadequate  Pension Reform Technical
coverage and service provision of    Assistance Project
pensions. Inadequate regulatory
framework, institutional capacity, and
information systems in the financial
sector.
Strong state involvement and inadequate  Capitalization Program        S                 S
regulatory structures in key         Adjustment Credit
infrastructure sectors. Need to improve
dispute resolution mechanisms and
credit access. Development of a
securities market and support to the
pension system.
Heavy state involvement and limited  Regulatory Reform and             U'                S
institutional capacity, operational  Capitalization Technical
efficiency, and financial performance of  Assistance Project
key infrastructure sectors.
Inefficient management, high costs, and   Power Sector Reform          S                 S
poor service provision in the state-  Technical Assistance
owned electricity sector.            Project
Limited foreign direct investment in the   Hydrocarbon Sector Reform   S                 S
oil and gas sector due to state ownership  and Capitalization Technical
and inappropriate regulatory         Assistance Project
frameworks.
Other development agencies
Inter-American Developmenm Bank      Capitalization Program
(IDB)                                Adjustment Credit
IDB                                  Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization Technical
ICooperation Facility
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project has been designed to take into account the experience of technical assistance operations in
Bolivia. World Bank experience suggests that: (i) regulatory reform and institutional strengthening need
to be supported by an adequate economic policy environment; (ii) operations should be designed within a
' Unsatisfactory rating is due to delays in purchasing telecommunications spectrum monitoring equipment. All
contracts have been recently signed, and equipment is being installed. Project would now receive a satisfactory IP
rating. Development Objectives would remain satisfactory, but high risk remains due to sectoral superintendent
vacancies.



Page 12
broad sectoral context, including a medium-term strategy; (iii) project design should include a realistic
assessment of the counterpart's project implementation capacity; (iv) technical assistance design should
be preceded by careful analysis of institutional factors, including Borrower commitment; (v) Borrowers
should be closely involved from the earliest phases of preparation; (vi) projects should be focused and
limited in breadth and size so as to facilitate achievable objectives; (vii) projects should have well-
defined loan administration/financing arrangements; (viii) technical assistance and training activities to
build institutional capacity only are effective if appropriate staff are selected to receive such training and
turnover is low; and (ix) such projects require a high level of IDA supervision and quick turnaround of
requests.
The issues above have been addressed as follows: (i) the project will be supported by economic policy
conditions specified in the parallel RPAC and the IMF ESAF arrangement; (ii) the operation has been
designed in the context of the overall Country Assistance Strategy; (iii) credit administration/financing
arrangements have been defined and agreed-upon with the Borrower to overcome limited counterpart
project implementation capacity; (iv) the project concept was jointly developed by IDA and the
Government; (v) from initial identification, the Borrower has had the main responsibility for identifying
project objectives and designing the project, and the project has the full support of Government officials
at the highest level; (vi) while the proposed project's scope is considerable, it supports and is consistent
with the reforms envisioned under the RPAC; (vii) a detailed implementation plan has been agreed upon;
(viii) many of these institutions already have well-qualified staff in place (Central Bank, regulatory
authorities); (ix) three subteams of IDA staff have been formed in order to supervise this project
effectively and supervision resources would be combined with those for the adjustment operation to
ensure economies of scale.
Lessons from credit administration in Bolivia have also been addressed. Delays in the procurement of
goods and services have been experienced in previous projects due to weaknesses in the project unit, the
procurement organization, and/or the payment system. This project will aim to remedy this through the
training of professional staff in IDA procedures, the development of operational guidelines prior to
project effectiveness, and close supervision, including use of local staff in the Resident Mission. While
problems with the prompt delivery of audit reports have been experienced in some projects, holding the
audit firm accountable directly to the project unit and IDA has largely resulted in remedying this
difficulty.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Strong Participation in the Project Design Phase. The Government and the agencies concerned have
undertaken much of the preparatory work required for the design of the operation, and a counterpart team
was assigned to accompany the identification mission on a full-time basis. The project appraisal
document (PAD) was written jointly by IDA staff and Government representatives. The proposed scope
and design of the operation are the result of joint working sessions, and were embraced by the Vice
President and the relevant Ministries and agencies.
Public Commitment to Reforms. The proposed project helps to set the stage for the implementation of
policy reforms that form an integral part of the Government's reform program. The Government has
reiterated its commitment to the operation and the reform program in the context of the Consultative
Group Meeting held in Paris in April 1998. During this meeting the international community supported
the Government's program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Catalytic Role in Project Design. IDA staff have played a catalytic role in the design and implementation
of the reform program. The presence of the project team provided an impetus to bring together all the



Page 13
stakeholders in joint meetings. In addition, the Government acknowledged the considerable value-added
of the international experience and expertise of IDA.
Advisory Role in Project Implementation. The international experience and expertise of IDA referred to
above will continue to be critical in the implementation phase, and IDA is expected to take an important
advisory role in project implementation.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: []Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [] Other:
Not applicable.
2. Financial andfiscal impacts
Although the RPTAC will not have a direct fiscal impact, the technical assistance financed by the
operation will help prepare reforms that, if implemented, would: (i) reduce the Government's contingent
fiscal liability of an implicit full guarantee for depositors in the case of bank failures; (ii) raise revenues
from the privatization of state-owned enterprises and from increased tax revenues, and (iii) reduce
potential contingent liabilities from annuities (Bonosol) to be funded by the Capitalization Program.
3. Technical:
Engineering issues may arise when preparing enterprises for privatization or corporatization.
4. Institutional:
Delineation of Responsibilities. As indicated above (Section D. 1), in some cases there are overlapping
responsibilities of the agencies in charge of implementing the reform measures supported by this project.
Hence, assigning lead agencies for reforms will require skillful coordination and persuasion by the
Ministry of Finance, supported by IDA. A fully-staffed PMU within the Ministry of Finance, funded
through the project, will act as the coordinator between concerned ministries and agencies, IDA, and
consultants and trainers. Project implementation will be helped significantly by the fact that Government
staff have played a lead role in the development of this reform strategy and are fully committed to its
implementation. Agreements have been reached on the staffing of the PMU.
5. Social:
Because the proposed project is a technical assistance operation, no social issues need to be directly
addressed. One key area in which the proposed project could have a social impact is in privatization of
public sector enterprises. In order to address this issue, the related regulatory reforms supported by the
project and the privatization process will be designed to minimize any expected negative impacts. For
example, the public information campaign will solicit continual feedback from stakeholders to be taken
into consideration when designing specific parts of the program.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   [x] B    I C
This project is solely technical assistance and capacity building and will have no direct negative impact
on the environment. Indirect impacts are expected from support to: (i) infrastructure regulation
(including introduction of concessions laws and regulations in transport); and (ii) infrastructure



Page 14
privatization, in particular, divestiture of the national hydrocarbon company's remaining activities.
In order to mitigate possible indirect environmental impacts, international environmental consultants will
be hired under the proposed project. The environmental consultants will review relevant legislation
prepared with the assistance of this projects, as well as review as needed enterprises to be privatized.
The consultants will then classify the enterprises according to the Bank's environmental categories. Any
enterprise with an "A" rating will automatically be subject to an environmental audit/site assessment and,
when appropriate, a mitigation study; the bidding documents and contracts for the new private owners
will specify the concerned parties' environmental obligations and penalties for non-compliance. The
environmental consultants will work directly for the Vice-Minister in charge of the privatization
program. However, environmental audits and parts of contracts dealing with environmental issues will
be cleared with the Ministry in charge of environmental matters and - in the case of the energy sector-
with the Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons. Terms of Reference for the environmental
consultants are included as Attachment 2 to Annex 2. The environmental unit of the Vice Ministry is
well established and supported by two ongoing IDA projects. The environmental ministry is being
supported by a large IDB project.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
As described above (section D.5), the direct recipients of technical assistance (i.e. the agencies receiving
technical assistance) have played a leading role in the development of both the overall Government
reform strategy and the detailed reform and technical assistance measures. Their commitment to the
reforms has been a necessary precondition to both this project and the proposed accompanying
adjustment credit.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The reforms supported by the proposed technical assistance are designed to promote the long-term
viability of the financial sector, efficient and sustainable infrastructure services, and a competitive
business environment. The assistance to the financial sector-strengthening banking regulations,
improving banking supervision and instituting resolution mechanisms-is designed to prevent bank
failures and near failures that have threatened to destabilize the system as a whole. Improvements in the
operations of the pension system, insurance, and capital markets will strengthen public support for the
systems and encourage their long-term viability. Regulatory reforms in the real sector will encourage
improved infrastructure service provision and cost-recovery, as well as promote more efficient
production and support competition, which in turn will promote the long-term sustainability of services.
The project will directly support the sustainability of reforms through the funding of a public information
campaign, which will be designed to promote public understanding of and consensus among stakeholders
on the objectives and benefits of the proposed reforms.



Page 15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Government commitment to regulatory                M         Continuous dialogue; public
strengthening and institutional development may              information campaign to explain
weaken.                                                      regulatory functions; establishment of
local regulatory offices to handle
complaints and develop local support;
forthcoming adjustment operation and
institutional development APL.
Successful opposition to tariff reforms may         S        Public information campaign and
endanger long-term sustainability of infrastructure         training of regulatory staff.
services.
Private management and investment may fail to       S        Strong, independent regulatory
improve delivery of infrastructure services.                 agencies with power to impose
sanctions (e.g. withdraw concessions)
in case of non-compliance with
contractually mandated service
standards
Congress may oppose relevant legislation;           S        Public information campaign to explain
Ministries may oppose approval and issuance of               importance of legislation; adjustment
regulations and norrns.                                      operation to support key legislative
reforms.
Insufficient private-sector interest in investment in  L     Hiring of good financial advisors.
state-owned enterprises is generated.
Regulatory authorities of public-service            L        Contracting out such supervision
cooperatives may lack sufficient capacity for                responsibilities to independent
supervision of concession contracts.                         consulting firms.
Government commitment to privatize state-owned     M         Public information campaign to help
enterprises and to transform local public service            design the privatization program in a
cooperatives weakens.                                        manner to take account of stakeholder
concems.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The credit may not be approved or effective prior to  M      PPF funds should last until December
PPF funds running out.                                       1998. Congress resumes in August
1998., giving the Government
sufficient time to introduce this
legislation.
Hiring of experienced PMU staff and consultants    M         Interviews for potential staff already
may be delayed.                                              underway. Hiring of key staff is a
condition of effectiveness.
Key Government officials involved in the design    M         The Vice President is among the key
and implementation of this operation may leave               architects of this reform program
Government or change responsibilities
Adequate counterpart budgetary resources are not   M         Forthcoming adjustment operation
allocated.                                                   should ease fiscal constraints.
Overall Risk Rating     S       I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
Financial Sector: Banks may object to provisions to strengthen the financial sector, particularly
regulations to ensure capital adequacy and loan classification and provisioning. Banks may also object
to features of the DGF, such as mandatory participation and limits to the amount of account protection.
In addition, the introduction of a viable option to transfer proceeds from the capitalization program may
be interpreted by current beneficiaries as a means of reducing their benefits.
Infrastructure and Business Regulation: Changes in infrastructure and business regulation may be
opposed by enterprises that currently enjoy a monopoly or dominant position. The same holds true for
changes to the competitive environment.
Privatization: Privatization of public sector enterprises may provoke objection from organized labor,
who fear that privatization endangers employment. Reform of public service cooperatives may be
opposed by insiders benefiting from the current situation including management and labor.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Condition
A project implementation plan will be completed by Government counterparts.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Establishment of the PMU and hiring of a project director and key project staff.
* A financial management assessment will have taken place and a financial management system will
be operational.
* Government and IDA approval of a Project Implementation Manual.
3. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Disbursement Conditions:
v Disbursements for activities with beneficiary institutions outside central Government will require
agreements between project counterparts and beneficiary institutions.
*  Disbursement of institution-building funds for the DGF will require the passage of relevant laws and
regulations needed to establish this entity.
*  Disbursement of institution-building funds for the new competition/consumer protection agency will
require the passage of relevant laws and regulations needed to establish this entity.
*  Disbursement of privatization component will require an agreed list of enterprises and cooperatives,
prioritized by economic importance.
Other:
* Annual program of non-privatization activities will be agreed with IDA. After each annual review,
the next year's action plan will be adjusted as needed.
* Government and IDA would agree on privatization and cooperative reform action plans every six
months.



Page 17
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
l. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader / Task Manager: Susan    ark    /            Peu
[signature]
Sector Director: Danny Leipziger
[signature]
Acting Country Direct        May



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Bolivia: Regulatory Reforn and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Encourage private investment    Increase private                                     Continued regional and
investment/GDP                                         intemational economic
growth
Development Objectives:                                                              (Objective to Goal)
1. Strengthen the stability and    Banking sector:       Implementation progress     Absence of extemal
efficiency of the financial sector  (i) improved enforcement of    reports           macroeconomic/financial
prudential oversight;                                  sector stocks
(ii) orderly consolidation of
banks, including resolution of                          Continued sound
nonviable entities;                                     macroeconomic
(iii) improved transparency and                        performance
intemal and extemal
governance
Non-banking financial sector:
(i) improved supervisory
capacity and coordination;
(ii) increased depth of capital
markets and insurance coverage
2. Improved coverage, quality,   Non-govemment investment in  Implementation progress  Foreign direct investment
and productivity of key      national infrastructure/GDP  reports                   is attracted to Bolivia
infrastructure services, with  increases from 1998 level
appropriate tariff structures
Changes in market structure
reflecting greater competition
3. Promote improved provision   Numbers of privatizations or    Implementation progress  Private sector and
of goods and services through    concessions of state-owned  reports                reformed cooperatives
the privatization of state-owned   enterprises. Revenues                             have incentives and
enterprises and the reform of  generated through                                     capacity to meet
public-service cooperatives  privatizations                                          investment needs
Increased private investment in
local public service providers



Page 2                                                       Annex I
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Second-Level Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
1. I A functioning effective  DGF established with capable    Supervision and           Continued government
Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF)   staff and adequate resources;    implementation progress  commitment to
with failure resolution capacities  CONFIP meetings and issuance  reports               regulatory strengthening
and a capable independent body   of norms                                               and institutional
(CONFIP) for the issuance of                                                            development
norms.
1.2 Independent, capable      Financial sector regulatory
regulatory agencies in the    agencies established with
financial sector with adequate    capable staff and adequate
legal means to supervise the  resources
sector.
2.1 Well functioning          Independent regulatory        Supervision and              Tariff structures are
independent agencies for      agencies for                  implementation progress     adjusted in line with
infrastructure and consumer   telecommunications, power,    reports                     economic costs of
protection.                   hydrocarbons, transport and                                infrastructure services
water well-staffed with
adequate budgets
3.1 Sale of remaining assets of                             Supervision and              Private management and
YPFB, ENDE, ENFE and other                                  implementation progress     investment improve
state-owned companies.                                      reports                      delivery of infrastructure
services
3.2 Improved service provision
by public-service cooperatives
or corporate transformation of
cooperatives including the
attraction of private investment
First-Level Outputs
Financial Sector Regulation
1.1 Provision of technical    Draft laws prepared acceptable  Implementation reports and    Congressional approval
assistance to help draft laws and  to IDA                   project supervision          of laws acceptable to
regulations to:                                                                          IDA
a) Establish a Deposit
Guarantee Fund
b) Strengthen prudential
regulations, improve
transparency and governance of
financial institutions; improve
the environment for attracting
foreign capital to financial
institutions, and create a
framework for the supervision
of risks.



Page 3                                                        Annex I
Narrative Summary          Key Perfoiiance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
c) Create a coordinating body
responsible for issuing norms
governing the fnancial sector
(CONFIP)
d) Improve functioning of the
insurance industry and
regulatory oversight.
1.2 Provision of technical    Draft regulations prepared     Implementation reports and    Ministerial approval and
assistance to help draft       acceptable to IDA             project supervision          issuance of regulations
regulations and norms to:                                                                 and norms.
a) Improve functioning of the
capital markets
b) Improve functioning and
oversight of the pension funds
1.3 Provision of training and
technical assistance to
strengthen the institutional
capacity of regulatory
authorities in the financial sector(
(banking, pensions, insurance,
capital markets)
Infrastructure and Business
Regulation
2.1 Provision of technical     Draft laws and regulations    Implementation reports and    Congressional approval
assistance to help draft laws and   prepared acceptable to IDA  project supervision       of laws acceptable to
regulations to:                                                                           IDA; Ministerial
approval and issuance of
a) Promote competition/                                                                   regulations and norms.
consumer protection
b) Clarify oversight
responsibilities of SIRESE and
improve coordination between
the Executive Branch and the
regulatory body.
c) Clarify administrative
procedures
d) Clarify roles and
responsibilities in the transport
sector
e) Promote transport
concessions
f) Establish rules for the
operation of the hydrocarbons
sector



Page 4                                                    Annex I
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
g) Establish rules for
competition in PCS
h) Prepare regulations for
market opening in year
2001
Privatizatton
Provision of technical assistance
to:
a) Bring SOEs to the point of    Published offers for sale  Implementation reports and    Sufficient private sector
sale.                                                     project supervision.       interest in investment in
remaining state-owned
enterprises.
b) Evaluate local public service   Finished evaluations, including                   Political will to privatize
cooperatives and agree on    benchmarking against                                    SOEs and to transform
corporate transformation and  performance targets; number of                         local public service coops
attraction of private investment.  Cooperatives restructured                         into efficient entities is
maintained.
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each                                (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for    component, including Project
project description)         Preparation Facility allocations;
see Annex 2 for description of
inputs for each component)
Financial Sector Regulation  US$ 4.56 M                                              Congressional approval
*  Banking Sector                                                                    of this credit and
*  Non-Banking Financial                                                             effectiveness prior to PPF
Sector                                                                           funds running out.
Infrastructure and Business  US$ 4.47 M                                              Timely contracting of
Regulation                                                                           experienced PMU staff
*  Cross-Sectoral and                                                                and consultants
Competition Regulatory
Reform                                                                           Low turnover of key
*  Sector-Specific Regulatory                                                        Government officials
Reform                                                                           who designed this
operation and are in
Privatization                USS 5.51 M                                              charge of implementation
*  Divestiture of State-Owned
Enterprises                                                                      Allocation of adequate
*  Public Service Cooperatives                                                       counterpart budgetary
Reform                                                                           resources
Program Implementation       US$ 3.46 M
Support
* Project Management Unit
*  Public Information
Campaign
Other
*  Unallocated               US$ 2.0 M



Annex 2
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
Project Component 1
Financial Sector
Total Cost US$5.76 million; Credit Support US$4.56 million
Sub-Component 1: Banking Sector (Total Cost: $4.38 million; Credit Support: $3.18 million)
Background: Following a financial liberalization phase associated with the macroeconomic stabilization
efforts of the second half of the 1980s, Bolivia introduced important financial sector reforms during the
1990s. It modernized the legal framework through the banking law of April 1993 and the new Central
Bank law (which contained substantial modifications to the banking law) of October 1995 and it closed
all state-owned banks by 1993. With regard to prudential norms, it improved the capital adequacy
standards, introduced stringent limits on loans to one borrower, prohibited loans to related parties,
improved disclosure requirements, tightened accounting practices, and began clarifying asset
classification rules.
Simultaneously, as is widely recognized throughout Latin America, the quality of supervision in Bolivia
was notably enhanced. The supervisory agency (which became again a separate institution from the
Central Bank in late-1987) raised the skill level of its staff through intensive training and better human
resource management policies; introduced improvements in off-site and on-site supervision (although the
latter has remained focused on assessing credit risk only); developed better data collection and reporting
systems (including the establishment of an electronic debtor information network shared with an
increasing set of financial institutions); and, as it faced harsh opposition by certain powerful lobbies of
banks under liquidation, the Executive Branch made increasing efforts to protect the integrity of the
regulatory system.
T his progress notwithstanding, Bolivia has continued to exhibit difficulties in dealing with troubled
banks, with the associated resolution processes often having been entangled in cumbersome operational
and legal proceedings. It has also proven difficult for the authorities to prevent episodes of deterioration
of confidence in the banking system while managing the rehabilitation, exit, or resolution of troubled
financial institutions. The recent phase of banking system turbulence that surfaced in 1994 had as a first
consequence the liquidation of two banks. As a result of the systemic risk created by the subsequent
problems faced in 1995 by five medium and large banks, the Government decided to create the Fondo de
Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero y Apoyo al Sector Productivo (FONDESIF).
FONDESIF's purpose was to help increase the capital base of banks in the system. Its resources came
mainly from the Central Bank (US$40 million), CAF (US$100 million) and the IDB (US$55 million).
The World Bank provided technical assistance funds. Its main instruments were: (i) subordinated loans
(which could be counted as capital in the receiving entity and were payable only through capital
increases); (ii) long-term liquidity loans; and (iii) the purchase of bad loans at book value (after
appropriate provisions were applied so as to reduce shareholders capital before access to FONDESIF
resources). FONDESIF was authorized to provide assistance to financial intermediaries subject to: (i)
the presentation of a Financial Rehabilitation Plan with a favorable opinion of the SBEF as regards its
viability; (ii) appropriate increases in provisions and balance sheet adjustments necessary to reflect the
true health of the institution; and (iii) the increase of capital by old or new owners pari passu with the
capital injected by FONDESIF.



Page 2                                   Annex 2
FONDESIF served a useful purpose given the fragile circumstances, but it also had inherent limitations.
Its capital reinforcement and rehabilitation operations covered six undercapitalized banks, which were
rehabilitated without endangering systemic stability.2 The largest operations occurred in three banks
(Banco Boliviano Americano, BHN Multibanco, and Banco Uni6n), all of which included the entry of
capital into the system. However, FONDESIF's limitations included the fact that it was an ad-hoc crises
management tool, which capital reinforcement capacity had to rely solely on the voluntary decision of
bank owners and administrators to approach it. Consistent with its transitional nature, FONDESIF's
authority to engage in operations to assist undercapitalized or structurally illiquid banks expired at the
end of March 1998. Additionally, FONDESIF did not prove to be a sufficiently apt mechanism for loss
control, allocation and absorption, partly because it did not have full legal grounding to justify its role.
In effect, it was not created by Law but via Supreme Decree, and lacking an explicit mandate to insure
deposits, it could not justify the right to unilaterally intervene troubled banks and resolve failing ones.
More recently, at the end of 1997, the authorities decided to liquidate another fairly large bank, BIDESA,
after months of failed attempts at rehabilitation in which the bank failed to comply with the requirements
made by the FONDESIF in order to inject much needed funds in the bank. Despite the progress made
under the FONDESIF umbrella in terms of improving capital strength in the system, the liquidation of
BIDESA again pushed to the surface the lingering vulnerability of the Bolivian banking system to
sudden episodes of confidence erosion. The long-standing practice of the authorities to guarantee all the
bank's liabilities in previous crisis had created an implicit Government guarantee of 100% of bank
liabilities. Thus, a few weeks after the Central Bank announcement that BIDESA's depositors were to
receive immediate payment only up to US$5,000, there was a run on one of Bolivia's largest banks. To
curb contagion, the authorities felt obliged to revert back to a substantial depositor protection,
committing to pay BIDESA's liabilities above US$5,000 with zero-coupon dollar denominated bonds,
with greater maturities for larger amounts.3
Financial system soundness is crucial to the effectiveness of the broader reform effort and is essential to
macroeconomic stability, the sustainability of economic growth and poverty alleviation. The events and
issues described above have revealed a need to, on the one hand, strengthen the institutional and legal
framework for resolution policies to deal with troubled institutions in an orderly, fast and non-
destibilizing manner and, on the other hand, to improve the prudential regulations and enforcement
capabilities of the supervisory authorities. These needs require significant legal, normative and
institutional reforms.
This reform effort will be packaged as a coherent whole, emphasizing the interaction and mutually
reinforcing effects of the key reforms. These reforms, which are to be included in the structural
adjustment credit under preparation in the Bank, will need the support of the technical assistance credit
during preparation of the reforms as well as in the implementation phase. The main reforms to be carried
2Through its various instruments FONDESIF injected US$173 million into the system, to which must be added
US$53 million in loan purchases by the Central Bank in the case of one of the assisted banks, for a total of US$226
million. The net cost is, of course, not yet known, as it will depend on the recovery of loans that FONDESIF
granted and on the proceeds from the resolution of residual assets by the Central Bank.
Deposit holders of BIDESA received the following repayment scheme from the Central Bank:
Between $0 and $5,000: Cash
Between $5,000 and $30,000: 2-year zero-coupon bond
Between $30,000 and $100.000: 3-year zero coupon bond
Between $100.000 and S200.000: 4-year zero coupon bond
Over $200,000: 4.5-year zero coupon bond for 50% of the excess over $200,000. The other 50% will only
be paid with any excess proceeds from the liquidation process after the Central Bank and other creditors have been
fully repaid (this excess will almost certainly be zero).



Page 3                                   Annex 2
out with the support of the technical assistance credit are imbedded in a number of laws and regulations.
The reforms will address the following issues:
*  The creation of an explicit and limited deposit insurance funded via premia paid by financial
intermediaries and with access to a contingent line of credit from the Ministry of Finance, payable
through future premia. The deposit insurance will be provided by a Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF)
and will have failure resolution capabilities in order to deal effectively with failing banks.
*  Substantial improvements in the capacity for early detection of bank problems.
*  Clear prompt corrective action rules, entailing enforcement measures that are more stringent the
greater the deterioration of the situation of a troubled financial institution.
*  Central Bank's lender of last resort facilities circumscribed only to liquidity (not solvency) problems.
*  A significantly enhanced prudential oversight by the official sector, especially by moving towards
international standards in areas that still exhibit deficiencies, particularly:
0 Asset classification, provisioning and capital adequacy;
0 Legal and regulatory framework to enable the consolidated supervision of financial
conglomerates;
0 Control of non-credit risks (exchange rate, interest rate and liquidity risks); and
0 Licensing practices based on well-defined fit-and-proper requirements.
* A substantially improved environment for non-official internal and external governance, which will
include:
0 More stringent disclosure requirements and accounting standards;
0 Well defined responsibilities for external auditors, internal auditors, asset appraisers and boards
of directors; and
0 Introduction of credit rating agencies for financial institutions.
*  The removal of obstacles for the entry of foreign banks.
*  Adequate legal protection for bank supervisors against suits arising from the conduct of their official
duties.
*  Institutional arrangements that would guarantee the autonomy of the supervisory agency while
allocating functions appropriately. The responsibilities on issuing prudential norms will be
transferred from the Central Bank to an independent normative committee (CONFIP: Comite de
Normas Financieras de Prudencia) that will be composed of the superintendent of banks, the
superintendent of pensions, insurance and capital markets, the president of the Central Bank and a
representative of the Ministry of Finance.
The timing and sequencing of the reforms is a critical issue that must be addressed carefully. A front-
loaded two-phase approach is required to carry out the consolidation of the banking system in an orderly
manner, so. that, on the one hand, the risk of a general run on deposits is minimized in the current
environment and, on the other, the moral hazard related to a high level of deposit insurance, is adequately
counterbalanced. The law will indeed have a high level of deposit insurance which is required given the
still low credibility of the financial system after the recent banking crises. However, the law will also set
a date for the reduction of the deposit insurance to a predetermined level, something that can only be
done once the credibility of the system is restored. During this pre-defined transition period, the moral
hazard will be minimized by the improved prudential normative environment, the greater enforcement



Page 4                                   Annex 2
capabilities of the SBEF and the failure resolution capabilities of the DGF, all of which will enable the
authorities to take early action on troubled banks, force stronger banks to consolidate their capital base
(through the entrance of new local or foreign capital) and eventually force weaker banks out of the
system, either by being absorbed by larger banks or by being liquidated. Once this consolidation process
is carried out (and it will have to be carried out given the stricter regulatory environment) and the
credibility restored, the reduction of the level of deposit insurance will be done without provoking any
instability in the system.
Technical Assistance:
Establishment of DGF and General Advisory Services (Total Cost: $715,000; Credit Support: $715,000).
The establishment of the DGF requires, first of all, the drafting of the adequate legal reforms by a legal
team including: (i) a foreign law firm or individual with a well-established knowledge of the legal
design requirements (from countries in which a similar institution has been sufficiently tested such as the
US or Spain); (ii) a local law firm or individual with knowledge of the legal environment and practices
of the local financial system ;and (iii) financial experts with adequate experience in the matter Once the
law is drafted, funds will be used for the institutional development, including systems requirements and
training of personnel.
Improvement of Prudential Legal and Regulatory Framework (Total Cost $358,000; Credit Support
$358,000). A crucial component of the reform is the issuance of new legal and regulatory changes that
will: (i) align with international standards the prudential regulations regarding capital adequacy,
provisioning and asset classification; (ii) improve the transparency and governance of financial
institutions; (iii) improve the environment for the entrance of foreign capital in financial institutions; and
(iv) create a framework for supervising conglomerate groups, interest rate risks and exchange rate risks.
For drafting these changes, support from short-term consultants with experience in financial sector
regulations will be required . Funds will also be required for training of the enforcement agency.
Restructuring of the Supervisory and Regulatory Institutional Framework (Total Cost: $175,600; Credit
Support: $175,600). The creation of the CONFIP and the elimination of the private right of action
against officials of the superintendencies, Central Bank and DGF must be included in new laws to be
passed by Congress. The technical assistance credit will support the drafting of these laws as well as the
initial legal and technical requirements of the CONFIP. In certain cases funds will also be required for
equipment acquisition.
Enhancement of SBEF Supervisory Functions (Total Cost: $2.97 million; Credit Support: $1.77 million).
The legal and normative changes to be carried out must be complemented by the strengthening of the
SBEF, the enforcement agency of those new prudential norms. The technical assistance credit will
support programs to: (i) strengthen the enforcement tools; (ii) improve methodologies for early warning
signals; (iii) improve the capacity for prompt corrective action; (iv) improve the SBEF's hardware and
software information systems; (v) update the operating manuals and procedures; (vi) continue the
training of personnel; and (vii) strengthen non-banking supervision.
Redefinition of Central Bank's Lender of Last Resort Facilities (Total Cost: $108,000; Credit Support:
$108,000). The role of the Central Bank as provider of liquidity to the financial intermediaries will be
defined in the Law to restrict itself to temporary liquidity problems as opposed to chronic liquidity or
solvency problems. The technical assistance credit will support the Central Bank in the development of
the procedures and manuals as well as in the training of personnel in order to make sure that its role as
lender of last resort is adequately carried out. In certain cases funds will also be required for equipment
acquisition.



Page 5                                  Annex 2
Sub-Component: Non-Banking Sector (Total Cost: $1.38 million; Credit Support: $1.38 million)
The non-banking sector sub-component of the Technical Assistance Credit addresses issues related to
pensions, insurance and capital markets. These three sectors have been grouped together, reflecting the
Government's intention to create a single superintendency (SPVS) which will be the result of the merger
of the three sectorial superintendencies currently in existence.
Background:
Pensions: On November 29, 1996 the Bolivian Government adopted a pension reform law (Law 1732)
that fundamentally modified the country's pension system. The reform immediately closed the defined-
benefit publicly-managed pension system and replaced it with a defined-contribution privately-managed
system with individual capitalized accounts.
The pensions granted in the old system by a public agency (FOPEBA) and 38 complementary funds will
be paid by the Treasury. In addition workers will receive compensatory pensions for their contributions
to the old system that will also have to be paid by the Treasury. This has had significant fiscal effects
that are compounded by a reduction of fiscal revenues due to modifications in the hydrocarbons tax
regime. Government paper is currently financing the former pension system, absorbing most of the
resources managed by the Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones (AFPs).
While current institutional capacity and regulations have been adequate to begin implementation of the
system, improved regulation, oversight and supervision by the Pension Superintendency will be required
as resources managed by the AFP become available for investment in private sector instruments. To this
end, the Government intends to: (i) issue additional regulations, including investment rules, credit rating
requirements and market access regulations; and (ii) strengthen the supervisory agency, including
development of operating procedures and training of staff.
Insurance: The private insurance sector in Bolivia is under-developed and has traditionally confined its
activities to insurance needs of public enterprises. The supervisory authority established by the
Government lacks the capacity to supervise a modern private insurance industry. This has not posed a
problem since, until now, effective control of the industry has been provided through the efforts of a
couple of competent local insurance brokers, working with major international reinsurance companies.
As part of the pension reform initiatives, important "social" insurance programs are to be turned over to
the private sector. In fact, the premiums for death, disability, and workers' compensation coverages are
already being collected by the AFPs, with the intention that they will remit the premiums for these types
of insurance to private sector insurance companies.
However, as a result of the perceived weakness of the regulatory and supervisory system for insurance
companies, the transfer of these premiums to the private sector has been delayed. The plan is to arrange
a competitive bidding process to see what private sector companies are given the privilege of insuring
these mandatory coverages. This bidding process will not occur until the authorities are satisfied that the
insurance supervisory mechanism has the necessary strength and until the system has identified at least
six private insurance companies that operate in Bolivia and possess the necessary resources, both
financial and human, to operate these social insurance plans in a satisfactory manner. This delay is very
prudent since, based on assessments of the companies in the market and the types of insurance products
presently available, there are no companies presently operating in Bolivia that could safely deliver these
types of insurance as a substitute for state-operated delivery of the programs.



Page 6                                  Annex 2
The authorities will shortly place before Congress a new Law on Insurance that corresponds to modem
practices. It will then be necessary to launch a comprehensive program for the strengthening of the
supervisory agency that will include components to develop new procedures for analysis and financial
reporting, recruit staff with the necessary types of expertise, particularly actuarial skills, and provide a
program of training to prepare the staff to manage a genuine insurance supervisory system.
Capital Markets: Although a regulated securities market has been operating since 1989 (with stock
exchanges in La Paz and Santa Cruz), trading volume remains small, regulations are weak, and there is
little transparency or information disclosure. Moreover, the Government has prepared a new law (the
Popular Property and Credit Law) to replace the annuities funded by the shares from capitalization
(Bonosol) with individual shares' accounts for an investment fund, as provided for under the
capitalization law. It is expected that the regulations and institutional arrangements for implementation
of the new program will be approved shortly.
The full implementation of the capitalization program, along with the new Popular Property and Credit
Program, will result in an increase in equity trading in the stock market. The supervisory agency will
likely be challenged by greater price share volatility, greater opportunities for price manipulation, insider
trading and a shallow secondary market. Other issues include a lack of custody, clearing and settlement
arrangements, as well as a lack of an adequate way to assess the quality of individual debt obligations or
the credit standing of their issuers - there is no credit rating service or agency available to investors.
The Government has begun to respond to these challenges already, and with IDA assistance has prepared
a new Securities Law ratified by Congress in March 1998. The Government intends to strengthen the
supervisory agency's rules and regulations, upgrade supervisory capacity, implement a staff training
program and improve the computerization of the agency.
Technical Assistance:
Redefinition of Supervisory Institutional Structure (Total Cost: $300,000, Credit Support: $300,000).
The Technical Assistance will support: (i) consultants to provide assistance in the development of
operating manuals, coordinating procedures, drafting regulating procedures and drafting the
superintendency's bylaws; and (ii) acquisition and development of information systems for the overall
oversight and coordination of the pension, capital markets and insurance intendencies.
Enhancement of the Insurance Industry Supervisory Agency (Total Cost $300,000; Credit Support
$300,000) An international consultant would be retained for an initial period to review the laws and
regulations to be applied by the office. The consultant would be expected to guide the process of
reconciling the regulations under the Law on Pensions and those being prepared for the Law on
Insurance. The consultant would design a plan of action that would include special projects in a number
of key areas:
Workers compensation: there is a need to establish standards for operations of companies, claims
handling, and actuarial work in connetion with prices and reserving;
Investments: there is a need to prepare detailed specifications for regulations and resolutions by the
supervisor that will govern the investment activities of companies;
Accounting: there is a need to develop appropriate standards for financial reporting as well as a plan
de cuentas that is to be followed by all companies;



Page 7                                 Annex 2
Actuarial services: there is a need to establish the standards that must be applied by companies in the
preparation of their premium rates and establishment of mathematical reserves. A special aspect of
this will relate to the workers' compensation and mandatory automobile insurance lines.
Medical expertise: Medical expertise will need to be added to the office of the supervisor. These
experts will assist with the adjudication of claims that involve a determination of the existence and the
likely duration of a disabling condition.
Audit and Inspection: Procedures to be followed by staff of the supervisor's office in carrying out on-
site inspections of supervised companies.
Financial analysis: Staff will need to perform analysis based on information supplied by companies
and, using this analysis, identify those companies that should be subject to further scrutiny, perhaps
by inspection.
Information Systems: Information systems will be an essential part of the tools of the supervisor's
office. Such systems can be designed to facilitate communication with the industry. In addition, they
will be indispensible in establishing effective methods for financial analysis. Information systems
technology can also be applied to simplify the gathering of company-specific data as well as to
prepare the publications that the supervisor will want to distribute to the general public.
Funds will also be available for carrying out training activities.
Enhancement of the Pension and Capital Markets Supervisory Frameworks (Total Cost $781,000; Credit
Support $781,000). Support for Pensions and Capital Market will include the following areas:
Operating Procedures: Short-term consultants would be contracted to develop operating procedures.
These would include: supervision procedures for AFPs, agents and brokers; procedures for affiliation
and transfer of pension fund members; investment procedures and supervision procedures; testing
mechanisms; program and documentation requirements. In addition, the consultants would be
responsible for developing an accounting and financial control system on which the development of
computerization (below) would draw upon.
Oversight and Control Systems: A second phase in the development of a computerized tracking,
oversight and control system would be financed under the Credit. Principal modules would be control
of investments, benefits, commissions and costs; cross-checking of the identity of beneficiaries and
the internal accounting system of the Superintendency of pensions.
Development of Regulatory Norms: The Credit would support follow-up visits to review and revise
norms developed in association with the Intendency of Pensions above as necessary based on the
version of the Pension Law enacted and experience in implementation.
Training: Assistance would be provided through short-and long-term consultants providing training
to the Intendency of Pensions staff in: (i) pension accounting and financial management; (ii) account
tracking, financial reporting, and reconciliation procedures; (iii) evaluation of pension fund solvency
and liquidity needs; (iv) review of sales agents' compliance with operating requirements; (v) special
training in tracking passive fund pension accounts; and (vii) evaluation of portfolio investments of
pension funds.
Review and Improvement of Capital Market Regulations: Assistance under the credit will be
provided by external consultants to: (i) revise existing rulings to strengthen and adapt them to the new



Page 8                                      Annex 2
law; (ii) draft rulings on requirements for equity insurance, capital requirements for issuers, brokerage
margin lending, audit requirements for issuers, mutual fund regulations, and rules for risk rating
agencies; (iii) draft rulings on new financial instruments and requirements derived from the
capitalization and pension reform process; and (iv) issue norms for approval and regulation of a
central depository and clearing system.
Institutional Restructuring An international consultant would be contracted to do an assessment of
the existing structure of the Capital Markets Supervisory Agency, project regulatory needs in the
securities market, and evaluate the impact of capitalization, and develop a detailed institutional
restructuring program. Such a report would include: (i) an analysis of current staff and future
requirements; (ii) an assessment of the current organizational structure and preparation of
modifications to this structure, as necessary; (iii) preparation ofjob descriptions and salary structures
for key positions; (iv) definition of revised budgetary projection procedures, including fee setting; and
(v) definition of supervision objectives and criteria. Separate assistance will be contracted for: (i)
preparation of offsite analysis procedures and a manual; (ii) preparation of on-site inspection
procedures and a manual; and (iii) revision of the accounts manual for financial reporting purposes by
agents, brokers, and issuers.
Upgrading Supervision and Inspection Procedures for the Capital Markets: Consultants will be hired
to prepare: (i) manuals for examination procedures of brokerage firms and bourses; (ii) revised chart
of accounts for exchanges and brokerage houses (iii) a manual for financial analysis of brokerage
houses; and (iv) guidelines to assess quality of issue proposals. A long-term consultant would be
hired to strengthen the supervision of issuers and traders of shares and American Depository Receipts
(ADRs).



Page 9                                  Annex 2
Project Component 2
Infrastructure and Business Regulations
Total Cost US$ 6.11 million; Credit Support US$ 4.47 million
Background:
Bolivia's infrastructure sectors were dramatically restructured by previous governments. Most state-
owned companies were privatized. State-run monopolies were split up and 'capitalized', reforms which
revolutionized the utilities sectors. These reforms led to a boom in investment in the infrastructure
sectors last year. At the same time, the government established an independent regulatory system called
SIRESE to oversee the newly capitalized companies and other operators in these sectors. The SIRESE
structure comprises a Superintendent General and five Sector Superintendents each responsible for
regulating a specific sector (electricity, water and sanitation, transport, hydrocarbons and
telecommunications). The SIRESE system is funded by levies on the industries it regulates. Safeguards
of the independence of SIRESE include a clear process for appointing superintendents, restrictions on
arbitrary removal during fixed terms, the fact that appeals do not go to the Executive Branch, and access
to ear-marked funding.
Complementary to these reforms, the Government seeks to develop and implement competition policies
for the entire economy. At present, there is no unified legal and institutional framework to promote
competition or consumer protection. General provisions on competition are found in the Constitution
and in the Investment Law, while the SIRESE Law provides for specific treatment of restrictive
agreements, abusive practices and mergers in some sectors. The Government plans to introduce a new
umbrella law for all sectors and develop accompanying institutional arrangements for its implementation.
At the outset, it would provide for a minimum set of competition and consumer protection regulations
and an administrative structure that could be expanded as needs arise. The law would also ensure
compatability with competition provisions under existing laws, and consider comparable laws of major
trade partners such as MERCOSUR.
One of the issues in the development of the SIRESE regulatory institutions has been the conflicts of
interest and some lack of clarity regarding the role of oversight (fiscalization) as defined in the SIRESE
law and who should conduct this activities. Oversight of the Sectoral Superintendents is undertaken by
the Superintendent General, but gives rise to a potential conflict of interest because the Superintendent
General has to monitor the Sectoral Superintendents on a day to day basis and yet act as a second
instance of appeal when companies reject a decision of one of the Sectoral Superintendents. One
alternative that is being explored is to transfer SIRESE's General Superintendency's oversight
responsibilities to the government's general comptroller's office.
The second issue is the absence of clear rules on the procedures for the promulgation of new norms,
including the decision on which government agencies issue norms and the fact that the issuance of norms
is done without sufficient consultation. A mechanism that would allow coordination and consultation of
the interested and knowledgable parties is thought to be a useful reform. To this end, the Government
intends to establish a consultative body that would coordinate and liaise between the executive branch
and Superintendents on the drafting and promulgation of new norms and ensure regular exchange of
information for the purposes of policy-making and enforcement. This consultative body would consult
with interested stakeholders before new norms were enacted. An amendment of the SIRESE law would
establish this consultative body.
The third issue is the lack of an Administrative Procedures law, which also affects all functions of
government. The Administrative Procedures law will define the process of administrative procedures for



Page 10                                   Annex 2
decision-making and appeals and allow citizens to take legal action when these procedures are violated
or when decisionmaking is not timely. It should increase the responsiveness of government and reduce
corruption. In the area of infrastructure and business regulation, it should reform the appeals process by
ensuring that the Judiciary simply determines whether the law has been applied without going into the
substance of the controversy.
In transport, the privatization of the existing rail network, the main airports and the national airline, were
conducted without the promulgation of a new transport law. In rail, the former government relied on an
old law that dated from around the turn of the century. As a result, these subsectors are facing a number
of regulatory problems. For instance, several complaints have been forthcoming about the lack of
regulation of civil aviation in practice, while there have been disagreements between the government and
the airports operator over alleged contractual non-compliance. The airlines, furthermore, have refused to
pay their portion of the levies for the Transport Superintendency, pointing out that the levy is a tax and
can therefore only be imposed through a law. Furthermore, there is a lack of clarity over the jurisdiction
of the Transport Superintendency verus the executive branch ministries. A general transport law would
be enacted in order to clarify rules related to the operation of transport services, ensuring that all
operators pay the required levy to the Transport Superintendency, while operating under clear and
efficient regulatory rules.
While a new general transport law would deal with the legal and regulatory framework for transport
services and infrastructure, a new law is also required to facilitate the granting of rights to develop new
infrastructure or to maintain existing infrastructure through concessions. This is important for the
development of new roads and rail lines, but particularly in maintenance of roads where it seems unlikely
that the public sector can cope with effective maintenance of the entire network. Although private
investment may not be able to finance large sections of new roads in Bolivia due to low traffic levels on
much of the road network, new roads could be built more efficiently than at present through concession
awards based on a "least subsidy" bid. Maintenance would also be improved by private collection of
road tolls and enforcement of maximum cargo loads.
To develop the hydrocarbons sector further, a series of new regulations have to be promulgated in the
near future, in order to develop the potential of the sector as a major export earner for the Bolivian
economy, stimulate the efficient use of hydrocarbons in the domestic economy and to allow the
privatization of the remaining state-owned hydrocarbons activities (for example refining, natural gas
distribution, LPG bottling, and jet fuel supply distribution). The natural gas distribution networks in the
major towns in Bolivia are to be concessioned to private operators to allow their expansion and the more
widespread use of natural gas as a fuel source for industrial, commercial and domestic purposes.
Regulations have to be developed to allow for the sale or concession of refineries, service stations, LPG
bottling, jet fuel supply and distribution facilities. In the case of natural gas exploitation, a new
regulation has to be developed to clarify the situation regarding royalties when gas is stored or reinjected.
In the case of water and sanitation services, one concession has been awarded so far for La Paz/El Alto.
Although not without problems, this contractual form provides a reasonable basis for progressing in the
sector, particularly relative to the poor services provided by municipalities and cooperatives that provide
the bulk of the services in the rest of the country. One of the issues is that the legal basis of the award is
a law dating from 1906 which does not provide a very secure basis for the regulatory framework.
Furthermore, there is concern that basic sanitation services be divided from issues of water resource
management and general water quality issues. A new law would ensure that these issues are separated
both legally and conceptually, with a Superintendent of Basic Sanitation to supervise water and sewerage
providers under SIRESE. A separate law may be drafted dealing with water resource management and
pollution issues and allow for the establishment of a Water Resources Superintendency under
SIRENARE, a separate supervisory agency.



Page 11                                 Annex 2
The telecommunications law ends the period of exclusivity held by long distance and local
telecommunications providers in 2001. In order to prepare for the end of exclusivity, however, the
ministry and the telecommunications superintendency have to prepare a series of regulations determining
rules governing interconnection, numbering, award of licenses to new entrants, etc. In addition, prior to
the ending of exclusivity in the local and long distance markets, two new licenses are due to be awarded
for the development of personal communications systems (PCS) services in the major towns.
Technical Assistance:
Sub-Component 1: Cross-Sectoral and Competition Regulatory Reform (Total Cost $500,000,
Credit Support $500,000)
Drafting of Competiton Law and Institutional Support: (Total Cost $300,000; Credit Support $300,000).
T'echnical assistance would be used to prepare a competition law providing mainly for protection from
restrictive agreements and consumer protection. Assistance would also be given to establish an
independent administrative mechanism and to provide staff training. The funds will pay for the hiring of
local and international lawyers and economists to advise on drafting the new law, and for equipment and
training to help establish an operational agency.
Drafting of Amendment to SIRESE Law and Administrative Procedures Law: (Total Cost $200,000;
Credit Support $200,000). Drafting an amendment to the SIRESE law to modify sections on oversight
and establish a consultative body to coordinate the drafting of new norms and exchange information
between SIRESE and the Ministries. Revision of the draft administrative procedures law would be done
with a view to ensuring timely and effective appeals procedures in business and infrastructure regulatory
cases. The funds will pay for the hiring of local and international lawyers and economists to advise on
drafting the new laws and ensure the new laws are consistent with existing legislation and the desired
objectives.
Sub-Component 2: Sector-Specific Infrastructure Regulatory Reform (Total Cost $5.61 million,
Credit Support $3.97 million)
Drafting of General Transport Law. Transport Concession Regulations and Institution Buildup (Total
Cost $1.04 million; Credit Support $400,000). This component will pay for international transport
experts and local lawyers to draft the general transport law and regulations and also pay for international
transport experts and local lawyers to draft the regulations to the transport concessions law (which has
already been drafted). In terms of institutional capacity-building, this component will pay for training in
concessions procedures and provide for institutional build-up of the Viceministry of Transport,
Communications and Civil Aviation's policy-making capabilities in this area, particularly in the area of
award of concessions and the institutional development of the transport superintendency and its
regulatory capabilities. This financing will cover training, hiring consultants, purchase of equipment and
international study tours.
Hydrocarbons (Total cost $1.5 million; Credit Support $1.5 million). This component will pay for the
international and local legal expertise required to develop new regulations to improve the regulatory
framework for existing operations and allow for the privatization of YPFB's remaining operations. The
specific regulations that are to be financed under this component include, among others: (i) refinery
operating regulations; (ii) natural gas distribution regulations; (iii) natural gas storage and reinjection
regulations; (iv) liquids storage regulations; (v) jet fuel supply regulations. This support also includes a
component for institutional strengthening of the Vice Ministry for Energy and Hydrocarbons. This will



Page 12                                Annex 2
fund consultants, equipment and training. It also includes support to the Ministry of Finance to develop a
unit to oversee the fiscal situation of the hydrocarbons sector.
Telecommunications: (Total Cost $3.07 million; Credit Support $2.07 million). This component will
pay for the development of regulations regarding the operation of PCS services and the opening of the
long distance and local service sectors to competition in 2001. It will pay for legal advice on new
regulations, development of concession contracts and amendments to legislation as required, technical
advice on interconnection, billing, numbering and quality of service and economic advice on
interconnection pricing. This component will also include training of staff and public relations.



Page 13                                  Annex 2
Project Component 3
Privatization
Total Cost US$15 million; Credit Support US$ 5.51 million
Background:
Although most of the major infrastructure owned by the Bolivian government was transferred to the
private sector as part of the privatization and capitalization programs, there is still a substantial list of
state-owned enterprises that remain to be transferred. In particular, some parts of the hydrocarbons
company (YPFB) remain to be sold, as well as some residual assets of the old state-run electricity and
rail companies (ENDE and ENFE) as well as around 55 smaller companies, including about forty owned
by the armed forces (see Annex 2, Attachment 1). The government is committed to privatize these assets
as part of its program and will use funds from the loan to finance this program. Privatization will both
provide revenues to government and improve the quality and efficiency with which these services are
provided.
The inefficient operation of cooperatives in the provision of public services, notably local telephony
services, electricity distribution and water and sanitation have led to limited coverage, high costs and low
quality of service. It is the objective of the government to encourage the transformation into corporations
with the participation of a strategic investor, of those cooperatives that do not comply with service
standards set out in concession contracts or licenses.
Technical Assistance:
Sub-Component 1: Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises and General Advisory Services (Total
Cost $11.60 million, Credit Support $2.10 million)
This subcomponent will finance the preparation for sale of the main remaining state-owned companies, notably
hydrocarbon-sector assets owned by the national hydrocarbons company (YPFB), the national smelting company
(EMV), a major cement company, two electric distribution companies; and the remaining state-owned rail assets
(ENFE). The Government will prepare a prioritized list of all the smaller enterprises to be privatized according
to their economic significance, i.e., their revenues, asset values, and profitability. It will then devise bi-annual
action plans for the sale of these remaining enterprises, sequencing the privatization, taking into consideration
their economic importance and difficulty of sale.
The costs will primarily comprise services of investment banks, legal and technical consultants required to
undertake the sales, road shows and publications. The component will also finance any environmental audits
required to undertake sales of environmentally sensitive enterprises.
Sub-Component 2: Public Services Cooperative Reform (Total Cost $3.40 million; Credit Support
$3.40 million)
This subcomponent will finance the evaluation, including the setting of performance targets, and assist in
corporate transformation of public service cooperatives. There are around 450 public service cooperatives
providing electricity distribution, local telecommunications and water and sanitation services in the country, the
large majority of which have poor service records. For those cooperatives that undertake corporate
transformation programs, this subcomponent will also finance services of investment banks, legal and technical
consultants required to undertake the sales, road shows and publications required to undertake this work.



Page 14                                 Annex 2
If the public service cooperatives do not comply with the standards established in the concession
contracts or licenses, the Government plans to encourage their transformation into private corporations,
with a substantial percentage of the shares controlled by a strategic investor. The subcomponent will
therefore finance the costs of investment banks, legal and technical consultants required to undertake this
transformation. The component will also finance any environmental audits required.



Page 15                                 Annex 2
Project Component 4
Program Implementation Support
Total Cost US$3.46 million; Credit Support US$ 3.46 million
Sub-Component 1: Project Management Unit (Total Cost $1.81 million; Credit Support $1.81
million)
A project unit (the Unit) will be created in the Ministry of Finance and will be in charge of executing the
overall project. The Unit will be responsible for procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines and
the facilitation of disbursements for all project activities. It will coordinate the provision of technical
assistance services to the various end-users (Ministries, the Central Bank, and regulatory agencies). The
Unit will be headed by a Project Director with demonstrated managerial experience, and comprise a
small team including two procurement experts, two accountants, a systems specialist and one
administrative assistant, two secretaries and one database specialist. A lawyer for the Unit would be kept
on retainer. Training to the Unit's staff would be provided as needed, but particularly on World Bank
procurement and disbursement requirements and procedures. Office space and furniture costs will be
paid with counterpart funds.
Sub-Component 2: Public Information Campaign (Total Cost $1.65 million; Credit Support $1.65
million)
The Credit will finance a full-time public information advisor as well as short-term experts in identifying
public perceptions of the Government's reform program and in developing a communications strategy to
effectively reach out to the public and facilitate understanding and consensus among stakeholders. The
proposed assistance consists of four components: (i) design, development, and implementation of a
communications strategy; (ii) design, production and dissemination of information; (iii) supporting
surveys and research; and (iv) seminars, training and conferences.
Communications Strategy: (Total Cost $115,000; Credit Support $115,000). The advisor will develop
and implement a comprehensive communications strategy for the Government's regulatory reform and
privatization program consisting of sector, national, and international campaign. The sector and national
campaigns will serve to educate stakeholders and the public at large about the benefits of the program
and aim at building broad-based support. The international campaign will assist in marketing the state-
owned asset divestiture program and enterprises identified to be privatized.
Information Material: (Total Cost $460,000; Credit Support $460,000). The advisor will be directly
responsible for budgeting, overseeing and coordinating the design, production and dissemination of
information to support the communications strategy through various media, including television, radio,
and print.
Surveys and Research: (Total Cost $615,000; Credit Support $615,000). The advisor will assess
knowledge and perceptions of the general public regarding the regulatory reform and privatization
programs. The data will provide feedback information regarding the effectiveness of the components of
the public information campaign. The work will include the collection of qualitative and quantitative
data through focus groups and surveys.
Seminars, Training, and Conferences: (Total Cost $460,000; Credit Support $460,000). The advisor will
organize special event to educate major stakeholders about the regulatory reform and privatization
programs. Such activities may include seminars for members of Congress, seminars and training
programs for key public officials, and seminars for employees of enterprises participating identified to be
privatized.



Annex 2
Attachment 1
State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) to be Privatized
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. .....    .  -.-.-.-.-.......................   ..................... . ....... ...............
I  Empresa Metal]rgica de Vinto                        EMV               COMIBOL/Oruro
2   Empresa Minera Colquiri                            Colquiri           COMIBOL/La Paz
3  Empresa Minera Huanuni                              Huanuni           COMIBOL/Oruro
4   Planta Industrial Oruro                            PIO                COMIBOL/Oruro
5  Proyecto Multiple Misicuni                                            Alcadia Cbba.
6  Servicio Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado  SEMAPA           Alcadia Cbba.
Cbba.
7  Fabrica Nacional de Cimento                         FANCESA           Prefectura de Chuquisaca
8  Financiera de Desarrollo S.A.                       FINDESA            Prefectura de Santa Cruz
9   Servicio Electrico Potosi S.A.                     SEPSA              Prefectura de Potosi
10   Servicio Electrico de Tarija                       SETAR             Prefectura de Tarija
1   Industrias Agricolas Bermejo                        JAB               Prefectura de Tarija
12  Cooperativa Electrica de Sucre                      CECSA             Prefectura de Chuquisaca
13   Planta de Silos Sachojere                          Silos Sachojere   Prefectura del Beni
14  Planta de Alimentos Balanceados del Beni            ALBABENI          Prefectura del Beni
15  Fabrica de Ceramica Roja de Camiri S.A.M.           F.C.R.C.          Prefectura de Santa Cruz
16  Fabrica de Ceramica Roja de Robore S.A.M.           F.C.R.R.          Prefectura de Sana Cruz
17  Hacienda Blanca Flor                                Blanca Flor       Prefectura de Pando
18  Industria de Papel Sidras                           IPTALSA           Prefectura de Tarija
19  Planta Elaboradora de productos LActeos             MILKA             FONADAL
20   Projecto Minero Mutun                              MUTUN              COMIBOL/Santa Cruz
21   YPFB Residual
22   ENDE Residual
23   Correos
24   Aduana________
ENTERPRISES OWNED BY THE ARMED FORCES
No~             ~t#~rw i~e_                                                      ~    *E P    {
I  FabricaNacional de Explosivos SAM                   FANEXA SAM        COFADENA/Cochabamba
2   Ingenio Arrocero de Montero                                           COFADENA/Santa Cruz
3   Fundo Puesto 21                                                       COFADENA/Santa Cruz
4   Fundo Rinconcito                                                      COFADENA/Santa Cruz
5  Fundo Baflado Grande                                                  COFADENA/Santa Cruz
6  Empresa Agricola Guabira                                               COFADENA/Santa Cruz
7  Quimica B$sica Boliviana                                 _            COFADENA/Potosi
8  EmpresaNacional Automotriz                                            COFADENA/Cochabamba
9   Empresa Agricola de Bermejo                                           COFADENA/Tarija
10   Fabrica Boliviana de Municiones                                      COFADENA//Cochabamba
11   Fabrica Militar de Muebles                                           COFADENA
12   Empresa Ganadera Campo 23 de Marzo                                   COFADENA
13  Fabrica Militar de Utiles de Cuero                                    COFADENA
14   Planta Beneficiadora de Cafe                                         COFADENA
15  Centro de Producci6n Tamborada                                        COFADENA
16   Empresa Mariscal Santa Cruz                                          COFADENA/Santa Cruz
17  Empresa de Explotacfon de Recursos Hidraulicos                        COFADENA
18  Empresa Metal-Mecanica de Utiles de Roscar                            COFADENA
19   Unidad de Plantaciones                                               COSSMIL
20   Fabrica de Botas                                                      COSSMIL
21   Fabrica Nacional de Quinina                                           COSSMIL/La Paz
22   Empresa Integral del Cafd                                             COSSMIL/La Paz
23   Comando de Ingeneria                                                  COSSMIL/La Paz
24   Fabrica Boliviana de Acido Sulfurico                                  COSSMIL/Oruro
25   Empresa Agroindustrial La Gaiba                                       Min. de Defensa
26   Corporaci6n Gestora Proyecto Abap6-lzozog                             Min. de Defensa/Santa Cruz
27   Empresa Buena Vista                                                   Min. de Defensa
28  Instituto de Aerofotogrametrfa                                         Min. de Defensa
29  Instituto Geografico Militar                                           Min. de Defensa
30   Servicio de Hidrografia Naval                                         Min. de Defensa
31   Servicio Geodesico de Mapas                                           Min. de Defensa



Page 2                                   Annex 2, Attachment 1
32   Comando de Ingenieria de] Ejercito Transnaval                            Min. de Defensa/La Paz
33   Transportes Aereos Bolivianos                                            Min. de DefensalLa Paz
34   Transportes Aereos Militares                                 _           Min de Defensa/La Paz
35   Concesiones Mineras de COFADENA                                          Min. de Defensa
36   Concesiones Mineras de COSSMIL                               _           Min. de DefensalPotosi
37   Empresa Naviera Boliviana                                                Min. de Defensa/La Paz
38   Linea Naviera Boliviana                                                  Min. de DefensalLa_Paz
39   Fundo Guabira                                                            Min. de DefensalSanta Cruz



Annex 2
Attachment 2
Terms of Reference: Environment
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW AND SITE ASSESSMENT
OF FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS
Background
The Government of Bolivia (GoB) has recognized the need to reassess and redefine its role in
financial sector regulation, infrastructure regulation and privatization, and business competition
regulation, and to attract private sector participation by establishing an appropriate regulatory
framework. To these ends, the GoB has requested the assistance of the World Bank in regulatory reform
and privatization. In accordance with global emphasis and domestic Bolivian policy and industrial
standards of practice, environmental issues will play an important role in enterprise privatization and
cooperative reform.
Purpose
Bolivia is now progressing towards good practices of environmental performance. As one of the
first steps in environmental management, consultants will be retained to ensure that all aspects of this
project will have either full EAs completed or audits/site assessments completed on the environmentally
sensitive privatization or cooperative reform activities. The environmental specialists will work directly
for the Vice-Minister in charge of the privatization program and will coordinate closely with the relevant
agencies overseeing state-owned assets identified to be privatized on the clearance of EIAs and
mitigation studies/audits.
A key counterpart will be the environmental unit of the Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons,
which is a well established unit supported by two active Bank projects (Hydrocarbons Capitalization and
Power Sector Reform). The unit has been screening all proposed subprojects to decide on the need for
further EA work. They have established guidelines for project review that incorporate environmental
concerns into the privatization of the power and hydrocarbon sector decisionmaking.
Environmental Requirements
Environmental Assessments (EA) and audits completed for this project will comply with all
environmental guidance, laws and regulations of Bolivia as well as the World Bank requirements for
conducting EAs, including the Operation Directive (OD) 4.01: Environmental Assessment, Assessment
Sourcebook, Environmental Guidelines and Occupational Safety and Health Guidelines. In case national
or Bank standards or guidelines are not available, other international standards or guidelines will be used.
Scope of Work
The consultants should maintain dialogue and up-to-date information on:
Task 1. General
A.    A detailed evaluation of the specific environmental and social issues associated with
privatization or cooperative reform.



Page 2                     Annex 2, Attachment 2
B.    Review past and existing facilities and operations in the context of current and planned
environmental regulations and complete a matrix for each asset that indicates environmental
damage and mitigation plans proposed.
TASK 2. Review the Regulatory Structure, the Underlying Requirements for Compliance, and the
Legal Implications for Concessioning, Privatization and Cooperative Reform
A.    Review current and planned regulatory structure for concessioning, privatization and cooperative
reform of pertinent sectors, the Environment Law, environmental regulations in preparation, and
related sector-specific laws.
B.    Assess the ability of current sector operations, given existing equipment, structures and
procedures, to comply with planned regulations.
C.    Discuss with regulatory agencies and sectors in charge of preparing concessions and of
advancing the privatization and cooperative reform process the requirements for compliance.
D.    Review the legal implications for the privatization and cooperative reform of the
environmentally sensitive enterprises and cooperatives for (i) environmental cleanup of past
operations, and (ii) compliance under planned regulations.
TASK 3. Identify the Types of Damage and Necessary Clean-up Operations
A.    Identify and categorize the environmental damages in each enterprise to be privatized or
cooperative to be reformed in terms of origin, type and magnitude of damage; clean-up operation
necessary, and cost of clean-up for each incident of damage.
B.    Prioritize immediacy of clean-up according to damage severity. Identify and explain the process
of damage prioritization.
C.    Define specific clean-up requirements and categorize in terms of technology and equipment.
The clean-up requirements must reflect Bolivian standards and the equipment and technology
must be appropriate to Bolivian circumstances.
TASK 4. Determine the Investment Schedule for Performing Clean-up Operations
A.    Determine the investment schedule for performing the cleanup operation.
B.    The investment schedule will conform to the requirements of planned regulations, and a
reasonable plan for financing the investment.
C.    Potential conflicts between the requirements of planned regulations and financing the investment
should be addressed as should possible resolution of the conflict.
TASK 5. Determine Long- and Short-Run Costs/Benefits of the Investment Plan
A.    Assess the cost to the sector to be capitalized and GoB of implementing the investment plan of
environmental cleanup.



Page 3                     Annex 2, Attachment 2
B.    Estimate, to the extent practicable, the benefits to the enterprise to be privatized or the
cooperative to be reformed and the economy of Bolivia of the implementation of the investment
plan.
C.    Assess the cost to the enterprise to be privatized or cooperative to be reformed of complying
with the regulations with existing operations, equipment and structures.
D.    Determine if modifications to equipment and alterations to operations are required to allow the
enterprise to be privatized or cooperative to be reformed to comply with planned regulations.
Estimate related costs.
TASK 6. Prepare and Submit Final Report Summarizing Findings and Making Recommendations
for Follow-up Action
A technical annex (matrix) should be prepared for each supervision mission that cross references each
sector/site with proposed clean up requirements, mitigation and remediation plans, and proposed
responsibility for clean up operations.
Involvement of Affected Groups and Nongovernmental Organizations: It is important that the affected
groups and nongovernmental organizations understand both the nature and extent of any social and
environmental impacts of proposed projects. The consultants will encourage dialogue between the
enterprise to be privatized or cooperative to be reformed and affected groups and organizations relative
to this project, and will document this dialogue in the final report.



Annex 3
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                             Local            Foreign        Total
------------------US S thousands------------------
1. Financial Sector Regulation
Sub-Component 1: Banking Sector
Establishment of DGF                                       150.0           565.0          715.0
Prudential Regulations                                     150.0           208.3          358.3
Supervisory and Regulatory Structure                       50.0            125.6          175.6
SBEF Supervisory Functions                                797.0           2229.0        3,026.0
Central Bank Liquidity Support                              50.0            58.0          108.0
Sub-Component 2: Non-Bank Financial Sector
Redefinition of Supervisory Institutional Structure        100.0           200.0          300.0
Insurance Sector Regulatory Framework                      100.0           200.0          300.0
Pension and Capital Market Regulatory Framework           200.0            581.0          781.0
Sub-Total Financial Sector                                  1,597.0          4166.9        5,763.9
2. Infrastructure and Business Regulation
Sub-Component 1: Cross-Sectoral and Competiton
Regulatory Reform
Competition Law                                            150.0           150.0          300.0
SIRESE Law and Administrative Procedures Law               100.0           100.0          200.0
Sub-Component 2: Sector-Speciflc Infrastructure
Regulatory Reform
Transport                                                 300.0            740.0         1,040.0
Hydrocarbons                                              500.0           1,000.0        1,500.0
Telecommunications                                       1,068.1          2,000.0       3,068.1
Sub-Total Infrastructure and Business Regulation            2,118.1         3,990.0        6,108.1
3. Privatization
Sub-Component 1: Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises     2,200.0         9,408.0       11,608.0
Sub-Component 2: Public Services Cooperative Reform         1,200.0         2,200.0        3,400.0
Sub-Total Privatization                                     3,400.0        11,608.0       15,008.0
4. Program Implementation Support
Sub-Component 1: Project Management Unit                    1,000.0           810.0         1,810.0
Sub-Component 2: Public Information Campaign
Communications Strategy                                     80.0            35.0          115.0
Information Material                                      300.0            160.0          460.0
Surveys and Research                                      465.0            150.0          615.0
Seminars, Training, and Conferences                       260.0            200.0          460.0
Sub-Total Program Implementation Support                    2,105.0         1,355.0        3,460.0
5. Unallocated                                                   700.0          1,300.0        2,000.0
Total                                                          9,920.1         22,419.9       32,340.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                                                        n/a
Price Contingencies                                                                           n/a
Total Project Cost                                             9,920.1         22,419.9       32,340.0



Annex 4
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                 Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis         Analysis4        Taxes             Subsidies
Project Costs
Not Applicable
4 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."



Annex 5
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
Project Costs
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Total
Financing Sources (% of total
pject costs)
IBRD/IDA
Co-financiers
Government
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total
Not Applicable



Annex 6
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A.1). The project elements, their estimated
costs, and the procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by IDA are
shown in Tables A.1 and A.2. All IDA-financed technical assistance, consultant
services, goods and facilities would be procured under the relevant World Bank/IDA
Guidelines. Contracts for goods valued at less than $30,000, up to an aggregate of
$400,000, would be procured through Shopping Procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Contracts for furniture and other goods locally available valued at less than $150,000, up
to an aggregate of $600,000, would be procured through National Competitive Bidding.
Contracts for goods valued over $150,000 would be procured through International
Competitive Bidding. Consultant services and training would be contracted in
accordance with Bank Group "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated January 1997 and revised September
1997. Please see Table A.2 for procurement arrangements for consultant services and
training. Please see Table B for a summary of procurement procedures, by project task,
to be used for consultant services and training. Procurement of goods would be done in
accordance with Bdnk Group "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (for Goods)" dated January 1995 and revised January and August 1996 and
September 1997.
Prior review thresholds (Table C). The threshold for prior review for consultant
services and training would be $100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and $50,000 for
contracts with individuals. For contracts for individuals for less than $50,000, only terms of
reference would be furnished to IDA. All ICB and the first two NCB and Shopping procedures
will be subject to prior review.
Disbursement
- Allocation of loan proceeds (Table D). The Project would be implemented over a four
year period from the estimated date of credit effectiveness, with a target completion date of
September 30, 2002. The Closing Date of the IDA credit would be March 31, 2003, six months
after the project completion date. The proposed credit would be disbursed against the project
components as shown in Table D. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Table D.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). SOEs will be submitted for (a) all goods
contracts less than $150,000, and (b) all individual contracts less than $50,000, and (c) all
consulting firm contracts less than $100,000.
Special account: The Government will establish a Special Account (SA) in the Central
Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Up to $500,000 can be advanced from the Credit
into the SA to facilitate disbursements for the purpose of the project. The SA will be replenished
by submitting withdrawal applications to IDA on a monthly basis.



2                                 Annex 6
Annex 6, Table A.1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other     N.B.F
1. Goods
1.34      0.60        0.47       4.08       6.49
(1.34)     (0.60)     (0.40)                 (2.34)
2. Consultant Services
16.01       7.90       23.91
(16.01) i/             (16.01)
3. Training
1.94                  1.94
(1.65)                (1.65)
Total                      1.34       0.60      18.42      11.98       32.34
(1.34)     (0.60)    (18.06)                (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
1' International and National Shopping Procedures
2' Consisting of financial advisory services and fees
3/ Please see Table A.2 below for a breakdown of procurement procedures for
Consultant Services and Training; please see Table B for a summary of procurement
procedures, by project task, to be used for consultant services and training.
Annex 6, Table A.2: Procurement Method for Consultant Services and Training
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method             Total Credit Support
Expenditure Category    QCBS       Individual   Sole Source       (including
contingencies)
Consultant Services       7.16         8.85          0.00             16.01
Training                  0.00         1.15          0.50              1.65
lQota                   7.16         10.0         0.50              17.66



3                                  Annex 6
Annex 6, Table B: Procurement Categories for Consultant Services and
Training
Note: QCBS: Quality and Cost-Based Selection; I: Individual Consultants
Credit Support        Procurement
for Consultant          Category
Services and Training*
Project Component 1: Financial Sector
Sub-Component 1: Banking Sector
Establishment of DGF                               $750,000                I
Prudential Regulations                             $450,000                I
Supervisory and Regulatory Structure               $200,000                I
SBEF Supervisory Functions                       $1,200,000      I / Sole Source
Central Bank Liquidity Support                     $120,,000               I
Sub-Component 2: Non-Bank Financial Sector
Redefinition of Supervisory Institutional Structure  $120,000              I
Insurance Sector Regulatory Framework              $290,000                I
Pension and Capital Market Regulatory Framework    $680,000                I
Project Component 2: Infrastructure and Business Regulation
Sub-Component 1: Cross-Sectoral and Competition Regulatory Reform
Competition Law                                    $220,000                I
SIRESE Law and Administrative Procedures Law       $190,000                I
Sub-Component 2: Sector-Specific Infrastructure Regulatory Reform
Transport                                          $490,000      I / Sole Source
Hydrocarbons                                      $1,750,000     I / Sole Source/ QCBS
Telecommunications                                $2,200,000     I / Sole Source/ QCBS
Project Component 3: Privatization
Sub-Component 1: Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises  $2,400,000           QCBS
Sub-Component 2: Public Services Cooperative Reform      $3,600,000         I/ QCBS
Project Component 4: Program Implementation Support
Sub-Component 1: Project Management Unit                 $1,500,000               I
Sub-Component 2: Project Information Campaign
Communications Strategy                            $190,000                I
Information Material                               $100,000          I /QCBS
Surveys and Research                               $730,000                I
Seminars, Training, and Conferences               $480,000                 I
Total Consultant Services and Training Supported by Credit  $17,660,000
* Costs by sub-component cover only Consultant Services and Training supported by the Credit, but do
include tentative allocations for PPF and Unallocated categories



4                                 Annex 6
Annex 6, Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method              Prior Review
1. Goods
More than $150,000           ICB                      all
Less than $150,000, up       NCB                 first two
to an aggregate of
$600,000
Less than $30,000, up      Shopping              first two
to an aggregate of
$400,000
2. Services, including
Training
More than $100,000                                  all
for firms
Less than $100,000 for                           all TORs
firms
More than $50,000 for                                 all
individuals
Less than $50,000 for                            all TORs
individuals



5                                  Annex 6
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in            Financing
US$million          Percentage
Goods                                              2.10          100% of Foreign
Expenditures; 100% of
Local Expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of Local
Expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants and Services                           13.00                100%
Training                                            1.40                 85%
PPF Refinancing                                     1.5                 100%
Unallocated                                         2.0
Total        20.0



Annex 7
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
111                  65
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                           3 months
First Bank mission (identification)            03/16/1998           03/16/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    05/11/1998           05/11/1998
Negotiations                                   06/03/1998           06/03/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/01/1998              / /19
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: PPF (US$ 1.5 million)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Mario Abuhadba                     Pension and Insurance Specialist
Albert Amos                            Operations Analyst
Jaime Carvajal                       Financial Sector Specialist
Augusto de la Torre             Lead Specialist, Financial Sector, LCSFP
Fernando de Mergelina                Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Susan Goldmark                         Sector Leader, LCSFP
Philip Gray                          Regulatory Specialist
Luis Guasch                   Lead Specialist, Private Sector, LCSFP
James Hanna                      Principle Private Sector Specialist
Don Mclsaac                            Insurance Specialist
Carlos Mollenido                      Private Sector Specialist
Roberto Laver                            Country Lawyer
Axel Peuker                              Task Manager
Elisabeth Sherwood                           Economist
Hermann von Gersdorff                Senior Financial Sector Specialist



Annex 7
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                          3 months
First Bank mission (identification)            03/16/1998           03/16/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    05/11/1998           05/11/1998
Negotiations                                   06/03/1998           06/03/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/30/19               / /19
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: PPF (US$ 1.5 million)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Mario Abuhadba                     Pension and Insurance Specialist
Albert Amos                            Operations Analyst
Jaime Carvajal                      Financial Sector Specialist
Augusto de la Torre             Lead Specialist, Financial Sector, LCSFP
Fernando de Mergelina                Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Susan Goldmark                         Sector Leader, LCSFP
Philip Gray                          Regulatory Specialist
Luis Guasch                   Lead Specialist, Private Sector, LCSFP
James Hanna                      Principle Private Sector Specialist
Don McIsaac                            Insurance Specialist
Carlos Mollenido                      Private Sector Specialist
Roberto Laver                            Country Lawyer
Axel Peuker                              Task Manager
Elisabeth Sherwood                           Economist
Hernann von Gersdorff                Senior Financial Sector Specialist



Annex 8
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Terms of Reference for key PMU staff



Status of Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 60
Active Loans
BO-PE-40085   IDA30650      1998   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA               PARTICIP RURAL INV.               0.00       62.80            0.00         62.80        0.00       0.00
BO-PE-40110   IDAN0330      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF)         FIN DECEN & ACCT                  0.00       15.00            0.00         14.56         .67       0.00
BO-PE-55974   IDA30570      1998   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             BO EL NINO EMERGENCY              0.00       25.00            0.00         24.94        0.00       0.00
BO-PE-6173    IDA27613      1998   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    CAPITALIZATION PROG               0.00        2.90            0.00          2.83      -22.39       7.13
BO-PE-34606   IDA27890      1996   GOVERNMENT                        FIN MRKTS & PENS REF              0.00        9.00            0.00          2.24        2.73       0.00
BO-PE-6173    IDA27610      1996   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    CAPITALIZATION PROG               0.00       50.00            0.00          9.16      -22.39       7.13
BO-PE-6178    IDA27620      1996   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA               HYDROC.SEC.REF&CAPIT              0.00       10.64            0.00          1.49        2.21       2.21
BO-PE-6186    IDA28050      1996   REPUB. OF BOLIVIA                 ENV.IND.& MINING                  0.00       11.00            0.00          9.21        1.90       0.00
BO-PE-6191    IDA27900      1996   GOVERNMENT                        POWER SCTR REF TA &               0.00        5.10            0.00          2.24        2.44       0.00
BO-PE-6202    IDA27720      1996   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             RURAL COMMUNITIES DE              0.00       15.00            0.00          4.45        2.29       0.00
BO-PE-6206    IDA28060      1996   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                   RURAL WTR & SANIT                 0.00       20.00            0.00         12.82        9.60       0.00
BO-PE-37005   IDA26470      1995   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                   REGULATORY REF & CAP              0.00       14.70            0.00           .93        -.97       0.00
BO-PE-6181    IDA26500      1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    EDUCATION REFORM                  0.00       40.00            0.00         20.49        3.66       0.00
BO-PE-6197    IDA27420      1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    LAND ADMINISTRATION               0.00       20.40            0.00         11.93         .28       0.00
BO-PE-6205    IDA27050      1995   GOV'T. OF BOLIVIA                 JUDICIAL REFORM                   0.00       11.00            0.00          6.47        3.11       0.00
BO-PE-6190    IDA25650      1994   GOVMT OF BOLIVIA                  MUNICIPAL DEV                     0.00       42.00            0.00         15.76       11.82       0.00
BO-PE-6196    IDA25310      1993   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    INTEGRATED CHILD DEV              0.00       50.70            0.00         38.52       21.19       0.00
BO-PE-6200    IDA25320      1993   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                   SOC INVEST FUND II                0.00       40.00            0.00          7.17        6.43       0.00
BO-PE-6180    IDA23950      1992   GOV'T OF BOLIVIA    A             RD MAINT                          0.00       80.00            0.00         33.04       30.98       0.00
BO-PE-6188    IDA22160      1991   GOVT OF BOLIVIA       A           TECHNOLOGY DEV                    0.00       21.00            0.00           .74         .34       0.00
BO-PE-6166    IDA20920      1990   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             INTEGRATED HLTH DEV               0.00       20.00            0.00          1.58        -.56       0.00
Total                                                                                                  0.00      566.24            0.00        283.37       53.34      16.47
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 279.57             991.75            1,271.32
of which has been repaid:                  0.00              281.35              281.35
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 570.87             697.81            1,268.68
Amount sold                                       0.00                 .05                 .05
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                .05                 .05
Total Undisbursed               :               283.37              12.42              295.79
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590) . Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Bolivia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval           Company          Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
0                   Minera                 0.00    3.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.40    0.00    0.00
1976/88/90/91/95     BISA                   13.00    2.70    0.00    0.00   13.00    2.70    0.00    0.00
l989/92194/96        COMSUR                 13.86    0.00    2.14    3.50   13.86    0.00    2.14    3.50
1991                 Bermejo                 0.00    5.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.00    0.00
1991                 Central Aguirre         .91    .35    0.00    0.00    .91    .35    0.00    0.00
1992                 Inti Raymi             12.50    0.00    5.00    0.00   12.50    0.00    5.00    0.00
1993                 GENEX                   1.08    0.00    1.19    0.00    .64    0.00     .90    0.00
1996                 Mercantil-BOL          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Telecel Bolivia        10.00    0.00    5.00   20.00    6.67    0.00    5.00   13.33
Total Portfolio:                  61.35   12.35   13.33   23.50   57.58   10.21   13.04   16.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
Ln   Equ4   Ous    Part*c
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex 10
Bolivia at a Glance
LaUn   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL  .                                        America  middle-   r                    -         -- . _
Bolivia   & Carib.  income      Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          7.6       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              930      3,710    1,750Le expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                 7.1     1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                        I
Population I(%) ,                                       2.4       1.7       1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (I%)                                        2.6       2.3       1.8    a  p                                Gross
-- ~~  .      p~rimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populatbon)
Urban population (% of total population)                58         74       56    1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        60         69       67    l
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                69         37       41                Access to safe water
Child mainutrition (% of children under 5)              13
Access to safe water (1% of,population)                 60         80       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    17         13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   95        110      104                 Bolivia
Mate                                                  99          ..     105    I j          Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                90                 101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic rados
GDP (billions US$)                            1.9       3.6       6.8       7.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                24.5      16.8      14.8      16.1             Opennessofeconomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            26.1      14.3      18.3      17.6             O
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      .,       ..       9.7      10.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   16.3      11.3       9.6      11.0   I                   T
Current account balance/GOP                   -8.1     -5.5      -5.2      -5.1
Interest payments/GDP                         1.5       5.3       2.6       2.1    I Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                               53.3    133.5       77.4      68.3
Total debt service/exports                    17.5     49.6      29.7      26.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      55.0      47.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..    303.5    278.0                   Indebtedneu
1975-85  1986.96     1995      1996  1997.05
(average annual growth)                                                                    -    o lfva
GOP                                 -0.2      3.8       3.9       4.0       5.5
GNP per capita                      -3.1      1.9       1.6       1.6       3.2   I      --Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -4.2      8.2      11.2       2.9       6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(%6 of GDP)                                                                       EGrowth rates of output and Invtment %
Agrculture                                   20.3      36.9       17.7     17.5    i 20 T
Industry                                     32.2      36.3      25.6      25.7
Manufacturng                                12.3     15.3       15.0     15.1      IX
Services                                     47.5      26.8      56.7      56.8
9I    1    92   93   94   95   9s
Private consumption                          71.2      81.1      77.0      76.5     -1u1
General govemmentconsumption                 10.5      10.6      13.4      13.4               -     GDI   -*--GOP
Imports of goods and services                32.1      22.8      23.5      23.6    _
197S45  1986-96       1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
Agriculture                                    1.4       ..        ..
Industry                                     -3.2        ..        ..
Manufactunng                                -1.8   --        !                   I
Services                                      1.4        ..        ..        .,
Private consumption                           2.8       3.9       4.1       4.2 5
General govemment consumption                 -0.9      25         1.2      1.3      o
Gross domestic investment                    -15.7      6.3       9.2       9.1             91   92   93   94    95   g9
Imports of goods and services                -6.3       5.2       8.3      15.7    !            Expors   -m port
Gross national product                        -1.0      4.1        3.9      5.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10                                                           Page 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1006      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(X change)                                                                          30 T
Consumer prices (Dec.JDec.)                   7.8  11,749.6      12.6      8.0 
Implicit GOP deflator (Dec./Dec.)             6.5  11,289.1      12.9     12.7      2 
10
Govemment finance
(% of GOP)                                                                           0---- .- 
Current revenue                                ..        ..      23.2      22.6             91   92   93   94    95    96
Current budget balance                                    .       5.6       5.9              -GDPdet.    CP
Overall surplusideficit                             ..           -1.8      -1.8
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996    :
(millions USS)                                                                    i Export and import eveis (nill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    628      1,075    1,131      2.0
Tin                                           ..      187        89        88          1
Fuel                                          ..     376        142       138     r.soo!
Manufactures                                  .         .         .
Total imports (cif)                                    891      1,394    1,588      1O;                         IL
Food..                                                  ...                 .        0I
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                 ..      253       566       70
Export price index (1987=100)                   .       93         70        ..           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      120        194        ..   a(po5    9Imports
Terns of trade (1987=100)                      ..       78         38
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)Q                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratfo I%)
Exports of goods and services                 486      721      1,252    1.328    1
Importsof goodsand services                   618      807      1.594    1,772                                           9S;
Resource balance                             -132      -86       -342      444         ||
Net factor income                             -41     -423       -221     -169               I                  |         _
Net current transfers                          19      311        209      229
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -154      -198      -354      -384        ,
Financing Items (net)                         114      227        477      720    i                       .
Changes in net reserves                        40      -29       -123     -336      .5
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           197      492        737    1,132
Conversion rate (localIUS$)               2.8E-05       0.8       4.8       5.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1085      1995      1996
(fmillions USS)                                                                   1 Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,013    4,805      5,266     5124
IBRD                                        .21      207         95   61.354                 F   G  A
IDA                                          50       94        770  842.701                 F  305 68      8
Total debt service                             87      366        372      355
IBRO                                          2       27         36   32.154                                     C
IDA                                           1        2          8    8.321                                    259
Compostion of net resource flows
Offical grants                                8       71        202      221             E
1705
Official creditors                           38        -1       271      256
Private credRors                             78       -36        41        -5
Foreign dkect Investment                     53       10        177      426                                0
Portfolio equRy                               0        0          0        0                               1843
World Bank program
Commitments                                  40        0        116      58.5                A-                    E - Bilateral
IBRO   0 -Other       F -Private
Disbursements                                10       12        113   99.845                 B-IDA  multiaterl     G -Short-
Principal repayments                          1       13         29   28.262                 c-                    term
Net flows                                     9        -1        84   71.583    l
interest payments                             1       16         15   12.213
Net transfers                                 8       -17        69    59.37
Develpment Economics and LA3CI                                                                                       8/28/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2051 6
7O*                                          55~~~s                                                      52
B R  A  Z  I L,                                                                              B    L I V  I A
'. t i                                                                      ROADS.
TcPDBronzoW    /Cr:Cx12,   -/                                                                                                        Sccondcry
*2 onsoRoh2     G-o--r-e- -----T-c;
.   S   rl    M2tebm R                  ,rA~~ENScc  M 
\   tOBIJA4\_-                       / 91~~~~Rbe,ostc  j                                                                          Foss5  scce
\    .  /o*2l  _   .                                                                                                                    S\j.,.Res
5,-                                                               ®       SosorsoCopsol~~~~T,
Sc 1                                                                                                                                                    Baposc' B--odo- ec                2
;°P0 o. -eoth              s                          o                         t                                                 A  plano
P  E   R   U               locas                               Sancoc ,                                                  -        
AwP             0o2n     OR     Sas-cRco R . .                                                                                                                2      22
Sas^cg.ncuce0r2nbeu                                       .                                                                              CLOMS5EOS
eec,  I 04aocnoacqc ~        I, M
5" 9.,~2w- . \              5  Bo            proMonteJ      TRIN,DAD                                            I               °251
;_022hooo            Osascaca s noc,c° s \
cAl'oco sgrg!                   '                                                                     '             )       B   R   A           Z    I   L
~~~~~~~~~~ .N,y 2oald9s4                 9Iomn              09oV,aro
IA' ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     A PW nonCVT  {.q2c,  out   S ,                                                         oc njIA
CIoc,sscs h u-um oll   PtOPonho4,  ;od s ~  c , Ro                                              -bRio   '   .sonJovle   S ~Ignocso --=   = =    _  2R  0
PAZ /~O~O' '5t  Sodas                                        mc L-ocP                                                              So  R   sA G
2 C                            \,,)2oca           p M               M-   SeNTAC9    s-c\   d
)''  c5s<Tmc           MO555c Fop                      Sa     .a J-                                                                                                    S. rj. 
/+~ ~ ~~~c   ci   seia *.                                     SANSASoPLO        N 5Pob2ls                                                       xC '
C        .-ossae    - ~                                                                                                 5'.W;f   | Fmv,w7  DO5M
IC.-                                                                      vt.  -
*                            2Oh0 0                      '_                                                                                           -A[_;P|    
Cf H   A -~            rj #; I L E                        R..sdl;eoO                                                                   0 i
r   ¾            dOdyd         Ya)s FPDCITO5       'S             P  SE   WX JOPARAGUA1
\ r NX i / X ,,,,.: -.F . < J~~~~~~ARGENTINA/
TDAn,Df90.,0  _.H A  G E N T S IN   A                                                                                                         L RLJ (""°/ RG6AY
79  / AA' \ To 5910 Rosur uf§Emborc~~E b-.'OCon .ss E eJA  e 



