Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3108-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 20, 1998
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1998 between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Interamerican Development 
Bank’s Multilateral Investment Fund (IDB-MIF) a grant (the IDB-MIF Grant) in an amount 
of two million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in financing Part A.2 of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB-MIF Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and IDB-MIF; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12.
‘Participating Country means any country that the Association  
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AFP" means an administradora de fondos de pensiones, a special purpose 
corporation established to administer pension funds, duly established under the 
Pension Law (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
"Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement, as approved by the Association; 
(c)
"Banking Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1488, dated April 14, 1993, 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated May 3, 1993, as amended from 
time to time and including all regulations thereto;
(d)
"Beneficiary Agencies" means each of the Borrower’s Central Bank, SBEF 
(as hereinafter defined), Sectoral Superintendencies (as hereinafter defined), SIRESE 
General Superintendency (as hereinafter defined), SIREFI General Superintendency (as 
hereinafter defined), SP (as hereinafter defined), SS (as hereinafter defined), SI (as 
hereinafter defined), Ministry of Economic Development, Ministerio de Desarrollo 
Económico, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Investment, Ministerio de Comercio Exterior e 
Inversión and any other entity or agency that may be agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank; and " Beneficiary Agencies"  means collectively all of such entities and 
agencies; 
(e)
"Capitalization Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1544, dated March 21, 
1994, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated March 22, 1994, as 
amended from time to time and including all the regulations thereto; 
(f)
"Central Bank Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1670, dated October 31, 
1995 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated October 31, 1995, as 
amended from time to time and including all regulations thereto;
(g)
"Electricity Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1604, of December 21, 
1994, as amended from time to time  and including all regulations thereto;
(h)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(i)
"Hydrocarbons Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1689, of April 30, 1996, 
as amended from time to time  and including all regulations thereto;
(j)
"Legislation" means collectively the Banking Law, Central Bank Law, 
Pensions Law, Securities Market Law, Privatization Law, Capitalization Law, SIRESE 
Law, Electricity Law, Hydrocarbons Law and Telecommunications Law;
(k)
"MH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda); 
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting 
forth the rules and procedures for the implementation of the Project including the 
coordination between the Project Unit and the Beneficiary Agencies; 
Page  3
(m)
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Pensions Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1732, dated November 29, 1996 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated November 29, 1996, as amended 
from time to time and including all regulations thereto; 
(o)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to monitor the progress of 
the Project and the achievement of its objectives, set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Association of even date herewith; 
(p)
"Privatization Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1330, dated April 24, 
1992 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated May 5, 1992, as amended 
from time to time and including all the regulations thereto; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter from the Association 
dated April 29, 1998 countersigned by the Borrower on April 29, 1998; 
(r)
"Project Unit" means the administrative unit to be established by the 
Borrower within MH pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement for purposes of the 
implementation and coordination of the Project;
(s)
"Public Services Cooperatives" means the Cooperativas, entities with 
legal personality established under Law 5035 dated September 13, 1958, which have as 
principal activity the distribution of electricity, provision of water and sanitation 
services or the provision of local telecommunications services;  
(t)
"SBEF" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades 
Financieras, Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions, established pursuant 
to the Ley de Bancos of 1928, as modified by the Banking Law; 
(u)
"Sectoral Superintendencies" means collectively the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Transportation, Superintendencia de Transportes, Superintendency of 
Hydrocarbons, Superintendecia de Hidrocarburos, Superintendency of Electricity, 
Superintendencia de Electricidad, Superintendency of Telecommunications, 
Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones, and the Superintendency of Water, 
Superintendencia de Aguas; and  "Sectoral Superintendency" means any of the above 
entities; 
(v)
"Securities Market Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1834, dated March 
31, 1998 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated March 31, 1998, as 
amended from time to time and including all regulations thereto;
(w)
"Selected SOEs" means the Borrower’s state-owned enterprises, to be 
privatized, set forth in the action plan referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(x)
"SI" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Seguros, Superintendency of 
Insurance, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law 15516 dated June 2, 1998 
as amended from time to time;
(y)
"SIRESE" means Sistema de Regulación Sectorial (Sectoral Regulatory 
System), the system established pursuant to the provisions of the SIRESE Law and other 
relevant laws and regulations, with the purpose of regulating, controlling and 
supervising the activities in the telecommunications, power, hydrocarbons, 
transportation and water supply sectors, and other sectors which may be incorporated 
later to the system, which system shall be governed by the SIRESE General 
Superintendency and the respective Sectoral Superintendencies; 
(z)
"SIRESE Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1600, of October 28, 1994 and 
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 28, 1994, as amended from time 
to time  and including all regulations thereto;
(aa)
"Special Account " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(bb)
"SP" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Pensiones, Superintendency 
of Pensions, established pursuant to the Pension Law;
(cc)
"SS" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Valores, Superintendency of 
Securities, established pursuant to the Securities Market Law;
Page  4
(dd)
"Telecommunications Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1632, of July 5, 
1995, as amended from time to time  and including all regulations thereto; and
(ee)
"YPFB" means Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos, the Borrower's 
hydrocarbons company established pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's 
Decree-Law of December 21, 1936, as amended from time to time, and including all 
regulations thereto.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR14, 900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, in the Borrower’s Central Bank, a separate special deposit account on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March  31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing on August 15, 2008 and ending February 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2008 
Page  5
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, through MH with the participation of the Beneficiary Agencies, the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, financial, 
environmental and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.   
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the applicable Annual Operating Plan.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MH, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Association, with each Beneficiary Agency (the Participation Agreement) providing 
for, inter alia , the participation of the respective Beneficiary Agency in the 
implementation of the relevant activities under the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of 
the Participation Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the Project Unit, at all times 
until completion of the Project, with an organizational structure, functions and 
staffing satisfactory to the Association. (b)
Without limitation to the above 
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall maintain a head of the Project Unit with 
qualifications, experience and under terms of reference all satisfactory to the 
Page  6
Association.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the Project Unit, shall, not 
later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, starting in December 31, 1998, furnish to the Association, 
for its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in the execution of the 
Project, with regard to the preceding quarter of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association may reasonably request.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, through MH, furnish to the Association, 
not later than October 31 in each year, for its review and approval, an annual 
implementation plan for the following calendar year, in a format satisfactory to the 
Association, such plan to include, inter alia: 
(i)
the schedule of activities to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit; 
(ii)
terms of reference for all the activities so scheduled; 
(iv)
the resources required to complete such activities; and 
(v)
key Project execution benchmarks.
(b)
Upon the Association’s approval, the Borrower shall carry out such Annual 
Implementation Plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.05 and 
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, during the month of March of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999,  annual reviews of the Project to focus, inter alia, 
on: (i) progress in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators; (ii) any changes to Project design or implementation arrangements; and 
(iii) Project management and monitoring; and 
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above annual reviews, or any other reviews 
pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Association shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, 
without limitation or restriction to any of the Association’s rights under this 
Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary or 
appropriate for the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its 
objectives.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed upon for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the action plan 
referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
exchange views with the Association, not later than June 30 and December 
31 of each year or other dates as may be determined by the Association, on the 
progress made in the carrying out of the above action plan; and
(c)
on the basis of the above reviews, make any adjustments, satisfactory to 
the Association, as necessary in the above action plan and in accordance with criteria 
acceptable to the Association. 
Page  7
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project in accordance 
with the action plan referred to in paragraph 3 (f) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. (a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
ensure that from time to time, as and when needed, environmental 
regulations in respect of the sectors of the Selected SOEs are 
developed;
(ii)
establish, from time to time, as and when needed, mechanisms for 
reviewing environmental audits for existing facilities of, and 
operations of the, Selected SOEs and for carrying out 
environmental assessments;
(iii)
ensure that there shall be coordination between the Borrower’s 
agencies involved in environmental matters in relation to the 
Selected SOEs;
(iv)
ensure that the various responsibilities for monitoring 
environmental aspects of the Selected SOEs are clearly delineated 
for the Borrower’s agencies involved; and
(v)
retain an environmental specialist, as and when needed, with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, to review all environmental audits and 
environmental impact assessments of the Selected SOEs. 
(b)
The Borrower hereby undertakes not to invite bids for the Selected SOEs, 
subject to an environmental impact assessment and/or environmental audit as provided 
in the list referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and not to 
commence a process for divesting itself from any of the assets of such Selected SOEs, 
until an institutional and regulatory framework, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the environmental aspects of the respective Selected SOEs has been put into effect.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that all bidding documents and contracts for 
the privatization of the Selected SOEs, subject to en environmental impact assessment 
and/or environmental audit as provided in the list referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, contain:  
(i)
undertakings to carry out an environmental audit or environmental 
impact assessment to determine the environmental liabilities 
including costs of clean-up and environmental restoration;  
(ii)
specific criteria for assigning the responsibilities for the 
environmental liabilities; and 
(iii)
specific environmental laws and regulations applicable to the 
operation of the Selected SOEs after their respective 
privatization. 
(d)
The Borrower shall adequately monitor and enforce compliance with all 
environmental liabilities in paragraph (c) above on the basis of specific criteria for 
environmental performance, environmental quality indicators and monitoring indicators.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain  records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  8
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Association,  materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement or to achieve any of the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The IDB-MIF Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB-MIF Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
IDB-MIF Grant Agreement; or
(B) 
the IDB-MIF Grant shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under any of such agreements; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Page  9
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
that the Borrower shall have established the Project Unit and employed, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a director, an accountant, 
specialist and a procurement specialist for the Project Unit, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association;  
(b)
that the Borrower shall have established and made operational a financial 
management system, satisfactory to the Association, for the Project; and 
(c)
that the Borrower shall have approved the Operational Manual. Section 
6.02. The date of October 20, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Page  10
By /s/  Edgar Millares Ardaya 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Deborah A. Bateman 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(a)
Parts A.1 (iii)
74,000
of the Project
(b)
Part B.1 (a) (ii)
74,000
of the Project
(c)
Part C.1 of 
37,000
the Project
(d)
Part C.2 of
75,000
the Project
(e)
Other Parts
   1,310,000
of the Project
(2)
Consultants’
100%
services (including
advertising services)
(a)
Part B.1 (a) (ii)
74,000
of the Project
(b)
Part C.1 of
    1,415,000  
the Project
(c)
Part C.2 of
    2,235,000
the Project
(d)
Other Parts
    5,956,000
of the Project
(3)
Training
85%
(a)
Parts A.1 (a) (ii)
 34,000
and (iii) of
the Project
Page  11
(b)
Part B.1 (a) (ii)
 30,000
of the Project
(c)
Part C.2 of
 37,000
the Project
(d)
Other Parts of
      939,000
the Project
(4)
Project Preparation
    1,120,000
100%
Advance
(5)
Unallocated
    1,490,000
TOTAL
   14,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic 
and international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (iii) training 
materials. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after June 3, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2) or (3) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the respective Participation Agreement 
has been entered into by the respective parties thereto;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) or (3) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of Part A.1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of the 
Project unless the Borrower shall have established the deposit guarantee fund (DGF) 
under Part A.1 (a) (i) of the Project in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (a) or (3) 
(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of Part B. 1 (a) (ii) of 
the Project unless the Borrower shall have enacted the legislation under Part B.1 (a) 
(i) of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and such 
legislation shall be in full force and effect;
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) or (2) (b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of Part C.1 of the Project unless the 
Borrower shall have submitted to the Association: (i) a list, satisfactory to the 
Association, of all state-owned enterprises to be privatized including their 
categorization in order of estimated economic value and the identification of those 
enterprises to be subject to an environmental audit or an environmental impact 
assessment; and (ii) an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
implementation of such Part of the Project including the criteria to determine the 
sequence of the respective privatizations; and
(f)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (d), (2) (c) or (3) 
(c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of Part C.2 of the Project 
unless the Borrower shall have submitted to the Association an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation of such Part of the Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Page  12
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures:
(a)
for goods under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each;
(b)
for the services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each;
(c)
for the services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and
(d)
for all Training expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (a) prepare laws and 
regulations for the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework of the 
financial, infrastructure and business sectors; (b) implement a privatization and 
corporatization program; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity to implement the 
above legal and regulatory reforms and to manage the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Financial Sector Regulation 
1.
Banking Sector 
(a) (i) Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of the necessary laws and regulations to establish an explicit and limited 
deposit guarantee fund (DGF) with failure resolution capabilities; (ii) provision of 
training to personnel of the DGF on the administration of the DGF; and (iii) 
acquisition and utilization of equipment for the DGF.
(b)
Provision of: (i) legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of the necessary laws and regulations to modernize the prudential system by 
making the regulations regarding capital adequacy, provisioning and asset 
classification, and other criteria consistent with international standards, improving 
the transparency and governance of financial institutions, facilitating foreign 
investment in financial institutions and setting up a regulatory framework for 
supervising conglomerate groups, liquidity, interest rate and exchange rate risks; and 
(ii) training. 
(c)
Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of the necessary laws and regulations for a new autonomous entity with 
responsibility for prudential regulation and provide adequate legal protection to 
Superintendencies’ and DGF’s management and personnel.
(d)
Strengthening the capabilities of SBEF through: (i) the provision of 
technical assistance to strengthen its enforcement tools, improve its methodologies 
for early warning signals and coordination with the Borrower’s Central Bank, improve 
its capability for prompt corrective action and update its operating manuals and 
procedures; (ii) improvements in its information systems; (iii) training of its 
personnel on monitoring and enforcement of prudential norms; and (iv) acquisition and 
utilization of equipment. 
(e)
strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower’s Central Bank through  
the development of procedures and manuals and related training of its personnel and 
acquisition and utilization of equipment. 
2.
Non-Banking Sector
(a)
strengthening the capabilities of the SP, SS and SI through: (i) the 
provision of technical assistance to draft internal procedures and manuals; (ii) the 
design and operation of information systems; and (iii) acquisition and utilization of 
equipment.
(b)
strengthening the capabilities of SI through the: (i) the provision of 
technical assistance to develop: (A) an operational plan; (B) operating and 
supervision procedures. and (C) acquisition and utilization of equipment; and (ii) 
Page  13
training related thereto.
(c)
strengthen the capabilities of SP through: (i) the provision of technical 
assistance to assist in the development of operating procedures including  supervision 
procedures for AFPs, agents and brokers, procedures for affiliation and transfer of 
pension fund members, investment procedures and supervision procedures, testing 
mechanisms and program and documentation requirements; and the design of an accounting 
and financial control system; (ii) the design of a computerized tracking, oversight, 
and control system; (iii) the development of regulatory norms; (iv) provision of 
training in pension accounting and financial management, account tracking, financial 
reporting, and reconciliation procedures, evaluation of pension fund solvency and 
liquidity needs, review of sales agents’ compliance with operating requirements, 
tracking passive fund pension accounts and  evaluation of portfolio investments of 
pension funds; and (v) acquisition and utilization of equipment. 
(d)
strengthen the capabilities of SS through: (i) provision of legal and 
technical advisory services to assist in the drafting of capital market regulations 
including regulations on requirements for equity insurance, capital requirements for 
issuers, brokerage margins, audit requirements for issuers, mutual fund regulations 
and risk rating agencies; (ii) provision of technical assistance for the design and 
implementation of an institutional development plan; (iii) provision of technical 
assistance for the preparation of offsite analysis procedures and manuals, on-site 
inspection procedures and manuals and revision of the accounts manual for financial 
reporting purposes by agents, brokers, and issuers; (iv) provision of technical 
assistance for the upgrading of supervision and inspection procedures for capital 
markets; (v) provision of training related thereto; and (vi) acquisition and 
utilization of equipment.
Part B:
Infrastructure and Business Regulation 
1.
 Cross-Sectoral and Competition Regulatory Reform  
(a) (i) Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of a new competition law primarily dealing with protection from restrictive 
agreements and consumer protection; (ii) provision of technical assistance and 
training for the establishment and operation of  an independent administrative 
mechanism for consumer protection; and (iii) acquisition and utilization of equipment.
(b)
Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of: (i) amendments to the SIRESE Law for purposes of improving the regulation 
on the oversight of Sectoral Superintendencies and establishing a consultative body to 
coordinate the drafting of new sectoral norms and relationships between SIRESE and 
sectoral ministries; and (ii) a comprehensive law on administrative procedures. 
2.
Sector-Specific Infrastructure Regulatory Reform 
(a) (i) Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in the 
drafting of a general transport law and associated regulations and a transport 
concessions law and associated regulations; (ii) provision of technical assistance to 
the staff of the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil 
Aviation to strengthen its policy-making capabilities particularly in the area of 
transport concessions; (iii) provision of technical assistance and training to the 
Superintendency of Transportation to strengthen its regulatory capabilities; and (iv) 
acquisition and utilization of equipment for the Vice Ministry of Transport, 
Communications and Civil Aviation and the Superintendency of Transportation.
(b) (i) Provision of legal and technical advisory services to assist in drafting 
the necessary laws and regulations to improve the regulatory framework in the 
hydrocarbons sector for existing operations including regulations on the operating of 
refineries, natural gas storage, reinjection  and distribution, liquids storage and 
jet fuel supply and to authorize the privatization of YPFB’s remaining operations; 
(ii) strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower’s Vice Ministry for Energy and 
Hydrocarbons through training of its staff on regulatory matters and acquisition and 
utilization of equipment; (iii) provision of technical assistance to the MH to 
establish a unit to oversee the fiscal situation of the hydrocarbons sector; and (iv) 
acquisition and utilization of equipment for the Borrower’s Vice Ministry for Energy 
and Hydrocarbons. 
(c) (i) Provision of legal and other advisory services to assist in the drafting 
of necessary laws and regulations regarding the operation of personal communications 
systems and the opening of the long distance and local service sectors to competition; 
(ii) provision of training to the Borrower’s Vice Ministry for Energy and Hydrocarbons 
Page  14
on the operation of concessions; and (iii) acquisition and utilization of equipment 
for the Borrower’s Vice Ministry for Energy and Hydrocarbons.
Part C:
Privatization 
1.
Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises and General Advisory Services
(a)
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation for sale of the 
Selected SOEs including, inter alia: (i) strategic advisory services; (ii) valuation 
of assets; (iii) legal audits; (iv) promotion activities; and (v) environmental impact 
assessments and environmental audits and preparation of action plans to mitigate any 
environmental adverse impact. 
(b)
Strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower’s Vice-ministry of 
Investment and Privatization in the formulation of privatization policy through 
training of its staff and acquisition and utilization of equipment. 
2.
Public Services Cooperatives Reform
Provision of technical assistance and training to support the Borrower’s Vice 
Ministry of Investment and Privatization to: 
(a)
evaluate Public Services Cooperatives as to: (i) the financial and 
operative viability; (ii) their likelihood of meeting performance targets established 
in the corresponding sectoral regulatory frameworks; (iii) current and projected value 
of cooperatives shares; and (iv) identify adequate strategies for corporate 
restructuring of the Public Services Cooperatives to ensure efficient provision of 
public services and the preservation of share values; and 
(b)
implement the corporate restructuring programs of, and attract private 
investment for, Public Services Cooperatives.
Part D:
Project Management and Supervision 
1.
Project Unit Establishment and operation of the Project Unit including the 
acquisition and utilization of equipment and provision of training. 
2.
Public Information Campaign 
Design and implementation of a public information campaign on the Borrower’s 
regulatory reform and privatization program including: (a) design, development, and 
implementation of a communications strategy; (b) design, production and dissemination 
of information; (c) design and carrying out of surveys and research; and (d) carrying 
out of seminars, training and conferences.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Page  15
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent but more than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section and the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.1 of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be awarded under 
Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
Page  16
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance under Parts A and 
B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and training under  the Project, in tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and not 
to exceed an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training under the Project, which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract and not to exceed an aggregate amount of $500,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. 
Page  17
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods 
referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined to be not responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule: 
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met. 
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities. 
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  18
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000, 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Page  19
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
