                                                 Document of
                                              The World Bank




                                                                                              Report No: 33495

                               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (IDA-31080 PPFI-Q1040)

                                                      ON A

                                                     CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                           TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                    BOLIVIA

                                                     FOR A

      REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                              November 22, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Department
Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                               (Exchange Rate Effective 8.06)

                                                 Currency Unit = Boliviano
                                                             B8.06 = US$ 1.00
                                                      US$ 0.124 = B1.00

                                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                                  January 1 -          December 31

                                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP             Admin. Procedures (Law)                                              (Ley de) Procesos Administrativos
BIDESA         International Development Bank S.A.                                  Banco Internacional de Desarrollo S.A.
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy                                          Estrategia de Apoyo al País
CONAPE         National Advisory Board of Economic Policy                           Consejo Nacional de Política Económica
DGF            Deposit Guarantee Fund                                               Fondo de Depósitos de Garantía
DPA            Presidential Anti-Corruption Commis.                                 Delegación Presidencial Anti-Corrupción
ENFE           National Railway of Bolivia                                          Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
FCC            Fed. Communications Commis.                                          Comité Federal de Comunicaciones (EE.UU.)
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment                                            Inversión Extranjera Directa
FONDESIF       Financial System Development Fund                                    Fondo de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero
FOPEBA         Pension Fund for Basic Pensions                                      Fondo de Pensiones Básicas
FRF            Financial Restructuring Fund                                         Fondo de Reestructuración Financiera
FSF            Financial System Strengthening (Law)                                 Sistema de Fortalecimiento Financiero (Ley)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product                                               Producto Interno Bruto
IDA            International Development Corporation                                Asociación Internacional de Desarrollo
IDTR           Rural Infrastructure for Rural Transformation                        Infraestructura Rural para Transformación Rural
LAB            Lloyd Bolivian Airlines                                              Lloyd Aéreo Boliviano
MDE            Ministry of Economic Development                                     Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico
MMH            Ministry of Mines & Hydrocarbons                                     Ministerio de Energía e Hidrocarburos
PAD            Project Appraisal Document                                           Documento de la Valoración del proyecto
PCAC           Presidential Commission f/the Assessment of Capitalization           Comité Presidencial para Revisión de la Capitalización
PCP            Popular Credit and Property (Law)                                    Ley de Crédito Popular
PDO            Project Development Objectives                                       Objetivos del Proyecto
PMU            Project Management Unit                                              Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto
RRCTAP         Reg. Reform & Capitalization Technical Assist. Project               Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a la Reforma Reg. y Capitalización
SABSA          Bolivian Airport Services S.A.                                       Servicios de Aeropuertos Bolivianos
SBEF           Superintendence of Banks & Financial Institutions                    Superintendencia de Banco y Entidades Financieras
SBPC           System for Productivity and Competitiveness                          Sistema para Productividad y Competitividad
SETAR          Elec. Serv. Cooperative of Tarija                                    Servicios Eléctricos de Tarija
SIREFI         Financial Sector Regulatory System                                   Sistema de Regulación Financiera
SIRESE         Sectorial Regulatory System                                          Sistema de Regulación Sectorial
SISAB          Superintendence of Basic Sanitation                                  Superintendencia de Servicios Básicos
SOAT           Mandatory Accident Insurance                                         Seguro Obligatorio para Accidentes de Tránsito
SPVS           Superintendence of Pensions, Capital Markets and Insurance           Superintendencia de Pensiones, Valores y Seguros
SRJ            Superintendence of Admin. Review                                     Superintendencia de Recursos Jerárquicos
ST             Superintendence of Taxes                                             Superintendencia Tributaria
STR            Superintendence of Transport                                         Superintendencia de Transportes
SUPEREMPRESAS  Superintendence of Companies                                         Superintendencia de Empresas
UPC            Productivity & Competitiveness Unit                                  Unidad de Productividad y Competitividad
VAMF           Vice-Ministry of Financial Affairs                                   Vice-Ministerio de Asuntos Financieros
VME            Vice-Ministry of Energy                                              Vice-Ministerio de Energía
VMIP           Vice-Ministry of Energy & Hydrocarbons                               Vice-Ministerio de Energía e Hidrocarburos
VMTEL          Vice-Ministry of Telecommunications                                  Vice-Ministerio de Telecomunicaciones
VMTP           Vice-Ministry of Tax Policy                                          Vice-Ministerio de Política Tributaria
YPFB           Bolivian National Hydrocarbons Company                               Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos




                                               Vice President:            Pamela Cox
                                            Country Director              Marcelo Giugale
                                              Sector Manager              Susan G. Goldmark

Task Team Leader/Task Manager  Dana Rysankova

                                           BOLIVIA
    REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P057396                                                  Project Name: REGULATORY REFORM &
                                                                     PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Team Leader: Dana Rysankova                                          TL Unit: LCSFE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION L/C/TF Number: IDA-31080; PPFI-Q1040
                            TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
    Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (68%); Law and justice (32%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Law reform
                            (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/23/1998                                     Effective: 10/01/1998                02/03/1999
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR: 03/31/2001                  09/20/2002
      Approval: 06/30/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 02/28/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBIC OF BOLIVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Susan G. Goldmark                              Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Dana Rysankova                                 Susan G. Goldmark
ICR Primary Author:             Leonid Koryukin



2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Frequent restructuring in key beneficiary agencies as well as temporary problems with the PMU caused the
downgrade of the implementation progress to Unsatisfactory for a one-year period starting in mid-2003. The
rating of achievement of development objective was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory in the last ISR,

following a rapid deterioration of the regulatory environment in Bolivia. The privatization component of the
Project has been rated Unsatisfactory by the PSRs/ISRs since mid-2003.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Throughout the 1990s, the Government of Bolivia implemented a number of ambitious structural reforms.
Key state-owned enterprises were privatized, mostly through an innovative capitalization method. Under
this scheme, the Government transferred 50 percent of shares of five out of the six largest enterprises
(hydrocarbons and infrastructure) to strategic investors, in return for their investment and performance
commitments. The rest of the shares were transferred to Bolivian citizens, mostly through pension funds. A
parallel privatization program transferred over 50 smaller enterprises to the private sector. Modern
regulatory systems were created for the infrastructure sectors and the financial sectors. This reform
program was accompanied by a number of Bank operations, including the Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Project, the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, and Financial
Markets & Pension Reform Technical Assistance.

In 1997, the newly elected Government of Bolivia declared its intention to expand these reforms. The
objectives of the new Government reform program were to (i) strengthen the stability and efficiency of the
financial sector; (ii) improve the coverage, quality and productivity of key infrastructure services with
appropriate tariff structures; and (iii) promote improved provision of goods and services through the
privatization of state-owned enterprises and the reform of public-service cooperatives. The Bank responded
to these reforms with the timely preparation of two operations: The Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment
Credit (1998-2003, RRSAC), and the present Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit.

The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) of the Regulatory Reform and Privatization TA Project were
to support the Government in its efforts through the provision of technical assistance to:
(i)      prepare laws and regulations for the financial, infrastructure and business sectors;
(ii)     implement a privatization and corporatization program; and
(iii)    build institutional capacity to implement the reform program and support project management.

The PDOs were consistent with the 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal to encourage private
sector-led growth by supporting the development of an environment conducive to domestic and foreign
private investment and characterized by stability, transparent rules, and access to investment opportunities.

Relevance and timeliness. The Bank's support was timely and the project development objectives were
very relevant. The reforms were still relatively recent, and needed to be completed, consolidated and
fine-tuned.

Regulatory reform in infrastructure required expansion and improvement. The Sectoral Regulatory
System (Sistema de Regulación Sectorial, SIRESE) was created to regulate five independent sectoral
Superintendencies (hydrocarbons, electricity, water and sanitation, transport, and telecommunications)
overseen by the General Superintendency. SIRESE's goals were to prevent abuses of monopoly power, to
regulate tariffs, to implement due oversight and consumer protection, and to promote competition.
However, in 1998, SIRESE lacked a unified legal and institutional framework and its capacity in personnel
and hardware needed major improvements.




                                                       - 2 -

Reforms in the financial sector were incomplete. The financial liberalization of the first half of the 1990s
resulted in a modernized legal framework that included a new Central Bank law (passed in October 1995)
and pension reform. All state-owned banks were closed by 1993. Although the quality of bank supervision
improved substantially and capital adequacy standards and other prudential norms were tightened, the
banking sector remained vulnerable, with several bank failures after 1995. These failures included the
fairly large Banco Internacional de Desarrollo, S.A. (BIDESA) in 1997.

In 1996, a defined-contribution privately-managed pension system replaced the defined-benefit
publicly-managed system, and private pension funds operators were created. This required an improved
regulatory framework with proper oversight of the portfolios of the newly established pension funds.
Capital markets regulation also needed to be overhauled to allow access to a broader set of investment
instruments. In addition, the insurance industry was underdeveloped, with most of its activities traditionally
confined to the needs of the state-owned enterprises -- many of which were now privately controlled.

In response to these      challenges, the Financial Sector Regulatory System (Sistema de Regulación
Financiera, SIREFI) was created. However, the system was still young and needed serious legal and
institutional upgrades and capacity building.

Privatization needed to be completed.       Despite the past capitalization and privatization program, a
significant number of enterprises remained in government hands, including residual public assets in the
hydrocarbons sector, and various enterprises in infrastructure, mining and productive sectors. In addition,
local public services in telecommunications, water and electricity were provided primarily by cooperatives,
which were plagued by inefficiencies, poor service quality and financial problems. They required urgent
reform to allow for service expansion and adequate quality, particularly in smaller towns.

The new Administration that took office in 1997 was the same one that started the privatization process in
the early 1990s. Therefore, hopes for a smooth continuation of the reforms were strong. These expectations
solidified when, in 1998, the Government prepared a list of state-owned companies slated for privatization
that included six large entities and 55 smaller companies, and prepared an ambitious cooperatives reform
program. Moreover, the new Administration eventually embraced the regulatory reforms implemented by
its predecessor.

The Project was an integral part of the Bank's support to Bolivia. It was a logical continuation of the
earlier Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits, which
promoted earlier reforms in the infrastructure and finance sectors, and capitalization/privatization. The
Project was designed in coordination with a parallel Regulatory Reform Adjustment Credit, which also
supported the key reform elements of the Government's program.

Complexity and flexibility. The project objectives encompassed a number of sectors and difficult issues,
which made it relatively complex. It was, however, a convenient way to follow up on a number of reforms
that the Bank supported in earlier operations. It also provided a vehicle for a dialogue with the Government
on several key issues and ensured that the Government had the resources for the second stage reforms. The
objectives were flexible enough to accommodate an integration of new priorities in the later stage of the
Project.

Clearly, the Project design was more suited to conditions at that time, characterized by rapid growth and
macroeconomic and political stability. As the country's macroeconomic, political and social disturbances
intensified, the Project's design, requiring involvement of multiple agencies with multiple objectives,
became a greater challenge.



                                                     - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had four components: (I) Financial Sector Regulation; (II) Infrastructure and Business
Regulation; (III) Privatization (including corporatization); and (IV) Program Implementation Support.
The four components were aligned with the objectives of the government reform program. Some of the
project development objectives cut across more than one component. Component III (privatization)
responded to the Objective (II) ­ "implement a privatization and corporatization program". The remaining
two objectives cut through the remaining components, which were organized primarily by sector. Each
sector component description included elements of regulatory reform and capacity building objectives.

I. Financial Sector Regulation: Sub-component (i) Banking Sector (US$4.38 million); Sub-component (ii)
Non-banking Sector (US$1.38 million)
This component included two sub-components covering the banking (banks, financial cooperatives,
microfinance institutions) and the non-banking (pensions, capital markets and insurance) sectors. The
banking sector required further institutional strengthening, including: creation of a deposit insurance
scheme; further strengthening of the capital adequacy standards; improvements in the capacity for early
detection of bank problems; development of stringent corrective action rules; and enhancement of
prudential oversight.

The non-banking financial sector sub-component focused on the regulation of pensions, insurance and
capital markets. With the assets of the newly established pension funds set to grow and diversify, improved
regulation and supervision were increasingly needed.        In addition, as a part of the pension reform,
important "social" (death, disability, workers' compensation) insurance programs were to be turned over to
the private sector. The weak insurance industry regulatory system needed to be improved. A shallow
secondary market and the possibilities for greater opportunities for price manipulation and insider trading
called for strengthening of the regulatory framework in the capital markets, especially as the expected new
legislation (the Popular Property and Credit Law) aimed at increasing the trading volume in the
underdeveloped stock exchanges in La Paz and Santa Cruz.

The component also included considerable capacity building activities for the regulatory institutions in the
finance sector (SIREFI), consisting of the Suprintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF), and
three separate superintendencies for pensions, insurance and capital market.

II. Infrastructure and Business Regulation.          Sub-component (i) Cross-sectoral and Competition
Regulatory Reform (US$0.50 million); Sub-component (ii) Sector-specific Infrastructure Regulatory
Reform (US$5.61 million)
The component aimed at strengthening the recently created SIRESE, in part, providing technical assistance
to support the conditionality of the parallel adjustment operation, RRSAC "to maintain the independent and
effective regulatory system through enactment of an Administrative Procedures Law, development of a
Competition Law, establishment of a government-SIRESE consultative group and other measures aimed at
institutional strengthening of SIRESE and elimination of conflicts of interest." This component aimed at
continuing and expanding technical support for SIRESE and included assistance in the development of a
competition policy framework. The two tasks were interlinked, as the implementation of the competition
and consumer protection policies in the infrastructure sectors was a responsibility of the regulators.

In line with the RRSAC conditionalities, sub-component (i) Cross-Sectoral and Competition Regulatory



                                                     - 4 -

Reform, envisioned technical assistance for the drafting of a Competition Law,           an Administrative
Procedures Law, an amendment to the SIRESE Law, as well as the regulations to all three laws and
corresponding capacity building. Sub-component (ii) Sector-Specific Infrastructure aimed at enhancing and
consolidating the regulatory framework in each sector, and building capacity in the recently created sectoral
superintendencies, as well as strengthening the corresponding line ministries, which had to assume a new
role after privatization. This sub-component originally included transportation, hydrocarbons and
telecommunications (water and sanitation and electricity were added later by amendment).

III. Privatization (and corporatization).     Sub-component (i) Divesture of State-Owned Enterprises
(US$11.6 million); Sub-component (ii) Public Services Cooperative Reform (US$3.4 million) This
component, originally with the largest allocation of resources, was designed to support the continuation of
the privatization process. The larger companies slated for privatization included, among others, the
hydrocarbon-sector assets owned by the National Hydrocarbons Company (Yacimientos Petrolíferos
Fiscales Bolivianos, YPFB); the national smelting company (Empresa Metalúrgica Vinto); a fairly large
food producer (Empresa de Productos Alimenticios Milka); a major cement company; two electric
distribution companies; and the remaining state-owned rail assets (ENFE). This component originally
envisioned substantial cofinancing, principally by the private sector: of the US$15 million allocated to this
component only US$5.51 million were to be covered by the Project (still, the highest funds allocation
among the four components -- see Annex 2). The costs of this component were supposed to include services
of investment banks and legal and technical consultants required to undertake sales.

This component included reform of public services cooperatives. Most public services (electricity
distribution, telecommunications, and water and sanitation) at the local level were provided by
approximately 450 public service cooperatives. Most of these cooperatives had poor performance records,
lacked investment capital to expand service coverage and improve quality of services, and were not
effectively supervised. Accordingly, sub-component (ii) was intended to assist the Government in extending
service standards to all service providers, including through concession contracts and licenses. Where
public service cooperatives did not comply with standards, the Government planned to require their
corporate transformation in a manner that would allow them to meet quality and coverage targets, assure
concession contracts and preserve shareholder value.

IV. Program Implementation Support. Sub-component (i) Project Management Unit (US$1.8 million);
Sub-component (ii) Public Information Campaign (US$1.7 million).
This component supported the creation and financing of a well-performing PMU that would execute
professional management of the Project and assist the other components in reaching their goals through a
public information campaign. By its nature, the public information campaign could not be carried out
separately from the efforts undertaken by the various beneficiaries within and, often, outside the Project.
For example, each of the superintendencies clearly needed a public information campaign related to its own
efforts.  Privatization work required its own diffusion efforts - often overlapping with the public
information objectives of the regulators. The PMU, thus, was put in charge of coordinating the information
dissemination part of each of the activities financed by the Project. The intended principal approach of the
Public Information Campaign was meant to be (mass-media or person-to-person) interactions with the
population aimed at explaining the privatization outcomes, the regulations and the functioning of the
regulatory system.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project had two amendments that revised some of the components. The amendments did not change
the development objectives of the Project, nor did they introduce new performance indicators. The first
amendment, issued in December 2001, changed the wording of some of the components and adjusted for


                                                    - 5 -

the changes in the names of the beneficiaries, but did not introduce any significant changes in the substance
of the components.

The second amendment (in 2003) revised some of the components more significantly. The changes
introduced additional sectors and themes to be covered. This restructuring reflected the realities of the day,
such as the shift of Government priorities from privatization and corporatization to general competitiveness
issues. It also corrected certain deficiencies in the initial design. Specifically, in the Infrastructure and
Business Regulation component, sub-component (i) was amended to include assistance in the provision of
legal and advisory services and capacity-building activities to promote and improve transparency in
Government practices and procedures. Sub-component (ii) now included assistance to the water and
sanitation and the electricity sectors. Sub-component (iii), Competitiveness, was introduced to provide
general assistance in improving competitiveness and productivity, including work on a competitiveness
framework, small and medium enterprise (SME) development and transparency.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
This ICR rates Quality at Entry as (moderately) Satisfactory (there was no QAG rating assigned).

The objectives were in line with the CAS and the Government's program and fit well into the overall
framework of the Bank's support to Bolivia. The timing of the Project was good - as it coincided with a
new, reform-oriented administration that requested the operation. There was a very thorough analysis of the
key issues affecting the infrastructure and finance sectors and the proposed regulatory changes were well
thought through. The Government and the Bank correctly acknowledged the need for the consolidation and
fine-tuning of the reforms, and realistically assessed that reforms of such magnitude required time to
mature through substantial capacity building. The TA operation, in combination with the adjustment credit,
would appear to be an appropriate tool for this type of the second stage reforms and continued institutional
strengthening and capacity building.

The main problems the Project encountered followed from the rapidly deteriorating economic and political
environment. In 1998, the Bolivian economy appeared to be healthy, with solid growth, and there was a
continued consolidation of democratic tradition and rule of law. Bolivia was embarking on ambitious
decentralization and local governance reforms to promote greater integration and inclusion of its population
in the economic, political and social life of the country. It was certainly difficult to foresee the dramatic
changes and the extent of the economic, political and social crises the country would go through during the
lifetime of the Project. Some of these events stemmed from an extremely unfavorable external environment
and shocks, such as devaluation in Argentina and Brazil, which seriously affected Bolivia's macroeconomic
balance and competitiveness.

Nevertheless, the project design itself included some weaknesses:

·        There were some inconsistencies in the formulation of the Project Development Objectives (PDOs).
The PDOs, as stated in the PAD and the Development Credit Agreement, were formulated with the
limitations of a technical assistance operation in mind. The focus was on providing the Government with
high quality technical work, which would contribute to the completion of the reform program. The PDOs
were therefore rather input/process oriented. The intended results, however, were broader, in line with the
objectives of the Government program. This created some confusion in the project documents (including in
the PAD itself) which sometimes referred to the Government reform program objectives as those of the
Project. Also, the performance indicators in Annex 1 of the PAD were rather ambitious in comparison with
the stated objectives.



                                                    - 6 -

·        The Project was rather complex, involving a number of difficult sectors with very specific issues ­
finance, hydrocarbons, five infrastructure sectors, as well as privatization and corporatization of a large
number of entities. While this enabled a continuation of the previous reforms, it might also be argued that
the Project diffused its efforts among too many objectives and agencies which might have diminished its
effectiveness. The privatization and corporatization component was probably too ambitious. The
cooperatives reform, in particular, was an extremely complex task, for which the central Government
lacked adequate policy and enforcement tools. However, the Government had requested inclusion of this
component, as it was a key element of the Government's reform agenda.

·        The Project included a large number of components and sub-components, with a rather restrictive
component description, and an overly detailed allocation of resources to particular components and
beneficiaries. This slowed down Project implementation because the set of beneficiaries had to be adjusted
several times as components were revised and the Government underwent frequent reorganizations. Greater
flexibility in this respect would have been a plus. This shortcoming was partially overcome with the second
Credit Amendment which allowed for broader inclusion of activities consistent with the Project
Development Objectives.

·        With the benefit of hindsight, the risks might have been underestimated.           Given the strong
commitment of the Government to the reforms, the risks were rated as moderate. Privatization efforts, in
fact, were very intensive with some important successes in the first years of the Project. Later, however,
the growing public opposition to privatization caused the Government to abandon these efforts.           The
Project correctly identified the political risks of the reforms and intended to mitigate them with the Public
Information Campaign. As in other countries of the region, however, the backlash against the privatization
was unexpectedly strong. As discussed later, the campaign, aimed mainly at explaining the benefits of the
privatization and regulatory reform to the public, was no longer a sufficient tool to turn around the growing
public discontent.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall Project outcome is rated (moderately) Unsatisfactory, although the degree of achievement of the
objectives varies greatly among the three objectives and among various sectors. Performance, in general,
was strongest in the financial and telecommunications sectors, and weakest for the privatization component.
The majority of the performance indicators, however, were not met (see Table 1 and Annex 1).

The first objective, "prepare laws and regulations for the financial, infrastructure and business sectors,"
was mostly achieved. The Project supported a number of relevant laws and regulations that the Project
design identified as key missing pieces for the regulatory reform of these sectors. In some cases, the
approved     legislation   dramatically   transformed     the  sectors.  Particular  achievements    included
telecommunications sector liberalization and financial sector strengthening. The Project also supported the
development of legislation that improved the functioning of SIRESE and SIREFI and simplified business
administrative procedures. Some legislation, however, was prepared but never approved.                This is
particularly true for the General Transport Law and the Competition Law (this, however, is less critical,
given that the key competition measures were already included in the SIRESE law and the corresponding
sectoral laws). In addition, water legislation, adopted previously, was amended during the life of the
Project, undermining the principles on which the law was based. As a result, the regulations prepared under



                                                       - 7 -

the Project were never issued. See Section 4.2 for details.

The second objective, "implement a privatization and corporatization program," largely was not met.
Although the privatization efforts were very strong in the first three years of the Project, in the face of
increasing public opposition to privatization and private ownership (particularly foreign), the Government
abandoned the privatization program (see section 4.2 below). The objective was consistently rated as
unsatisfactory in the supervision reports since mid-2003, when the privatization program was fully
abandoned. Details are included in the next section (output by components).

Similarly, the corporatization program was more difficult to implement than originally envisaged. The
Government lacked the legal resources and political power to impose an ownership reform on cooperatives,
which are basically private entities. However, some important gains in the quality of service provision
were achieved through the inclusion of cooperatives into the regulatory system and the imposition of stricter
regulatory standards, and in some cases (telecommunications) through exposing them to greater competitive
pressures.

The third objective, "build institutional capacity to implement the reform program and support project
management," was partially achieved but its sustainability is unlikely. While the Project succeeded in
developing high capacity in the regulatory institutions, the gains are being eroded by the continued
weakening of the institutional status of the regulatory entities (such as financial and decision-making
autonomy), particularly in the SIRESE system. The severe violations of SIRESE's autonomy in the
Project's last year and the corresponding impact on the quality of its work were the main reasons for the
downgrading of the overall outcome of the Project to moderately unsatisfactory during the last year of
supervision.

The Project's rating, however, needs to be considered in the context of the political and economic
developments surrounding its implementation. Political turmoil resulted in the resignation of four presidents
between 1998 and 2004. Moreover, Bolivia has been in an economic crisis since 2001. External shocks
included the Argentine crisis, the Brazil devaluation, adverse terms of trade shocks, the fiscal crisis and the
general slowdown of the world economy. Internally, the negative economic effects of the otherwise
successful coca eradication campaign further contributed to the crisis.

Contrary to the CAS's and the Project's goal of encouraging private investment, economic and political
instability has resulted in the contraction of private investment activity in the country: gross fixed capital
formation by the private sector fell from 18 percent of GDP in 1998 to less than six percent in 2003.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) fell from some 11 percent of GDP in 1998 to less than two percent in
2003. Overall private investment for the same period declined from 18 percent to less than 10 percent of
GDP. External financing to Bolivia in terms of GDP also fell by 65 percent during 1999-2002.

As in other countries of the region, many blamed the economic hardship on the reforms, which, in their
view, failed to produce the desired outcome of economic growth and improved social services. Among the
major culprits were privatization, foreign ownership and regulation. Anti-privatization attitudes are best
reflected in the popular demands to re-nationalize the hydrocarbons industry and the two "water wars"
(public unrest), which resulted in the revoking of one water concession (Cochabamba) and the firmly stated
intention to revoke the other (La Paz/El Alto). Political and economic instability continues with the recent
resignation of President Mesa. Calls for re-nationalization in the hydrocarbons industry and, possibly, other
sectors are intensifying; some groups are questioning the principles of the market economy and private
ownership. The country is divided along ethnic, social and geographical boundaries; its integrity is shaken
by the Santa Cruz separatist movement. With the expectations about the upcoming elections unclear,
Bolivia's future is difficult to predict.



                                                     - 8 -

Table 1 Performance and output indicators                                       Result
Increased private investment as percentage of GDP, including in infrastructure Not achieved
A. Financial sector:
Existence of regulatory agencies with capable staff and adequate resources      Mostly achieved
Preparation of draft laws and regulations acceptable to the IDA                 Achieved
  A1. Banking sector (incl. cooperatives and microfinance institutions):
Improved enforcement of prudential oversight                                    Achieved
Orderly consolidation of banks, including resolution of nonviable entities      Achieved
Improved transparency and external and internal governance                      Achieved
Establishment of a Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF) with capable staff and          Not achieved
adequate resources
Functioning of a coordination committee (CONFIP: Comité de Normas               Achieved
Financieras de Prudencia), as evidenced by meetings and issuance of norms
  A2. Non-Banking sector (pensions, capital markets and insurance):
Improved supervisory capacity and coordination                                  Achieved
Increased depth of capital markets and insurance coverage                       Partly achieved
B. Infrastructure and Business Regulation
Changes in market structure reflecting greater competition                      Mostly achieved
Existence of independent regulatory agencies for telecommunications, power,     Partly achieved;
hydrocarbons, transport and water with capable staff and adequate resources     independence not
                                                                                achieved
Preparation of draft laws and regulations acceptable to the IDA                 Mostly achieved
C. Privatization (and corporatization)
Numbers of privatization and concessions                                        Mostly not achieved
Published offers for sale for selected state-owned enterprises                  Partly achieved
(Substantial) revenues generated from privatization                             Not achieved
Increased private investment in local public service providers                  Not achieved
Draft concession contracts and licenses for public service cooperatives         Mostly achieved
incorporating performance targets


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Financial Sector (US$5.76m planned originally, US$5.53m actual).

The Project contributed to substantial improvements in the stability of the banking sector and improved
institutional capacity of the Government and the regulators in the banking and the non-banking, sectors.

Sub-component 1. Banking Sector (US$4.38m originally planned financing, US$1.95m actual).

The Project has been successful in assisting in the improvement of the prudential legal and regulatory
framework for the banking sector and the enhancement of the supervisory functions of the Superintendency
of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF). The passage of the Property and Cooperative Credit Law (PCP)
Law in 1998 and the Financial Sector Strengthening (FSF) Law in 2001 has greatly enhanced the
regulatory tools in the financial sector, including the ability of the regulators to swiftly restructure and



                                                     - 9 -

liquidate insolvent institutions in a transparent manner. The Administrative Procedures (AP) Law passed in
2002 created enhanced public participation in the rule-making process and firmed up the principles of the
regulatory system. The Project assisted in preparing the FSF and the AP laws and the norms and
regulations related to all three laws. The key areas covered included implementation of the new asset
classification (capital adequacy) norms based on the Basel principles, risk evaluation and mitigation norms
and procedures, improved methodology for banking supervision, improvement in the transparency of the
financial information, training and the acquisition and installation of necessary equipment.

In part, as a result of this assistance, the financial sector was able to successfully withstand the 2001-2003
economic crisis and the repeated episodes of bank runs. No banking failures occurred during the crisis.
The new principles of asset valuation, applied gradually, played a major role in achieving this success.
While the financial performance of the banking sector in 1999-2004 may create an impression of
deterioration (decline in total assets, lower profitability and increases in problem loans - that is a natural
consequence of the recent economic crisis), the system is significantly healthier and better prepared to
survive a crisis than before. The provisioning of problem loans rose from 36 percent in 1998 to 55 percent
in 2003. Banking supervision and resolution are much sharper, and the early warning systems seem to be
working well. The health of the system also improved with the recapitalization of two banks and the
resolution of five financial cooperatives in 2003-2004.

The Project has also been successful in restructuring the supervisory and regulatory institutional
frameworks for the banking sector. The original targets of the Project included assistance in creating the
legislation to protect the regulators from the private right of action and promoting the coordination between
the Government's financial institutions and SIREFI. A coordinating institution (CONFIP) was established
in 1998 and initially served to improve the coordination between the key financial sector public offices.
Yet, its significance declined fairly rapidly and it was abolished in 2002 under the Bono Solidario
(BONOSOL) Law. A new similar coordinating agency, however, later emerged - the Consejo Nacional de
Politicas Financieras (CONAPFI), and has become even more effective as an interface between SIREFI
and the Office of the President.

In 2002, SIREFI was expanded to include the newly created Superintendency of Companies
(SuperEmpresas). The Project assisted in its creation and initial capacity building. Being cross-sectoral in
nature and charged with supervising the processes in corporate finance, corporate governance, creation and
restructuring of companies and corporate information in general, the SuperEmpresas has been and
continues to be an important element in improving the quality of the existing and potential corporate
borrowers. Its role was elevated in 2003 by the Enterprise Voluntary Restructuring Law (Ley de
Reestructuración Voluntaria de Empresas) that, among other things, amended the Commerce Code to
allow voluntary restructuring of nonfinancial companies with the participation of the SuperEmpresas.

The deposit guarantee scheme was implemented in a revised form. While the original intention of the
RRSAC and the Project had been to establish an explicit limited deposit insurance scheme, the idea has not
found support in the Government, which feared a repetition of bank runs that followed the attempt to
introduce explicitly limited deposit loss coverage during the BIDESA failure in 1997. However, an implicit
deposit insurance fund was created in 2001. Technically, it is an account at the Central Bank into which the
banks make predetermined contributions. The fund can only be used in the process of a bank resolution
(and not liquidation) to cover up to 50 percent of the qualified liabilities. Temporary financing and legal
arrangements for the deposit insurance fund were recently extended. The fund's institutional structure is
expected to be clarified by legislation currently in preparation. The new legislation targets fully-fledged
deposit insurance and improves mechanisms for bank liquidation and restructuring.




                                                       - 10 -

Given that some original activities did not materialize (mainly the Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF)) and the
original intention to redefine the Central Bank's lender of last resort facilities), sizeable resources were
reallocated from the Banking Sector sub-component to the Non-banking Sector sub-component, which
required increased funding due to the structural changes the regulatory system in the non-banking sector
experienced (see below).

Sub-component 2: Non-banking Sector (US$1.38m originally planned, US$3.58m actual).

The task of this sub-component was to draft sector-specific norms and provide general capacity building in
the various institutions. The main beneficiary of the Project was the Superintendency of Pensions, Capital
Markets and Insurance (SPVS), followed by the Viceministry of Financial Affairs (VMAF). Limited
assistance was given also to the Superintendency of Administrative Review (SRJ), and after the second
amendment to the Viceministry of Tax Policy (VMTP) and the Superintendency of Taxes (ST).

The Project's assistance to the SPVS and the VMAF has resulted in improved technical, institutional and
operational capacity within a well-developed legal and regulatory framework. Created in 1998, the
SPVS brought the three superintendencies of Pensions, Capital Markets and Insurance under one roof.
This helped to enhance the coordination among the three sub-sectors. In the same year, the VMAF was
created to design policies and norms for the financial sector. The Project's assistance ranged from
installation of information systems to development and promulgation of the law on Pensions, Capital
Markets and Insurance. The Project assisted with the establishment of the organizational structure of the
SPVS, the development of the operational manuals and procedures and the installation of the necessary
computer networks and information systems, including, most notably, the computerized pensioner tracking
system. The Project also assisted with the implementation of a website and the public information
campaign that included person-to-person communication.

The newly-developed norms and regulations for the pension system mainly defined the principles for the
calculation of pensions and other benefits. It established the accounting principles for the pension funds and
expanded the range of financial instruments to be used by the pension funds (including the introduction of
accounting principles for coupons and foreign assets).         For the Insurance industry, the norms and
regulations covered the system of solvency indicators for insurance companies and agents, the operation of
insurance companies in general, the registry of insurance policies, the registry of intermediaries, the registry
of consultants and mandatory insurance coverage. In the capital markets area, the norms and regulations
included several Supreme Decrees covering the various aspects of the Capital Markets Law, as well as
defining the framework for the participation of the limited liability companies, savings and loans
associations, and cooperatives. The Project also supported the development and implementation of the
norms and regulations pertaining to, among others, the public placement of non-registered shares, registry
of shares, risk valuation, investment funds, accounting principles for stock exchanges and underwriting.

The improved regulations for the pension funds have led to greater diversification of portfolios. However,
over-investment in government bonds (issued to cover the obligations under the old system) still remains a
central problem. The value of the pension funds rose from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1998 to 6.3 percent in
2003. The portfolios remain mainly domestic, with only 1.7 percent (as of 2003) of the total value
pertaining to investments abroad. The new computerized systems allowed substantial increases in the
efficiency and the transparency of the regulation and to improve the ability to quickly mitigate the various
risks. For example, multiple affiliation with pension funds has been reduced by some 90 percent.

Insurance coverage grew substantially during Project implementation, increasing by 41 percent between
1998 and 2002 (premia collected, in U.S. dollars). This growth was driven by personal insurance - where
the premia collected increased from some US$14 million in 1998 to US$68 million in 2002 and US$75


                                                     - 11 -

million in 2003. The application of the new norms and regulations allowed for quick liquidation of two
troubled insurance companies, of which one liquidation was voluntary and the other forced.

The performance of the stock exchange has been less impressive. While highly volatile, trade volume
averaged practically the same between 1998 and 2003 - some US$1.6 billion annually, largely comprised
of fixed-income securities, mostly Government bonds. Only one of the capitalized companies had its shares
listed - while the original plan had been to have most capitalized firms go public. This stagnation was,
however, mostly due to the recent economic crisis and the political instability. The legal and regulatory
environment improved substantially. Stock markets in most Latin American countries performed no better
in the same period.

The Project's assistance to the VMAF complemented the support provided to the SPVS. In addition to the
development of norms, and related analytical work, the Project has also financed activities aimed at
streamlining VMAF's internal procedures, training and the acquisition of the necessary equipment. SRJ,
created as an appeals body disappeared in 2002, and due to its unstable situation, the Project support it
received was negligible. The tax authorities were included in the second amendment in 2004 in view of the
urgent assistance needed in the budget crisis, but the assistance was very limited and provided only in the
last year of the Project.

Component 2. Infrastructure and Business Regulations (US$6.11m originally planned, US$8.17m
actual)

The outcomes of the second component are mixed. There are some important achievements (such as
liberalization of the telecommunications sector, strengthening of the financial sector, some positive
developments for competitiveness and transparency), but the overall results are rated moderately
unsatisfactory, mainly due to the overall weakening of SIRESE in the increasingly hostile political
environment (particularly during the last year of the Project), which put in doubt the sustainability of some
of the current achievements.

Sub-component 1. Cross-sectoral and Competition Regulatory Reform (US$0.50m originally planned,
US$1.93m actual)

During the life of the Project, this originally small sub-component was substantially refocused and
expanded, as the Government gradually shifted its focus from privatization to more politically feasible
areas of the business environment and transparency. The original areas supported under this component
included drafting of the competition law and a competition and consumer protection framework. The
Project further supported drafting of an Administrative Procedure Law, drafting of an amendment to the
SIRESE Law and regulations to improve the functioning of the SIRESE system. Later, the focus expanded
to the general competitiveness issues, such as productivity, support to SMEs, simplification of
administrative procedures and transparency in governmental practices and procedures. Nevertheless, even
after the restructuring, the support to SIRESE remained the key area of this sub-component.

The adjustment of the SIRESE operational procedures and the sectoral norms has been moderately
successful. The work on operational procedures and sectoral norms has concentrated on the General
Superintendency, which has developed regulations that included procedures and regulations that followed
the AP Law and brought the SIRESE and the AP laws in conformance. The positive effect of these efforts
was evidenced by the relatively good internal functioning of SIRESE. Although in general successful, the
development of sectoral norms was impeded by the weakness of the Government-SIRESE consultative
body (CONAPE) established in 1998 (RRSAC conditionality). The CONAPE practically ceased to exist
after its first meeting. In the absence of the consultative mechanism, the gap between the Government and



                                                    - 12 -

SIRESE widened, with negative consequences for SIRESE.

The Project was very successful in building capacity of the regulatory entities, but SIRESE's future is at
risk now.     For many years, Bolivia's regulatory system was widely acknowledged as a remarkable
achievement and good practice, particularly for a low income country with capacity constraints. However,
the capacity gains are now being eroded by the weakening of SIRESE. There were tendencies to curb
SIRESE's autonomy throughout the life of the Project. In 1997, when the new Government took office, it
initially questioned the SIRESE system and the principle of its autonomy, but eventually the new
Government accepted SIRESE. The problems started to appear once the fiscal situation deteriorated and
the imbalance in budgets between the line ministries and superintendencies became more evident. Even
though SIRESE has autonomous funding from specific sector levies collected from the regulated
companies, in 2001, the Government imposed salary caps on SIRESE (and SIREFI). While this interfered
with SIRESE's autonomy, the measure was also understandable from the Government's fiscal point of view
(the widening gap between the salaries in the line ministries and the regulatory entities was difficult to
justify). The system's performance, however, was not dramatically affected as the salaries were still in an
acceptable range. There have been other occasional clashes, but overall the coordination between the line
ministries and SIRESE worked well. The Project was often an important tool in the resolution of issues
between the line ministries and SIRESE.

The problems became far more serious in the last year of the Project. A new Fiscal Austerity Law imposed
budget controls on superintendencies (a clear violation of their financial autonomy), the salary caps were
lowered to a level which made it difficult for SIRESE to keep the highly trained professionals, and the
Congress failed to appoint new Superintendents, once the original terms expired.            As a result, all
superintendents of SIRESE are now interim and more susceptible to the Government's pressures on tariff
and other sensitive issues. In addition, there has been a high rotation of the interim superintendents. There
are calls for the abolishment of the system from some political parties, and tendencies to curb its
autonomous status even further, which puts the future of the system at risk. The situation was exacerbated
with the Government's de-facto suspension of the concession contract for water and sanitation provision in
La Paz/El Alto. These developments (all occurring during 2004) contradicted directly the objectives of the
Project, and were the main reason why the Project outcome was downgraded to unsatisfactory in the last
ISR.

The Competition Law was drafted but never enacted (the impact, however, was not significant). The draft
has been submitted to the Congress. However, the Law has never been approved. Therefore, efforts aimed
at developing related regulations and work on a mechanism for consumer protection have been minimal.
This, however, has not affected so much the infrastructure sectors, as key competition provisions were
already included in the sectoral laws. In the absence of the law, each superintendency carried out its own
competition regulation within their sectoral legal frameworks. In some areas, such as telecommunication,
these frameworks were amended to give the superintendency greater powers.

Other activities were implemented satisfactorily. The work on administrative procedures resulted in the
preparation and the passing of the Administrative Procedures (AP) Law. Approved in 2002, the Law has
been a major step in introducing accountability in public administration and in granting basic rights to
citizens. It has also been an important ingredient in resolving the corruption problems in Bolivia. After the
promulgation of AP Law, the Project supported other activities related to the improvement of the
transparency of the Government. Various studies have repeatedly shown that corruption is one of the key
constraints to doing business in Bolivia.          The Project provided resources to the Presidential
Anti-Corruption Commission that used the assistance to develop approaches to improve transparency and
fight corruption at the various levels of the government. For example, studies have been done on. (i) the


                                                    - 13 -

mechanisms for social control; (ii) how to reduce corruption in the regional governments and in the
judiciary and (iii) how to improve transparency in the area of general provision of information, and so
forth. The Project also financed the relevant training and development of an information system. As a
result, the Presidential Anti-Corruption Commission was significantly strengthened and better equiped to
fulfill ambitious tasks. Some of the activities financed by the Project, for example, contributed to the
uncovering of a large-scale corruption scheme in the health sector.

The work on competitiveness also yielded positive results. In 2001, the Bolivian System for Productivity
and Competitiveness (SBPC) was created as a public-private partnership for work in five key areas:
Technology, Production Processes, Market Access, Infrastructure, and Natural Resource Management.
The Project was re-focused to support the development of a general competition framework, with
assistance concentrating on supporting the related efforts of the Ministry of Economic Development's
Competitiveness and Productivity Unit (UPC) in particular. The Project also supported the SuperEmpresas
and the Vice-Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Exports. This assistance included the development of a
competitiveness matrix (UPC), the analysis of producer chains (UPC), the development of the programs "
Bolivia Competitiva" and "Red Boliviana de Competitividad" (UPC), studies on rationalization of
administrative procedures (UPC and SuperEmpresas), and the preparation of the Secured Transactions, the
Corporate Governance and the Leasing Laws (SuperEmpresas).                The achievements included the
promulgation of the 2004 Supreme Decree on Rationalization of Administrative Procedures that identified
key bottlenecks and prescribed remedies. As the topic of productivity and competitiveness is very general,
there remain significant overlaps in the activities performed by different offices of the Government. The
effectiveness of these efforts could be greatly advanced by better coordination among the agencies involved,
particularly SuperEmpresas and UPC.

Sub-component 2. Sector-specific Infrastructure Regulatory Reform (US$5.61m originally planned,
US$6.24m actual).

Sub-component 2 originally financed regulatory reform in the hydrocarbons, transportation and
telecommunications sectors. Later, the electricity and water and sanitation sectors were added. This
sub-component provided support to both the regulatory agencies (SIRESE) and the corresponding line
ministries. The support to SIRESE was particularly strong in the early years, when capacity building needs
were strongest. In later years, as the capacity and financial strength of superintendencies grew, the
imbalance in capacity between the superintendencies and the line ministries became a major issue,
particularly in the more commercial sectors - hydrocarbons, telecommunications and electricity (where the
sector levies were high enough to allow for generous budgets for the superintendencies). The Project
reoriented its support to the "poorer" superintendencies ­ transport and water & sanitation, and the line
ministries. The effectiveness of the assistance to the line ministries, however, was constrained by frequent
Government restructuring and personnel changes.

The Project's achievements in the Telecommunications sector can be characterized as outstanding. The
principal beneficiaries were the Superintendency of Telecommunications (SITTEL) and the Vice-Ministry
of Telecommunications (VMTEL). The Project assisted VMTEL and SITTEL in the preparation of the
complementary regulations following the promulgation of the 1995 Telecommunications Law. The Project's
key achievement, however, was its 2001 assistance in the sector's liberalization. The Project assisted the
Government in the preparation of a liberalization strategy aimed at improving access, service quality and a
range of services by promoting fair competition and the entry of new operators, while strengthening
regulation. The Project also helped to develop corresponding legal documents, regulations and training to
prepare it for the new challenge of regulating competitive markets.




                                                    - 14 -

In addition, the Project supported the process leading to the award of the third cellular license in Bolivia in
2000, further enhancing competition in the mobile phone segment. This was done through a competitive
tender resulting in the operator's payment of US$15.4 million (to be used for rural telecommunications
expansion). At the later stage, as urban telecom issues were largely resolved, the Project's focus shifted to
rural issues. The Project financed a large-scale rural telephone market study and the development of a
market expansion strategy. Work on other topics supported by the Project and implemented by the SITTEL
ranged from tariff structure development and interconnection fees to content regulation. Necessary
equipment and training were also provided.

The results of liberalization have been impressive. With the support of the Project, the achievements in the
sector have been substantial: in 1998-2004 telephone penetration in the country (both fixed and mobile)
increased from 9 percent to 27 percent. Competition has been enhanced greatly. Empresa de
Telecomunicaciones, ENTEL (former monopoly long distance provider), reduced its market share from
100 percent in 2000 to 52.6 percent in 2004. There are now seven new long distance operators in Bolivia.
Long-distance charges fell by more than half. Telephone traffic to and from the United States grew by 53
percent from 2000 to 2003, and the price per minute of a phone call from Bolivia to the United States
dropped by 59 percent, to US$0.24 per minute (per FCC).

Although some of these improvements are also due to technological progress, there is no doubt that
improved competition was a driving force (the long distance tariffs, for example, dropped significantly
practically overnight after the sector opening). The award of the third cellular license created a highly
competitive mobile phone market. Mobile phone services have enjoyed spectacular growth, and by 2004 the
number of wireless customers exceeded the number of wire-line connections by a factor of three.
Penetration in mobile subscribers, at 20 percent (more than fixed telephones, at seven percent), represents
an increase of 211 percent from 2000. With continued price declines and the introduction of convenient
calling cards, cell phones have become the phones of the poor in Bolivia.

Local fixed-line service providers have been reformed the least - in part as they were semi-private
cooperatives. However, even they improved their performance, facing stricter regulation and competitive
pressures after liberalization, including from the mobile phone operators.             Connection fees fell
substantially, as local cooperatives are required now to offer alternative connection fees for non-members
(membership would often cost US$1,500 or more). SITTEL was transformed into a highly competent
regulator, judged by international standards, but the recent general problems of SIRESE affect SITTEL as
well.

In the Electricity sector, assistance went mainly to the Vice-Ministry of Energy (VME/VMEH - included
Hydrocarbons prior to 2002, VME hereinafter). Carrying out the energy policy included tasks performed
earlier by the National Electricity Company (ENDE), which privatized in 1995-1997. At the time of
Project inception, the VME was experiencing severe resource shortages of funds and of staff, and was
significantly less developed than the Superintendency of Electricity. The Project has financed consultants
and studies that covered, among others, the development of a normative base for the electricity sector,
demand analysis, investigation of the financial viability of the master plan for the distribution network,
rural expansion strategy, and an analysis of options to export electricity. The Project also financed the
necessary equipment and training and has made a notable contribution to the capacity building process at
the VME.

The Project promoted greater competition and service quality in the electricity sector.            Three new
companies entered the power generation market after liberalization and installed capacity increased by
almost 500 MW during project implementation. Access grew impressively from 46 percent in 1997 to
about 70 percent by the end of the Project, with urban coverage close to universal (over 90 percent). In


                                                    - 15 -

recent years, however, as in other LAC countries, private investment in generation decreased dramatically.
Some foreign investors left the Bolivian market, a situation which might pose difficulties for the future
growth of the sector. Another issue is extremely low (below 30 percent) access in rural areas. This requires
considerable investment, which is difficult to obtain in the absence of a dedicated rural infrastructure fund.


In the Hydrocarbons sector, the principal beneficiary was the VMEH and, since 2002, its successor, the
Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons (MMH). The Project assisted in the assessment of the general
regulatory framework as well as the preparation of selected regulations, most notably including security
and other norms for the gas sub-sector, including tariff structures. The Project has also financed general
consultancies at the VMEH. In addition to the VMEH, the Project has assisted the tax authorities in the
assessment of the tax regime for the sector. Overall, the Project's support to the sector has been limited in
view of the substantially more limited privatization efforts than originally envisioned.

Hydrocarbons has been a politically sensitive issue for several years, in part because of the Sanchez de
Lozada government's proposal to export natural gas to Pacific Rim markets through Chile. The proposal
sparked popular opposition because of a long-standing territorial dispute between Chile and Bolivia
stemming from a war in the late 19th century in which Bolivia lost access to the Pacific. Popular opposition
eventually led to the resignation of President Sanchez de Lozada in 2003. As a result of the opposition to
this export project, a referendum was held (and won) to determine, under what conditions (if any) Bolivia
should export gas and whether a new hydrocarbons law that would increase tax rates on hydrocarbons
companies should be presented to Congress. A new Hydrocarbons Law (No. 3058) was subsequently
passed in May 2005. It made doing business more difficult in the hydrocarbons sector by introducing an
additional quasi-royalty (a tax imposed on revenues) on oil and gas production, requiring companies to
transition to new contracts and re-establishing a role for YPFB, a public company, along the entire
production and commercialization value chain. Although the law reconfirmed an important role for the
Superintendency of Hydrocarbons (contrary to fears by some that this entity might disappear completely),
in other areas, the law effectively undid most of the work supported by the Project. In the run-up to
national elections in December 2005, some political groups have called for full re-nationalization of natural
gas.

In the Transportation sector, the new General Transportation Law (prepared with the help of the Project)
was never enacted. This was a major setback, and the transport sector now remains the only infrastructure
sector in Bolivia without modern legislation. This has negative implications for the functioning of the
regulatory system, as the Superintendency of Transport (STR) lacks some key regulatory rules (backed by
law) and regulators' decisions can be relatively easily challenged in court, which was, for example, the case
with one of the airlines. The Project, nevertheless, helped to strengthen STR and improve its regulatory
tools within the current legislation. Together with SITTEL, STR was one of the major beneficiaries of the
Project. The Project assisted in the analysis of transportation costs (including for the airport concessions to
SABSA granted in 1997), the development of tariff schedules for the various kinds of transportation, the
conduct of several diagnostics studies, and the development of a system of quality indicators, and purchases
and installation of the necessary equipment. The quality indicators included the technical standards for
vehicles, the security measures and the schedule observance norms in the railroad and the aviation
industries. The Project also assisted in the development of the normative base for the operation of taxis,
radio-taxis, micro-buses, and the like. Finally, the Project has supported relevant training.

The Project's assistance has resulted in improved STR supervisory activity. Armed with better
understanding about the transportation costs as well as the newly developed normative base, including
security regulations, in 1998-2002, the STR issued 13 warrants for suspension of operations to railroad
operators for various violations of the norms or on economic inefficiency grounds. In the air transportation


                                                     - 16 -

segment, the STR has been proactive in fighting anti-competitive practices through the enforcement of
tariff regulations - yet the efforts have been impeded by the inadequacy of the existing legislation. The STR
has also put pressure on the transportation industry for better transparency: for example, Lloyd Aéreo
Boliviano (LAB) airline has been charged with concealing important financial information. Unfortunately,
recent developments have led to a weakening of the STR through both economic and political channels.
The de-facto loss of independence has made the STR susceptible to pressures from the Government
(especially in the tariff area), and high rotation of personnel. The regulatory fee-based financing does not
provide enough resources for the STR, raising sustainability problems.

In the Water and Sanitation sector, the principal beneficiary has been the Superintendency of Basic
Sanitation (SISAB), with some help provided also to the Vice-Ministry of Housing and Basic Services.
The Project supported the design of the sector's regulatory framework, drafting regulations, identifying the
tariff structure, performing self-evaluation, setting up quality control mechanisms, conducting a consumer
education campaign, and training. The most notable progress in regulation has been in the area of quality
control. In particular, the quality and quantity of information collected from distribution points increased
substantially, which has allowed for more effective regulation and positively affected the performance of
the cooperatives in charge of water provision. An important element of the support has been the assistance
to the SISAB in obtaining ISO-9000 certifications. The Project also played a role in the institutional
strengthening and the capacity building of the SISAB through financing the purchases and the installation
of relevant equipment, including computer networks, as well as supporting general consultancy services.
The latter has helped significantly in resolving the shortage of staff at the SISAB at an early stage.

Developments in the sector have been far from the ideal, however. The two recent "water wars" have
substantially undermined the quest to introduce private sector participation and greater efficiency in the
water sector. The "wars" (Cochabamba in 2000 and La Paz/El Alto in 2004) resulted in cessation or
de-facto suspension of the concessions granted to private parties and added significantly to the
anti-privatization sentiment. In Bolivia, it is the regulator (SISAB) that is authorized to award or withdraw
concessions, not the Government. The Government, however, applied very strong pressure on the SISAB
to terminate the Cochabamba concession and to threaten the one in La Paz/El Alto. While the La Paz/El
Alto concession is technically in force, the operator is unable to continue normal operations. The Water
Law was revised in 2000 by the Congress in a way that made privatization in the sector more difficult as
well as adversely altered the tariff-setting mechanism. This has made many of the regulations developed
with the help of the Project difficult or impossible to implement. These shortcomings notwithstanding, the
strengthening of the regulator contributed to the improvement in access and service quality. All urban
water providers (mostly cooperatives and municipal companies) are now required to sign concession
contracts with SISAB, which regulates tariffs and service quality. Accordingly, 28 contracts have been
signed. Although service quality improved somewhat due to better regulation, the cooperatives are still not
restructured and continue to be financially vulnerable.

The main impediments to a successful implementation of the Project and to the sustainability of its efforts
are the high volatility and political vulnerability of the SISAB. There were four interim Superintendents
within a span of six months after December 2004, and the last one is still interim. In addition, as in the
transport sector, the regulatory fee in the water and sanitation sector is not sufficient to fund SISAB's
sustainable operation, which makes it dependent on continued donor assistance.

Component 3. Privatization (and corporatization) (US$15.0m originally planned, of which
non-government cofinancing was planned at around US$9m; US$1.9m actual)

The Project's achievements under this component were very minor. Very few enterprises from the list of 55
companies originally slated for privatization have been privatized and the cooperatives reform has not been


                                                      - 17 -

launched.

Sub-component 1. Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) (US$11.6m originally planned, with
non-government cofinancing envisioned at some US$9m; US$1.6m actual)

The most important privatization efforts were related to the sale of the residual assets of the YPFB. With
the exception of the gas distribution network, most of the YPFB residual assets have been privatized or (in
the case of gas stations) their management has been transferred to the private sector. The Project assisted
with the preparation of the assets for sale. The privatization efforts, however, have been recently
undermined by the new Hydrocarbons Law of May 2005. It reinstates and "rebuilds" YPFB as a
state-controlled company, involved in all the aspects of the production.

Additional privatization efforts financed by the Project related to the successful sales of the Empresa
Metalurgica Vinto and the Empresa de Productos Alimenticios Milka. Both were on the original list of
enterprises to be privatized.       The Project supported two additional privatization processes, MUTUN
(mining) and SETAR (electricity distribution), but the transactions were not concluded, partly because of
difficulties to incite attractive bids in a deteriorating economic environment. In general, the easier and more
attractive enterprises were already privatized in the first privatization wave. In addition, some of the
entities, including SETAR, had a difficult ownership structure, being partly owned by municipalities or
local cooperatives. In the end, the privatization efforts were abandoned as the political environment
deteriorated and the anti-privatization sentiments of the population intensified. The Project also financed
capacity building activities for the Viceministry of Investment and Privatization, in charge of this
component. In a later Government reorganization, however, this Viceministry was abolished.

In a rapidly deteriorating political environment, with rising calls for nationalization, the component's focus
was reoriented to preserving the past achievements, rather than advancing new privatization transactions.
In a highly political debate, there was a need for an objective evaluation of the past capitalization and
privatization transactions. The President named a Special Delegate for this purpose and the Project
supported his office (PCAC). The objective was to give an unbiased review of gains and failures of
capitalization in order to de-politicize the issue, preserve the benefits and correct errors. The delegate built
a team of highly qualified professionals capable of carrying out sectoral, financial, corporate and other
types of analyses necessary for policy formulation. The review concluded with an acknowledgement of
significant improvements achieved through capitalization, including improved coverage, increased
investment, existence of competent regulatory agencies and an improved country image among international
investors.

However, the review also identified various weaknesses, including: (i) an incomplete legal and regulatory
framework, which in some cases created distortions and inadequate incentives for the capitalized
companies; (ii) corporate governance issues; (iii) insufficient communication and unrealistic expectations
by the public; (iv) limited social impact (insufficient pro-poor focus); and (v) deficient control and follow
up by the Government. There were two workshops on the issue with participants from the Government, the
private sector (including the capitalized companies), all political parties and civil society. The workshops
were open to the general public and were very successful. With the change of Administration, the Special
Delegate's office was dissolved. However, it successfully fulfilled its main role, and helped to suggest a
way to improve the capitalization model without destroying its undoubtable achievements. The Presidential
Delegate pointed out that this work would not be possible without the Bank's support.

Sub-component 2. Public Services Cooperatives Reform (US$3.4m originally planned,                    US$0.05m
actual)

Work on the corporate restructuring of the cooperatives has not materialized. The sub-component
envisioned assistance in the evaluation of the public services cooperatives as to their financial and


                                                        - 18 -

operational viability, their likelihood of meeting the regulation-set performance criteria, the valuation of
their stock if issued, as well as in the identification and the implementation of adequate strategies for
corporate restructuring of the cooperatives in order to attract private investment. With some 450
cooperatives providing electricity distribution, local telecommunications and water and sanitation services,
the majority of which had poor performance records, the sub-component was meant to be an important
element in the improvement of the living standards of the population. Yet, the changes in the political
situation have prevented work on corporate restructuring of the cooperatives. Lack of leadership and
coordination between the ministries involved was also a big obstacle to transforming the cooperatives. The
Government lacked both legal and political tools to impose the reform on cooperatives which resisted this
change (as cooperatives are basically private entities over which the Government has only a limited
control).

Correspondingly, the corporatization did not occur and the Project's assistance under this sub-component
has been rather small. Nevertheless, the cooperatives' performance was somewhat improved through the
work under Component 2 - Infrastructure and Business Regulation. In all sectors, the Project helped the
Ministries and regulators to issue norms which would bring cooperatives under stricter regulatory
oversight, including tariff-setting issues and service quality. In the telecommunications sector, this has led
to the decreases of initial subscription quotas and in general improved customer service. Greater
competition, achieved through market deregulation, also forced the cooperatives to become more
market-oriented. In the water sector, all service providers are now required to sign a concession with the
regulator (28 contracts have been signed), which includes tariff and service quality measures and
corresponding fines for noncompliance. In the electricity sector, a new regulatory instrument (contrato de
adequación) was developed to allow the regulator to oversee the smaller cooperatives. Nevertheless, the
cooperatives are still in a very precarious situation, many of them experiencing serious financial
difficulties.

Sub-component 3. Competitiveness (not originally envisioned, but added in the second Amendment in
2004; US$0.2m actual)

This sub-component was added at the time of the second amendment to provide assistance to improve
competitiveness and productivity in the country and support small and medium enterprises. A specific
component on competitiveness was added at a request of the Government to highlight this new important
area of Government's focus. These activities, however, were already financed under Component 2 within a
broader area of business regulation. Therefore, given that the outcomes of the competitiveness activities
are already described under Component 2, they will not be repeated here.

Component 4. Program Implementation Support (US$3.5m originally planned, US$2.8m actual)

The component aimed at creating high-quality project management capacity. It also included general
management of the Public Information Campaign to support the Project's objectives, mainly privatization.
While substantial management capacity has been developed, the Public Information Campaign efforts have
not led to the desired outcomes: the anti-privatization sentiment continued to progress.

Sub-component 1. Project Management Unit (US$1.8m originally planned, US$2.1m actual)

The sub-component has been successful at building a team of qualified professionals. Reflecting the Bank's
vision of project management at the time, the sub-component was designed to develop institutional capacity
at the Ministry of Finance to manage the Bank's and other similar projects.      The PMU was made up of
highly qualified professionals capable of carrying out the management of this complex project, involving


                                                     - 19 -

coordination among a large number of beneficiary agencies and including ensuring the compliance with the
procurement rules and other (often complex) formal procedures required by the Operations Manual and the
Bank rules. PMU staff developed particularly impressive capacities in the procurement and financial
management. The final audit confirmed the generally good performance by the PMU staff. The Bank
procurement specialist commented that this PMU was one of the best among all the projects in the country.
Now when the Project is closed, expectations are that the PMU staff will be employed by other Bank
projects. The PMU was rated satisfactorily throughout the life of the Project, with the exception of the
period of 2002-2003, following a car accident of the Project Director. After the accident, the Project was
managed by a number of directors (most of them interim); some of them without the adequate professional
capabilities for this position. The situation improved with the return of the original Project Director in
November 2003 after her recovery.

Sub-component 2. Public Information Campaign (US$1.7m originally planned, US$0.8m actual)

This sub-component included assistance in design, development and implementation of the Public
Information Campaign. It was designed to influence the public's perceptions about the privatization and the
regulatory system. The envisioned activities involved the design, development and implementation of a
communications strategy, the design, production and dissemination of information, support to surveys and
research, and financing of seminars, training and conferences.

This sub-component did not achieve the intended results. The negative public perception of privatization
and the regulatory systems has not been reversed: it has worsened, fueled, in particular, by the two "water
wars" and demands to re-nationalize natural gas exploration. The privatization process has stalled. SIRESE
continues to lack political support. The Public Information Campaign basically included delivery of
information to the public by means of person-to-person communication, radio and TV - with the idea of
"diffusion" of the ideas of privatization and regulation into the public. A conceptual problem with the
Public Information Campaign approach was that it aimed at explaining the benefits of privatization and
regulation to the population, while not involving the public in the decision-making process - for example, in
the development of regulations. Other approaches, such as working with the private sector companies on
their assumption of certain social responsibilities or other forms of public private partnerships to expand
the provision of the social services to the poor, would have been, perhaps, a better alternative or, at least, a
necessary complement. The suggested approaches, however, would have to go beyond an "information
campaign", as they would be broader in nature, and not necessarily within the scope of this Project. In other
words, in light of exploding public opposition to privatization, regulation, and private ownership of public
utilities, the Public Information Campaign, as envisaged by the Project, was probably no longer a sufficient
tool to influence public opinion.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A


4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact has been modest.         Most of the progress occurred in the financial
regulatory system because it did not suffer as much from the budget crisis and has a much better political
standing than SIRESE. The negative effects of personnel changes were also diminished by the relatively
high clarity of the strategies adopted and followed in the sector. The SBEF and the SPVS are now fully



                                                    - 20 -

prepared for independent work - yet, the SPVS may still need external resources to sustain the development
of new strategies for portfolio allocation of pension funds.

While the Project contributed significantly to capacity building in SIRESE, success has been undermined
by the Government's inability to deliver fully on its commitment to ensure the independence and strength of
the system. As salaries declined considerably, many highly trained specialists left SIRESE. Although
much of the expertise acquired with the help of the Project is still in the system, it will be important to find
ways to stop the weakening of infrastructure regulation and to put the accumulated knowledge and skills to
proper use.

The effects of the capacity-building efforts in the Government (ministries, vice-ministries) varied greatly
across the beneficiaries, but in general has been affected by high turnover of the staff at the ministries (at
all levels).   For example, the telecommunications sector moved from one vice-ministry to another,
responding to seven Vice-Ministers during the life of the Project. Some of the key beneficiaries ceased to
exist, such as the Vice-Ministry of Investment and Privatization.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Project was implemented in a time of a growing political, economic and social instability. Some of the
factors that contributed to the (moderately) unsatisfactory rating of the project outcome were clearly
outside the Government's control:

Economic factors.      After the growth period of the late 1990s, fueled by large investments from the
capitalization program, GDP grew only 2.4 percent per annum during 1998-2003, or practically zero rate
on a per capita basis. The economic difficulties were, in a large part, the result of external and domestic
shocks, combined with unsustainable levels of public spending and falling investments. On the external
front, turmoil in the international capital market led to scarce private external financing for emerging
markets.    The Brazilian devaluation and the Argentine crisis exacerbated the situation.          A series of
domestic factors were also out of the government's control: for example, the fiscal imbalances were rooted
in the improper design of the reforms that had taken place prior to Project implementation and were
difficult or impossible to reverse. In the domestic area, the major factor that contributed to the economic
crisis was the successful coca eradication program, which significantly affected the economic growth and
contributed to the general discontent of the population (particularly those in the affected areas).

Fiscal issues. Specifically, the higher-than-anticipated cost of the pension reform and the lower tax
revenues from the hydrocarbons sector following the privatization were the major factors behind the
widened budget deficit - and were difficult to mitigate. They were complemented by the weak economic
activity, the winding down of privatization of public enterprises, the increased wage bill (though technically
in control of the Government) and the acceleration of capital expenditures.              This trend has been
compounded by rising interest payments to service the growing public debt needed to cover the deficit. The
overall budget deficit soared to eight percent of GDP in 2003, up from 3.7 percent in 2000, causing the
Government to adopt the Fiscal Austerity Law, one of the adverse consequences of which was the
weakening in the financing and the financial independence of the regulatory system.

Anti-privatization sentiment and social upheaval. The social protests (always present in Bolivia's recent
history) grew more frequent, massive and violent in the recent years, resulting in the resignation of two



                                                     - 21 -

presidents in the past two years. The anti-privatization sentiments were at the heart of these conflicts, with
escalating demands, which have led, among other, to the cancellation of the Cochabamba and a de-facto
suspension of the La Paz/El Alto concessions. The overall free-market economic model is being actively
questioned by a number of political groups. These are the key questions for the upcoming early elections
that clearly restrain the decision-making capacity of the Government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Weakening of SIRESE. As discussed earlier, the Government has taken specific measures, which over time
have contributed to the significant weakening of SIRESE and the de-facto loss of its independence. These
include fiscal measures, subjecting SIRESE funds (collected from specific, targeted sector-based fees) to
budgetary restrictions, salary caps and frequent changes of the interim superintendents (in the absence of
Congressional appointments of the superintendents). The loss of independence could be particularly seen in
the SISAB's and STR's strong susceptibility to Government's pressures.

Failure to enact key legislation. Many of the objectives were not achieved due to lack of action by the
Congress, which failed to approve some of the key legislation prepared by the Project. It also failed to
reach a necessary consensus to appoint the superintendents. In this sense, it is more a responsibility of the
legislature than that of the Government. However, the Government is also partly responsible for the lack of
cooperation with the Congress.

The Project witnessed frequently changing priorities and government reorganizations which negative
affected the continuity of Project-supported activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Unduly strict controls over the procurement and occasional tensions with beneficiaries were the (relatively
minor) problems that the PMU could have avoided (see Section 7 for details). Overall, however, The PMU
performed relatively well - with the exception of a brief period in 2002-2003 when the PMU was managed
by a number of interim directors.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A substantial portion of the credit was cancelled despite two extensions. Mainly due to political and
economic instability and the retreat from privatization, the implementation of the Project has been
significantly delayed. Work in some of the originally envisioned directions, most notably privatization and
cooperatives restructuring, could not be carried out, and resources had to be either reallocated to other
components or tasks (including those introduced during implementation) or remain unused. Also, the work
related to the hydrocarbons sector was affected by the political sensitivity of the hydrocarbons issue, which
constrained the Bank's involvement in some of the activities. As a result, some US$3 million out of the
total of US$20 million, or 15 percent, was cancelled. In addition, the initially envisioned US$9 million
cofinancing of the Privatization component never materialized.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The overall sustainability rating is (moderately) Unlikely. This rating, however, varies significantly across
the components.

The sustainability of the Project's technical assistance efforts is likely in the case of financial sector



                                                     - 22 -

regulation. This system has built excellent capacity, which allowed the banks to withstand the recent crisis.
Neither SBEF, nor the SPVS, seem to suffer much from political problems - although the SPVS
Superintendent is still interim. Yet, the SPVS still needs additional resources to complete its tasks
(particularly in the pension sector). In the absence of other donor financing, SPVS might suffer from a
lack of funding necessary to complete its ambitious, but necessary, development program.

The results of capacity-building and institutional strengthening efforts are ambiguous in the case of
SIRESE. It has built excellent capacity, but it suffered major setbacks in the generally adverse political
environment and the budget crisis that undermined the Government's commitment to maintaining its
development and independence. All the six superintendents continue to be interim, and funding is severely
reduced. The low salary caps have provoked a departure of qualified Project-trained staff. A major change
in the political environment is needed for SIRESE to restore its independence and make good use of the
resources built with the help of this Project. The situation is particularly severe for SISAB and STR, where
the collected fees are the lowest among the six sectors and do not cover its budgetary needs, and the
Government's interference is the highest.

The outcomes of the privatization component were rather limited, and the more successful efforts
(privatization of YPFB assets) are facing setbacks, now that the new Hydrocarbons Law includes the
reinstatement and "rebuilding" of the YPFB as a state-run company involved in production and distribution
of hydrocarbons and exercising full control over exports and imports in the sector.

On the other hand, the results of the Project's support related to the general work on competitiveness,
productivity and transparency seem more sustainable. This work has resulted in the preparation of key
corporate legislation, the issuance of a Supreme Decree on Rationalization of Administrative Procedures,
the development of Competitiveness Strategy, the assistance for the preparation of the free-trade
negotiations, the anticorruption efforts and the like. As these are the areas where a political consensus is
likely, sustainability is likely as well.

The overall rating is given as (moderately) unlikely to accentuate the political uncertainty that the country
is facing and that may have especially detrimental impacts on SIRESE and further undermine the few
completed privatization efforts.

Although there is no single follow-up operation for this project, various key issues are covered in a number
of existing and future Bank projects. The support to the financial sector continues under a new Bank
project (Programmatic Bank and Corporate Restructuring Project), many sectoral issues continue in
various investment operations ­ Urban Infrastructure for the Poor (mainly water and sanitation),
Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation (electricity and telecommunications, which include
significant regulatory components). The competitiveness issues are expected to be included in the new
competitiveness project, which also contemplates a component for SIRESE.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during Project preparation is rated (moderately) Satisfactory. Project preparation
experienced no significant problems or delays. The Project fit well in the development strategy of the
country. Project preparation and appraisal were consistent with the Government's strategy and priorities at
the time and with the Bank's country assistance strategy. The Project was prepared in parallel with the


                                                     - 23 -

implementation of an adjustment credit. Both projects were a logical continuation of the Bank's successful
prior efforts in privatization and the strengthening of regulation. The design was based on a very thorough
analysis of the key issues. Both quantity and quality of the Bank staff participating in the preparation and
the appraisal of the Project were sufficient. The appraisal of the borrower's and the PMU's capabilities to
enforce the financial management and procurement rules was adequate in that due capacity existed at the
Ministry of Finance. The planned amount of the support was adequate to the envisioned tasks.

The overall good quality of the design was somewhat undermined by the following factors. First, the
project objectives encompassed a number of very difficult issues, which made the project quite complex.
The design suffered from too many components and sub - components, exacerbated by an overly detailed
allocation of funds to categories and beneficiaries - which became a bottleneck in implementation. Second,
while the Project's design acknowledged the limitations of the technical assistance operations in the
formulation of the Project objectives, some of the performance indicators were rather ambitious and based
on very optimistic assumptions. With the benefit of hindsight, the risk assessment was probably also quite
optimistic (it was, however, reflecting a very strong Government commitment and the country conditions at
that time).

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during Project supervision is rated (moderately) Satisfactory. The interaction among
the Bank, the PMU and the Government agencies was satisfactory, with regular, adequately-staffed,
supervision missions in the field. Seventeen Project Status Reports (PSRs) and one Implementation Status
Report (ISR) were prepared and filed in due manner. Other relevant Project documentation was regularly
filed and is readily available. The PSRs and ISRs were detailed; the ratings and the risk assessments were
adequate. The Bank has shown considerable flexibility in responding to the changing priorities of the
Government, as was feasible within the framework of the Project. An additional sign of flexibility and
efficiency was the transfer of contract reviews to the field office in 1999. While communication between
the Bank and the PMU was good, some deficiencies could be observed. For example, new procurement
rules were not communicated to the PMU in time.

While the Bank showed considerable flexibility in accommodating changing country conditions and new
government priorities, a more significant restructuring of the Project could have been considered, once it
became clear that the privatization component would not be continued. In addition, while the second
amendment corrected some oversights of the original design, it contributed to the complexity by adding
some new beneficiaries. A focus on a more limited number of key activities and beneficiaries might have
yielded stronger results.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, the overall rating for Bank performance is (moderately) Satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at the preparation stage is rated Satisfactory. The dialogue on privatization and
regulation had been ongoing long before the Project, and the privatization (capitalization) efforts and the
regulatory work had been supported by a number of operations. Thus, the preparation of the Project was a
logical continuation of the processes already in place. The new Government that took office in August 1997
was reform-minded and demonstrated strong commitment to the privatization process and despite some
earlier hesitations, also, the further development of the regulatory system. The Government put together a
concrete list of enterprises slated for privatization during Project implementation, reconfirming its
commitment to the reform. Finally, the Government was capable, in a timely manner, of putting together a



                                                     - 24 -

good PMU with a reliable financial management system and a transparent implementation plan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The Government failed to deliver on its
commitment to privatization and, to a large extent, to the strengthening of the regulatory system in the
conditions of rapidly growing political instability and the economic crisis of 2001-2003.       Yielding to
political pressures, the Government distanced itself from privatization and imposed constraints on the
operation of SIRESE.

Political and economic instability translated into frequent changes in Government personnel, including in
the offices vital to the implementation of this Project. This delayed implementation on many occasions. For
example, the support to the Superintendencies also required corresponding actions by the related key
ministries included in the coordination committee (which approved the assignation of resources among the
beneficiary agencies). Capacity-building in the ministries and vice-ministries was also undermined by
frequent personnel changes as well as the changes in the structure of the Government (which led to the
disappearance of some of the key beneficiaries, such as the Vice-Ministry of Investment and Privatization).

At the same time, credit should be given to the Government for working proactively on other, not originally
envisioned, areas of the business environment, in which the Project provided its assistance to the extent
possible.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PMU performance is rated (moderately) Satisfactory. The project succeeded in building a great
capacity in the PMU, made up of highly qualified professionals capable of carrying out coordination and
project management of complex activities involving multiple beneficiaries. The procurement and financial
management capacity was exemplary. The PMU performance rating was temporarily downgraded to
unsatisfactory during 2002-2003 period following the accident of the project director (the change in the
project management resulted in implementation delays and other problems).           The PMU successfully
restored and strengthened its capabilities, however, after the return of the director in November 2003.
Financial audits confirmed the generally good performance of the PMU.

Despite its significant achievements, the PMU had certain, but minor, problems worth mentioning. The
PMU failed to establish a universal procurement plan for all the beneficiaries, which led to lengthy
approval processes, as each plan for each beneficiary required separate no objections. A few beneficiaries
complained of the a lack of clarity regarding the criteria for the allocation of funds among agencies,
excessively strict procurement reviews (beyond those required by the Bank rules, as also pointed out by
Bank's procurement specialists), and some occasionally undue discretion and pressure. Some beneficiaries
also complained of the lack of flexibility and delays, as all changes in strategic plans and fund allocation
had to be approved by the Bank and an inter-ministerial coordinating committee. Nevertheless, the
management of this complex project involving a large number of beneficiary agencies was a formidable
challenge that overall the PMU mastered very well.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The Unsatisfactory rating is
based principally upon the unsatisfactory performance of the Government during implementation, which
outweighs the positive performance of the PMU and that of the Government during preparation.


8. Lessons Learned



                                                     - 25 -

The Project implementation period has shown that Bolivia is much more volatile a country, politically and
economically, than the Project had assumed back in 1998. While in 1998 it was certainly difficult to
imagine the rapid deterioration of the political and economic environment, the Project experience provides
valuable lessons for future operations in similar conditions:

Notwithstanding the government's commitment to reform, the strength of political opposition should be
considered carefully. Greater attention should be given to the potential political opposition, reflecting this
possibility appropriately in the project risks and preparing broader mitigation measures.

It is important to pay greater attention to the social situation in the country and its relation to the
supported reforms, specifically, in projects aimed at increased private sector participation. As reflected
in the PCAC capitalization assessment, while capitalization (and privatization) undoubtedly resulted in
positive objective results of improved coverage and, in many cases, reduced tariffs, popular discontent
reflected other issues. The major weaknesses included, among other, lack of explicit pro-poor focus,
deficient control and follow up by the Government, and unrealistic expectations of the population
(overselling of privatization benefits). This exposes limitations of a "typical" public information campaign
as the main mitigation tool, viewed largely as just provision of information. Efforts could include, for
example, negotiating greater social responsibilities with private companies and other type of public private
partnerships, more structured expansion programs for rural and marginal urban areas, involving the
public in the decision-making process and improving the social safety net.

Projects should be simpler and ensure greater flexibility in funds allocation. The Project suffered from
an excessive number of components and sub-components and an overly detailed initial allocation of funds
to components and beneficiaries, which slowed implementation. These are, again, especially binding
constraints in an economy characterized by substantial economic and political instability. Regardless of the
economy's stability, future Bank projects should be more flexible in these respects. Flexibility in the
technical assistance operation is very important as the TA needs can change significantly over time.

The objectives and performance indicators of a TA operation should be realistic.                 The Project
demonstrated a number of important achievements thanks to the technical assistance provided. However,
clearly a TA operation cannot be the main vehicle for the reform. The outcomes of the operation are the
most significant in the areas where Government commitment was the strongest. This, again, calls for a
greater flexibility in the design of the TA operations to allow modifications based on changes in
Government's needs and priorities.


Finally, an issue brought up in the dialogue with the stakeholders and, perhaps, deserving attention is
access to the studies financed by this project. Given the wealth of information and analyses, access to
information becomes extremely relevant. While the issue is complex (some information might be
confidential), it makes sense to introduce greater transparency into this information access process and
ensure that the useful information does not disappear in the archives.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 26 -

10. Additional Information

N/A




                              - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased Private Investment/ GDP              Due to the political instability, the economic NOT ACHIEVED. Due to the political
                                               crisis (2001-2003), the growing negative       instability, the economic crisis (2001-2003),
                                               public attitude towards privatization, the     the growing negative public attitude towards
                                               private investment/ GDP went down.             privatization, the private investment (fixed
                                                                                              capital formation)/ GDP went down - from
                                                                                              some 18% of GDP in 1998 to less than 6%
                                                                                              of GDP in 2003.
A. Financial Sector:

    A1. Banking Sector:                        The improvements in the prudential oversight ACHIEVED. The improvements in the
(i) improved enforcement of prudential         were evidenced by the sector's withstanding    prudential oversight were evidenced by the
oversight                                      the recent economic crisis. The Project        sector's withstanding the recent economic
                                               supported the application of the Basel         crisis. The Project supported the application
                                               principles of asset valuation, the preparation of the Basel principles of asset valuation, the
                                               and the implementation of the Popular Credit preparation and the implementation of the
                                               Law and the Financial Sector Strengthening     Popular Credit Law and the Financial Sector
                                               Law and related regulations.                   Strengthening Law and related regulations.

                                               Resolution of nonviable entities became        ACHIEVED. Resolution of nonviable entities
(ii) orderly consolidation of banks, including swifter, with the SBEF having better tools for became swifter, with the SBEF having better
resolution of nonviable entities               early warnings and greater authority to        tools for early warnings and greater authority
                                               intervene, including in the corporate          to intervene, including in the corporate
                                               governance processes.                          governance processes. Recent resolutions
                                                                                              include capitalization of two banks and
                                                                                              restructuring of five financial cooperatives
                                                                                              (2003-2004).

                                               In addition to above, efforts were undertaken ACHIEVED. In addition to above, efforts
(iii) improved transparency and internal and   (including by the SuperEmpresas) aimed at      were undertaken (including by the
external governance                            improving accounting standards and financial SuperEmpresas) aimed at improving
                                               reporting; a corporate governance framework accounting standards and financial reporting;
                                               was developed.                                 a corporate governance framework was
                                                                                              developed.




                                               The regulatory coordination in the
   A2. Non-banking Financial Sector:           non-banking financial sector improved with     ACHIEVED. The regulatory coordination in
(i) improved supervisory capacity and          the SPVS uniting the three intendencies        the non-banking financial sector improved
coordination                                   (Pensiones, Valores and Seguros). The          with the SPVS uniting the three intendencies
                                               regulatory capacity has grown substantially,   (Pensiones, Valores and Seguros). The
                                               in which the Project assisted by financing the regulatory capacity has grown substantially,
                                               necessary computer infrastructure, the         in which the Project assisted by financing the
                                               development of regulations and the principles necessary computer infrastructure, the
                                               of their implementation as well as by          development of regulations and the principles
                                               providing training.                            of their implementation as well as by
                                                                                              providing training.

                                               Insurance coverage has increased (by more      PARTLY ACHIEVED. The insurance
                                               than 40 percent), and the portfolio of the     coverage has increased by 41% between
(ii) increased depth of capital markets and    pension funds started its diversification away 1998 and 2002 and the portfolio of the
insurance coverage                             from government paper. Yet, the capital        pension funds started its diversification away
                                               market depth did not experience notable        from government paper (yet, non-government
                                               changes.                                       instruments still comprise less than 10% of
                                                                                              the portfolio). The stock exchange trade
                                                                                              volume remained practically the same in
                                                                                              1998 and in 2003, mostly due to the crisis of
                                                                                              2001-2003 and overall difficulties in the
                                                                                              region. In most countries in the region the
                                                                                              progress in the capital markets development
                                                                                              was negligible.




                                                                  - 28 -

B. Non-financial sector:

(i) Non-government investment in national      Due to the stagnation of the privatization        NOT ACHIEVED. Due to the stagnation of
infrastructure/ GDP increases from 1998        process, no increase in non-government            the privatization process, no increase in
level                                          investment in infrastructure took place           non-government investment in infrastructure
                                               between 1998 and 2005, as compared to the took place between 1998 and 2005, as
                                               investment in 1998.                               compared to the investment in 1998.

(ii) Changes in market structure reflecting    Growth of competition has been uneven             MOSTLY ACHIEVED. Growth of competition
greater competition                            across the sectors, with most of it               has been substantial, though uneven across
                                               concentrating in the Telecommunications           the sectors. Most of it concentrated in the
                                               sector, where the multiplicity of the PCS         Telecommunications sector, where the
                                               operators has substantially reduced the cost multiplicity of the PCS operators has
                                               of cell phone communication, making cell          substantially reduced the cost of cell phone
                                               phones the phones of the poor. Competition communication, making cell phones the
                                               in fixed line services also increased, with       phones of the poor. Competition in fixed line
                                               prices going down - yet, the connection           services also increased, with prices going
                                               charges are still considerably high, at some      down - yet, the connection charges are still
                                               US$1,500 in La Paz. In the Electricity sector, considerably high, at some US$1,500 in La
                                               competition among the generators has been         Paz. In the Electricity sector, competition
                                               impeded by the bottlenecks in the distribution among the generators has been impeded by
                                               system. In the Transportation sector, the         the bottlenecks in the distribution system. In
                                               competition has been driven by the proactive the Transportation sector, the competition
                                               regulatory role of the Superintendency - yet,     has been driven by the proactive regulatory
                                               the inability to pass the Transportation Law      role of the Superintendency - yet, the inability
                                               has been a major drawback that seriously          to pass the Transportation Law has been a
                                               impeded the development of competition in         major drawback that seriously impeded the
                                               the sector. In the Water and Sanitation           development of competition in the sector. In
                                               sector, the Superintendency's efforts,            the Water and Sanitation sector, the
                                               including in quality control, have resulted in    Superintendency's efforts, including in quality
                                               greater efficiency of the local cooperatives -    control, have resulted in greater efficiency of
                                               yet, the overall progress in the sector has       the local cooperatives - yet, the overall
                                               been impeded by the two water wars that led progress in the sector has been impeded by
                                               to cessation of private concessions.              the two water wars that led to cessation of
                                               Currently, only one of the concessions in the private concessions. Currently, only one of
                                               sector is private. While the privatization of the the concessions in the sector is private.
                                               YPFB assets has been an important step            While the privatization of the YPFB assets
                                               towards greater competition in the                has been an important step towards greater
                                               Hydrocarbons sector, the weakness of the          competition in the Hydrocarbons sector, the
                                               regulation in the sector and the                  weakness of the regulation in the sector and
                                               incompleteness of the privatization have been the incompleteness of the privatization have
                                               the major impediments. It is possible that, in    been the major impediments. While Law
                                               the current process of government                 3058 of 2005 strengthens the regulatory
                                               restructuring, the Superintendency of             system in the hydrocarbons sector, it
                                               Hydrocarbons will disappear.                      undermines the privatization efforts
                                                                                                 supported by the Project.

Privatization:

(i) Numbers of privatization or concessions of Of the YPFB assets and another 50 entities        MOSTLY NOT ACHIEVED. Of the YPFB
state-owned enterprises                        slated for privatization for the period of        assets and another 50 entities slated for
                                               Project implementation, only a part of the        privatization for the period of Project
                                               YPFB assets and just two out of the 50 other implementation, only a part of the YPFB
                                               companies have been privatized.                   assets and just two out of the 50 other
                                                                                                 companies have been privatized.

(ii) Revenues from privatization               The revenues from the privatization have          NOT ACHIEVED. The revenues from the
                                               been negligible.                                  privatization have been negligible.


(iii) Increased private investment in local    The overall increase in the private investment NOT ACHIEVED. The overall increase in the
public service providers                       in local public service providers has been        private investment in local public service
                                               practically nonexistent In fact, there has        providers has been practically nonexistent. In
                                               been divestiture in the Water and Sanitation      fact, there has been divestiture in the Water
                                               sector following the two water wars and the       and Sanitation sector following the two water
                                               cessation of the private concessions.             wars and the cessation of the private
                                                                                                 concessions.




                                                                   - 29 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Financial Sector
(i) Financial sector regulatory agencies      The SBEF and the SPVS fully functional,          MOSTLY ACHIEVED. The SBEF, the SPVS
established with capable staff and adequate   with the necessary norms and regulations         and the SuperEmpresas fully functional, with
resources.                                    developed and in place. Adequacy of              the necessary norms and regulations
                                              resources for the SPVS and the overall salary developed and in place. Adequacy of
                                              caps are a matter of concern, but not very       resources for the SPVS and the overall salary
                                              substantial.                                     caps are a matter of concern, but not very
                                                                                               substantial.

(ii) Draft laws and regulations acceptable to Draft Laws and regulations have been             ACHIEVED. Draft Laws and regulations have
IDA.                                          prepared- and played an important role in the been prepared- and played an important role
                                              development of the sector. See text for          in the development of the sector. See text for
                                              details.                                         details.


(iii) Establishment of a Deposit Guarantee    DGF has never been established, while a          NOT ACHIEVED. DGF has never been
Fund with capable staff and adequate          DGF-like arrangement is in place, but not        established, while a DGF-like arrangement is
resources                                     defined very precisely.                          in place, but not defined very precisely. This
                                                                                               arrangement, the FRF, managed by the
                                                                                               Central Bank, covers a large part of the
                                                                                               losses when a bank resolution occurs. Work
                                                                                               on a comprehensive legislation for a
                                                                                               fully-fledged deposit insurance is under way.

                                                                                               ACHIEVED. The CONFIP has worked well
(iv) Functioning of a coordination committee  The CONFIP has worked well and at some           and at some point was replaced with
(CONFIP: Comité de Normas Financieras de point was replaced with CONAPFI, a similar            CONAPFI, a similar institution. The financial
Prudencia), as evidenced by meetings and      institution.                                     sector has been able to withstand the recent
issuance of norms                                                                              crisis by and large due to the improved
                                                                                               regulation and coordination.
B. Infrastructure and Business Regulation

(i) Independent regulatory agencies for       Independence and adequacy of staffing and        PARTLY ACHIEVED; INDEPENDENCE
telecommunications, power, hydrocarbons,      resources are highly questionable. The lack      NOT ACHIEVED. Independence and
transport and water which are well-staffed    of SIRESE's control over its own funds and       adequacy of staffing and resources are highly
with adequate resources.                      the shaky position of the still-interim          questionable. The lack of SIRESE's control
                                              superintendents seriously undermine the          over its own funds and the shaky position of
                                              independence of the SIRESE.                      the still-interim superintendents seriously
                                                                                               undermine the independence of the SIRESE.
                                                                                               By now, all the six SIRESE superintendents
                                                                                               are interim.

(ii) Draft laws and regulations acceptable to The assistance in the preparation of laws and MOSTLY ACHIEVED. The assistance in the
IDA.                                          regulations has been mostly completed - yet      preparation of laws and regulations has been
                                              some of the key pieces of prepared               mostly completed - yet some of the key
                                              legislation (e.g., Transportation Law) failed to pieces of prepared legislation (e.g.,
                                              be approved - and related regulations were       Transportation Law) failed to be approved -
                                              not developed.                                   and, consequently, related regulations were
                                                                                               not developed.


C. Privatization
                                              In addition to some of the remaining YPFB        PARTLY ACHIEVED. In addition to some of
(i) Published offer for sale for selected     assets and two other enterprises, nothing        the remaining YPFB assets and two other
state-owned enterprises.                      else from the original list has been put for     enterprises, nothing else from the original list
                                              sale.                                            has been put for sale.




                                                                  - 30 -

(ii) Draft concession contracts and licenses  Public cooperatives reform has been virtually MOSTLY ACHIEVED. Public cooperatives
for public service cooperatives incorporating nonexistent Yet, concession contracts with    reform has been virtually nonexistent Yet,
performance targets.                          existing owners have been developed and       concession contracts with existing owners
                                              signed, which improved oversight.             have been developed and signed, which
                                                                                            improved oversight. Remaining efforts
                                                                                            concentrated on the evaluation of the past
                                                                                            privatization (capitalization) experience:
                                                                                            several publications were prepared and a
                                                                                            seminar took place. Much has been done in
                                                                                            the newly introduced areas of
                                                                                            competitiveness and anticorruption: the
                                                                                            assistance concentrated on the preparation
                                                                                            of a competitiveness strategy, the
                                                                                            development of corporate governance
                                                                                            legislation, anticorruption studies.


1End of project




                                                                - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                         Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Financial Sector Regulation                                                                  96
(i) Banking Sector                                             4.38            1.95             45
(ii) Non-banking sector                                        1.38            3.58            259
2. Infrastructure and Business Regulation                                                      134
(i) Cross-Sectoral and Competition Regulatory Reform           0.50            1.93            386
(ii) Sector-Specific Infrastructure Regulatory Reform          5.61            6.24            111
3. Privatization                                                                                13
(i) Divestitutre of State-Owned Enterprises                   11.61            1.63             14
(ii) Public Service Cooperatives Reform                        3.40            0.05              1
(iii) Competitiveness (after Second Amendment)                 0.00            0.21
4. Program Implementation Support                                                               82
(i) Project Management Unit                                    1.81            2.05            113
(ii) Public Information Campaign                               1.65            0.78             48
5. Unallocated                                                 2.00            0.00              0

Total Baseline Cost                                           32.34          18.43
                           Total Project Costs                32.34          18.43
                    Total Financing Required                  32.34          18.43
Project costs include cofinancing

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                              0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                              1.34           0.60          0.47         4.08        6.49
                                     (1.34)          (0.60)      (0.40)         (0.00)     (2.34)
3. Services                           0.00           0.00         16.01         7.90        23.91
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (16.01)        (0.00)     (16.01)
4. Training                           0.00           0.00          1.94         0.00        1.94
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.65)         (0.00)     (1.65)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
    Total                             1.34           0.60         18.42         11.98       32.34
                                     (1.34)          (0.60)      (18.06)        (0.00)     (20.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)



                                                  - 32 -

                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.39               0.19              1.08             0.00              1.66
                                           (0.33)             (0.16)            (0.96)            (0.00)           (1.45)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00             15.23             0.00             15.23
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (14.26)            (0.00)           (14.26)
    4. Training                             0.00               0.00              1.55             0.00              1.55
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.32)            (0.00)           (1.32)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.39               0.19             17.86             0.00             18.44
                                           (0.33)             (0.16)           (16.54)            (0.00)           (17.03)
   PMU figures, April 2005
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Financial Sector             4.56         1.20         0.00        5.08         0.45       0.00       111.4     37.5      0.0
regulation
2. Infrastructure and           4.47         1.60         0.00        7.57         0.60       0.00       169.4     37.5      0.0
Business Regulation
3. Privatization and            5.50         0.00         9.50        1.81         0.08       0.00       32.9      0.0       0.0
Competitiveness work
(after second Amendment)
4. Program                      3.46         0.00                     2.56         0.27       0.00       74.0      0.0
Implementation Support
5. Unallocated                  2.00         2.80         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0

   Based on PMU figures, April 2005




                                                           - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/ 21/1998               6    Task manager(1); Pension
                                             System Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Sector Specialist (1);
                                             Infrastructure Regulation
                                             Specialist (2); Resident
                                             Economist (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/11/1998                     In Washington, DC
              11/25/1998                1    FMS Specialist (1) - effectiveness

 Supervision

              12/11/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1); PSD                  S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/16/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (2);                      S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                             LEAD SPECIALIST (1)
              07/31/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             RESIDENT
                                             REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              11/15/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             RES REP (1); LEAD
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             WATER SPECIALIST (VIDEO
                                             (1); LEAD SPECIALIST
                                             (VIDEO (1)
              09/16/2000                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TELECOM (1)
              11/24/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                       S               S
              06/01/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              09/01/2001                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2)
              03/14/2002                1    TASK MANAGER(1)                        S               S
              09/13/2002                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             FORMER TASK MANAGER
                                             (1)



                                              - 35 -

               02/10/2003                    1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                U            S
               08/01/2003                    6    TASK MANAGER (1),                   U            S
                                                  VARIOUS SPECIALISTS (5),
                                                  TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               04/08/2004                    2    TASK MANAGER (1);                   S            S
                                                  TELECOM SPECIALIST (1)
               09/30/2004                    4    TASK MANAGER (1);                   S            S
                                                  PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2);
                                                  TELECOM SPEC. (1)
               02/24/2005*                   1    TASK MANAGER (1)                    S            U


 ICR
               02/28/2005*                  1     ECONOMIST (1)                       S            U

* The ratings are Moderately Satisfactory (Implementation) and Moderately Unsatisfactory (Outcome)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  14.9                           33.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         3.3                           7.1
  Supervision                                148.7                         530.8
  ICR                                           6.0                          18.2
  Total                                      173.9                         589.1




                                                  - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Apparisal Document.
2. Development Credit Agreement 3108-BO.
3. Project Status and Project Implementation Reports.
4. Evaluation of the Project prepared by the Project Implementation Unit.




                                                   - 39 -

- 40 -

