Documn of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MI C  .  '(AIHE CC)PY    C-     
Repot N.. P-5390-VAS
[SeEport Nocz. P- 5:390t-VA7
UNG'FR, HPWl/ X'i!i 1'/      A.'blN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE-
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 2.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
FOR A
HOUSING PROJECT
MAY 21, 1991
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 15, 1990)
Currency Unit     Vatu (VT)
VT 100    =  $0.88
$1.00     =  VT 114
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -    Asian Development Bank
AIDAB        -    Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
CDC          -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CEM          -    Country Economic Memorandum
ESW          -    Economic Sector Work
GOV          -    Government of Vanuatu
HRF          -    Housing Refinance Facility
JGF          -    Japanese Grant Facility
NHC          -    Vanuatu National Housing Corporation
PI           -    Participating Intermediary
RER          -    Regional Economic Report
SLR          -    Secure Lending Rate
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFMCIUL USE ONLY
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers            Republic of Vanuatu
Beneficiaries:       National Housing Corporation (NUC)
Participating commercial banks and institutions
Amounts              SDR 2.5 million ($3.375 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:     Part of the proceeds of the credit, equivalent to $1.1
million, will be onlent by the Government of Vanuatu
(GOV) through the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV), at the
Secure Lending Rate (SLR)--which is currently 9 percent--
to participating financial intermediaries (PIs) for
refinancing mortgage loans made to eligible purchasers of
serviced lots and houses. IDA refinancing will be for
terms matching those of PI mortgage loans to project
beneficiaries (10-20 years). Pls will relend these funds
to beneficiaries at variable market rates which currently
range between 12 and 14 percent. GOV will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:
$ million
Government of Vanuatu                                    0.12
Participating Intermediaries                             0.43
Project beneficiaries' downpayments                      0.84
Government of Japan                                      0.18
IDA                                                      3.38
Total Financing Required                              4.95
Economic Rate of Return: 19 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 9044-VAN
MaP:                       IBRD No. 22432
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank wt,$-rization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
FOR A HOUSING PROJECT
The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Vanuatu for SDR 2.5 million ($3.375
million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit will help
finance a Housing Project and will be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity. Part of the proceeds of the credit. equivalent to $1.1 million,
will be onlent by the Government of Vanuatu (GOV) through the Reserve Bank of
Vanuatu (RBV). at the Secure Lending Rate (SLR)--which is currently
9 percent--to participating financial intermediaries (PIs) for refinancing
mortgage loans made to eligible purchasers of serviced lots and houses. IDA
refinancing will be for terms matching those of PI mortgage loans to project
beneficiaries (10-20 years). PIs will relend these funds to beneficiaries at
variable market rates which currently range between 12 and 14 percent. GOV
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.1       The Republic of Vanuatu, formerly known as the New Hebrides, is an
archipelago of 80 islands, with a total land area of 12,000 square kilometers
and a population of 140,000 persons. Although 24,000 (17 percent) live in one
of the two municipalities, Vanuatu is an agrarian based economy, with formal
sector activities confined largely to the capital city, Port Vila. The urban
population (24,000 people) is growing at about twice the rate of overall
population growth (currently estimated at 2.4 percent) and Port Vila, with
about 18,000 people, is growing at more than 7 percent per annum. GDP per
capita averages $860; excluding expatriate earnings, however, average incomes
are estimated at $350 per capita, amongst the lowest in the South Pacific.
1.2       From 1906 to 1980, Vanuatu was an Anglo-French condominium, an
agreement involving three separate administrations--British, French and Joint.
Since independence in July 1980, the Government has been actively promoting
the use of a common language, the unification of the three separate
administrative systems and the replacement of foreign civil servants with Ni-
Vanuatu. However, faced with a severe shortage of trained personnel,
expatriate advisers continue to play an important role in the formal sector of
the economy.
1.3       The economy of Vanuatu is highly dualistic, with about 80 percent of
the population engaged in non-market, subsistence agriculture. The primary
activities in the subsistence sector are production of root crops and tropical
fruits. Copra, coffee and cocoa are produced for sale, but on a small scale.
The formal, urban sector of the economy is dominated by services. Government,
tourism and the International Finance Center (offshore banking and shipping
registry) are the principle sources of employment. Other important urban-
based activities include small scale industrv (fish and meat processing.
tanning and wood processing). There is also plantation agriculture and a



livestock ranch. In total, the public sector accounts for about half of all
paid employment with about 4,300 employees.
1.4       The smallness of Vanuatu, the vast distances that separate it from
its major markets and the lack of a skilled work force present formidable
obstacles to economic growth. Vanuatu is also highly vulnerable to cyclones
whichi have devastated economic infrastructure with alarming frequency. In the
public sector, Vanuatu is still adjusting to the withdrawal of budgetary
support from the United Kingdom and France.  Despite these constraints, there
is significant potential for econonic growth and development. Vanuatu is
endowed with a relatively abundant supply of fertile agricultural land and
sizeable fisheries and forest resources.  In addition, considerable potential
exists for expansion in the tourism and financial services areas.
Recent Economic Developments
1.5       For the 1980s as a whole, GNP has expanded at an average of about 2
percent per annum in real terms, whereas population has grown at 3 percent per
annum. In addition, output growth has been charactvrized by a high degree of
year-to-year volatility. Economic and political disturbances associated with
Independence resulted in a 10 percent reduction in GDP in 1980. From 1980 to
1985, GDP increased at an average rate of 6 percent per annum fueled by
healthy growth in coconut exports and tourism. In 1985 and again in 1987,
severe cyclones struck Vanuatu causing widespread damage. In 1986, copra
prices fell t.y 50 percent and beef exports declined as key export markets were
lost. At the same time, air transport problems resulted in a 30 percent fall
in tourist arrivals. The combined effect of lower prices and a loss of
markets for Roods and tourism was a 50 percent fall in export earnings in
1986. In response, the Government devalued its currency, the Vatu, by 23
percent duriitg 1986.
1.6       A3 a result of the deteriorating external environment, output
stagnated between 1985-1987. Inflation rose sharply to a peak of 16 percent
in 1987, reflecting supply shortages following the cyclones and higher import
prices. Adverse trends in the real sectors were reflected in the balance of
payments. Foreign reserves, which had accumulated in the first half of the
1980s, were drawn down in order to finance the widening trade deficit.
1.7       From 1988 to 1990, the economy entered a period of recovery as a
result oft (i) improvement in world coconut prices; (ii) recovery of tourism
and resumption of international air carrier service; (iii) an upturn in
Finance Center activity and (iv) an abatement of political unrest by mid-1989.
The prospects are for further increases in tourism and fisheries earnings
which should enable growth on the order of 2-3 percent per annum in real terms
for 1991 and 1992.
1.8       Considerable opportunities exist in Vanuatu for development in small
scale agriculture, livestock, agro-processing, tourism and financial services.
The nation has a rich endowment of natural resources; a well established
foundation and basis for expansion in tourism and related activities and a
well established base for providing offshore banking services. The Government
has been active in developing programs to exploit these opportunities; in
particular to attract investment in tourism and the financial sector.
Likewise, efforts have been made to encourage smallscale treecrop and



-3
livestock production, although due to weaknesses in commodity prices and lack
of supporting institutions, growth in smallscale agriculture has not been
forthcoming.
1.9       Sustained development with steadily improving standards of living in
Vanuatu will require a higher rate of growth of output and employment in the
face of labor force growing at 3 percent per annum for at least another
decade. This in turn will require higher levels of private and public
investment. At the same time, a broader basis for growth must be established
to achieve the objectives of poverty alleviation, employment generation and
regional balance. Also, improved access to basic services, including, in
particular, health and education, is essential to the alleviation of poverty
and the development of a labor force able to contribute to broad-based growth.
1.10      To meet these development objectives, the Government will need tot
*    continue to give close attention to the maintenance of macroeconomic
stability and take further steps to improve domestic resource
mobilization;
-   expand public investment in infrastructure and basic services;
*    promote the role of the private sector in growth. particularly by
improving the access to and breadth of the financial system; and
*    protect the environment.
1.11      Domestic Resource Mobilization.  Domestic resource mobilization in
Vanuatu is still very weak with domestic savings, excluding those in the
Finance Center, at approximately 6 percent of GDP. Almost all of these
savings are in the private sector. Since Independence, the Government has
experienced persistent fiscal difficulties. As a tax-haven nation, with
relatively duty-free external trade, Vanuatu's domestic revenue mobilizatlon
effort rests largely on a small number of sales taxes and registration fees.
As a result, Government receipts have not been sufficient to meet recurrent
costs and support public investment. Consequently, the public investment
program is almost entirely dependent on financing by donors. The weaknesses
in public resource mobilizations have stemmed froms (i) a large public sector
with multiple services and expenditure programs as a result of the
administrative structures inherited from the condominium powers; (ii) a narrow
tax base, noted for an absence of income and corporate tax to promote offshore
banking; and (iii) a gradual withdrawal of British and French budgetary
support following Independence. Fiscal deficits became most severe during the
1985-1987 period, reaching a peak of 6 percent of GDP. Since that time, the
Government has made an effort to reduce expenditures and enhance revenue
collections to bring public expenditure into a better balance. On the revenue
side, the Government has increased duty rates for a number of products and
reduced tariff exemptions. On the expenditure side, the Government has placed
a freeze on public sector salaries since 1985, reduced recurrent cost spending
in 1989 by 10-15 percent across the board and instituted a series of cost
recovery measures for community development projects. As a result of these
measures, the fiscal balance has begun to improve and the Government is now
financing nearly 100 percent of recurrent expenditures from domestic revenues.
Capital spending, however, remains highly dependent on foreign grant sources,



- 4 -
with domestic financing contributing only about a quarter of total development
outlays.
1.12      Of special interest in the case of Vanuatu is the problem of
recurrent cost financing. The Government's ability to finance the recurrent
costs associated with modest additions to public infrastructure and services
is in doubt given the narrowness of the domestic tax base. In the absence of
adequate recurrent cost financing, it is difficult to finance much needed
additions to economic infrastructure and social services without excessive
reliance or foreign assistance. In the long run, revamping Vanuatu's capacity
to mobilize domestic resources will be necessary to ensure the sustainability
of public investment. This will require broadening the tax base while
maintaining an incentives environment appropriate for sustaining foreign
investment.
l 13      Economic Infrastructure.  Further development of transport,
comi%nications, power and sanitation infrastructure is necessary in order to
supp)!t private investment in tourism, agriculture and agro-industry.  At
present, the provision of infrastructure suffers from a number of
deficiencies. The main urban centers suffer from overtaxed sewage and water
supply services but are otherwise served reasonably well in terms of
infrastructure requirements. The majority of rural are:is by comparison have
limited access to transport services, communication facilities, power and
water supplies. Inter-island shipping and air services are generally
inadequate, and only a little more than 50 percent of the rural population
have access to safe drinking water. Unit costs of providing services and
infrastructure facilities on outlying islands are high given the islands'
geographic spread and relatively low population.
1.14      The Government has allocated nearly a quarter of its investment
budget to the transport sector. Procedures for road and port maintenance are
being established and Government has altered its maritime pricing policies to
allow for increased user participation in meeting the operations and
maintenance costs of these facilities. In the near-term, the Government
should focus attention on completing ongoing infrastructure projects and in
maintaining existing assets. As the domestic resource situation improves,
constderable effort should be made to expand infrastructure in the poorly
served parts of the country. In addition to providing the basis for longer-
term growth and development, this will also help to broaden participation in
the growth process by improving the integration of remote rural areas with the
capital and, during the development phase, augmenting employment opportunities
in the construction industry. A stronger public investment program will
require improved capacity to identify and prepare projects, as well as
adequate recurrent financing to operate and maintain these assets.
1.15      Poverty and Access to Social Services.  Access to adequate health
and education services is a key factor limiting human resource development and
poverty alleviation. Vanuatu's social indicators are amongst the weakest in
the South Pacific (Table 1 below shows the details). At Independence, the
adult literacy rate in Vanuatu was estimated at 13 percent and there were only
10 University graduates in the country. While the situation has improved over
the past decade, it is estimated that 70 percent of the population is still
illiterate, compared with 27 percent for all lower middle-income countries.
Similarly, the number of individuals with tertiary education is still amongst



the lowest in the South Pacific. Of particular concern to upgrading
technical, management and professional skill levels is the very low percentage
of students enrolled at the secondary level and the number of trained ni-
Vanuatu teachers. Only about. I in 10 secondary students go on to upper
secondary studies resulting in a very small pool of students with an
appropriate academic foundation to progress to technical and tertiary studies.
Only half of the ni-Vanuatu secondary teAchers (one-third of the secondary
teaching force) have secondary teaching qualifications. These factors have
led to a heavy reliance on expatriate personnel, both in commerce and in the
Government.  In response to these weaknesses, the Government is undertaking an
ambitious program to train teachers, provide functional literacy training,
rationalize education expenditures, increase the supply of overseas trained
technicians, develop specialized technical training facilities and gradually
replace expatriate advisors in Government service with local staff. The
Government programs are supported by major donors, including the Bank, through
development of school facilities, provision of teachers and technical
assistance and scholarships. Continued and accelerated development of the
education sector is a high priority for Government and donors alike. A well
trained workforce is an essential ingredient to mobilizing local resources and
for the efficient management and operation of the economy. Appropriately
targeted education opportunities can be instrumental in alleviating poverty in
the long term and providing access to disadvantaged groups.
TAble 1: SOCIAL INDICATORS, 1908 /a
Lower
Middle
Solomon                 Western  Income
unit   Fiji Kiribati  Islands   Tongs  Vanuatu  Samoa  Countries
SchoolIng: Gross
Enroliment Rates
- primary           %    129       )94     40      n*..    87       99      104
- secondary                6S              11      n.s.    12       62       49
Adult illiteracy rate         15     10       85     n.m.    70        2       27
Access to safe water
- urban             X      87    nS         o      100     9S       75      n.e.
- rural             %      66      64     n.a.      71     64       67      n.s.
Infant mortalIty    per '000  21     82       40 (i)   28     SE     S        ST
rate                btrths                   86 (f)
LIfe expectancy
at birth            years   70      58       0o      66      es       e6      e6
Daily calorie supply    cal/   2902   2986    2160    2940   2844    2470    2788
person
/a Or more recent estimate.
Source: World eank, 'Social Indicators of Development, 1989.'
1.16      Access to basic health and sanitation services remains a concern.
While malnutrition is not a problem, access to health services and potable
water is poor. Consequently, infant mortality rates are high (56 per 1,000



births) by the standards of the South Pacific region. Morbidity problems.
associated with malaria, have been sewver-.  Vanuatu's population growth
rtmains high with the ni-Vanuatu rate approaching 3 percent and an urban
growth rate of 7.5 percent. This has leC 4o a poor standard of housing
development and with it associated health problems such as communicable
diseases. Limited scope exists to expand health services under current
budgetary constraints. In the health sector, Government and donors have
focused expenditures on controlling outbursts of epidemics and on establishing
basic health care facilities for the rural population. Continued efforts are
needed to further increase the quality and expand access to basic health
services, particularly for disadvantaged and remote community groups.
1.17      Private Sector Development.  Cpntral to the restoration of sustained
growth and development will be increased participation of the private sector
in the Vanuatu economy. Although Vanuatu has a relatively outward oriented
trade re3ime and a neutral tax system, political uncertainties, excessive
reliance on the public sector and parastatal corporations and weaknesses in
the legal framework hinder private investment response. In recognition of the
need to generate increased private investment, the Government has promulgated
an Investment Incentives Act which provides for streamlined investment
approvals and public assistance in securing access to lands and natural
resources. In addition to an enabling incentives ervironment, the private
sector will require an adequate and appropriate mix of financing in order to
undertake new investment. At present, the financial sector is short-term in
nature; concentrated on lending in Port Vila and heavily oriented towards
serving the modern sector of the economy. Government sponsored financial
institutions suffer from weak management, a high rate of arrears and limited
reach. Development of a more competitive financial system, which can provide
term financing to a broader segment of society, is essential to facilitate an
increase in private sector investment.
1.18      Entironment.  In the long-run, Vanuatu's economic prospects will
hinge on the extent to which it can manage its natural resource base in a
sustainable fashion. For tourism, the maintenance of Vanuatu's natural beauty
is essential. In the resource-based sectors, appropriate management is
required to provide for the needs of both present and future generations.
Vanuatu's principal environmental concerns are excessive exploitation of
natural hardwoods and damage to marine resources resulting from excessive and
inappropriate fishSng techniques. The Government has prepared a forestry
action plan which outliaes a series of steps needed to help contain
deforestation. In addition, the Government negotiated a fisheries agreement
with both the United States and the Soviet Union in 1987 which places limits
on the allowable fish catch in Vausat'u wpters and the type of fishing
equipment that may be used.  Further mcasures will be required to ensure that
the fisheries agreement is enforced; that other nations do not violate
Vanuatu's exclusive economic zone and damage marine resources; and that
forestry resources are better monitored and utilized. At present, Vanuatu is
preparing an environmental action plan for the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development (UNCED) to be held in June 1992. The action plan
is expected to focus on problems of coastal resource management and forest
sector development.



Bank roup Strategy
Country Assistance Strategy and Priorities
1.19      To assist in achieving the Government's development objectives, the
Bank Groups strategy will emphasises
*    sustained economic growth to reverse the stagnation of the 1980s;
*   private sector developmentt
*   refocusing of public sector activities on infrastructure and human
resource development;
*   development of institutional capacity: and
*    support for improved aid coordination among donors.
Sustained Growth
1.20      Central to the restoration of growth and alleviation of poverty will
be a policy framework that encourages macroeconomic stability, efficient
private sector development and sustained improvement in human resources and
physical infrastructure. Bank staff have recently completed a regional
economic report (RER) which sets out a framework for policy reform in Vanuatu,
as well as in the other Pacific member nations (PMCs)-
1.21      The Bank plans to undertake a broad-based program of economic and
sector work on the South Pacific, to underpin policy advice on development
strategies and policies for accelerated growth in the 1990s. Future ESW
efforts for Vanuatu will be focused ons Mi) deepening and refining the
economic policy reform strategies outlined in the 1990 RER and (ii)
identifying strategies for improved investment planning and management
particularly with regards to essential infrastructure and human resource
development. A major area of emphasis for policy analysis will be on
developing strategies for broadening the domestic tax effort, in order to
increase public savings for investment and to meet recurrent cost obligations.
Development of the Private Sector
1.22      The Bank's strategy to support private sector development in Vanuatu
is tos
*   provide support in improving the enabling environment; and
*    identify specific projects suitable for private investment.
1.23      Enabling Environment.  A major focus of the above-mentioned economic
and sector work program will be the enabling environment for private sector
development. This would include a review of the incentive regime and
regulatory framework as well as the policy and institutional framework for
financial sector development. The proposed Housing Project is aimed at
broadening the base of activities of the financial system. The project would
involve, for the first time, commercial banks in housing finance and by



- 8a 
ensuring market rates for mortgage loans, will promote the mobilization of
savings for meeting an Important social demand.
1.24      Role of the I$C.  Project preparation capacity is limited in the
private sector as well. This, in addition to limited outlets for private
sector project finance, constrains private investment activity. The INC has
established a South Pacific Facility to assist in identifying entrepreneurs,
developing bankable projects and arranging appropriate sources of finance,
including equity investment. IDA will support tne IFC's efforts to identify
and source equity finance assistance to small enterprises.
1.25      Support for Smallholder Agriculture.  Transforming traditional
agriculture will require a combination of institutional development and
provision of economic infrastructure. In the IDA/ADB Agriculture Extension
Project (1983), assistance was provided to develop technology outreach
services for treecrop producers in remote locations. In the ongoing
Multiproject (1986), assistance is being provided to develop wharves, jetties
and rural roads which will improve market access for the farm community.
Infrastructure Development
1.26      Maintaining and expanding the infrastructure base is one of the
central priorities for public expenditure in Vanuatu in order to support
private sector growth and broaden the access to basic services. However,
given Vanuatu's absorptive capacity constraints, particularly the limited
human capital and financial resources, Government expenditure on
infrastructure needs to be tightly focused on clearly articulated priority
programs and projects including urban areas where cost recovery is feasible.
1.27      The Bank's strategy to meet these needs is to:
e   provide policy advice to help sharpen development strategy and
target government expenditure; and
*   expand infrastructure facilities and basic services.
1.28      Two sector studies on energy and transportation are in progress to
identify and examine regional and country development constraints, needs and
development options to facilitate improved provision and operation of
essential infrastructure. This proposed housing credit is designed to address
problems of providing shelter to meet rapid growth in the urban population and
as such is targeted at one of the essential needs of lower income groups. It
will also assist in framing future urban planning and development options and
strategies, and could provide the basis for a follow-up municipal development
project.
Human Resource Development
1.29      Human resource development is another central priority for public
expenditure and support in Vanuatu. The Bank is playing a significant role in
expanding and improving the quality of education. Secondary school facilities
are being improved and teacher qualifications upgraded under a cofinanced
education project (1989). An institutional development component is also
included to strengthen the Ministry of Education's policy, planning and



- 9 -
program implementation capacity. Under the current post-secondary education
sector study, analysis of manpower requirements and existing technical and
tertiary training opportunities will provide a framework for determining
programs to meet future workforce skill requirements. The ongoing project is
expected to be followed by a Recond Education project in about four years time
that would support further expansion of facilities as well as continued
improvements in the quality of education programs. In the area of tertiary
education, the Bank is undertaking a Post-Secondary Education study that will
evaluate the effectiveness of existing programs and recommend strategies for
improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of tertiary education in the
South Pacific region.
1.30      In the health sector, a sector study that will commence in FY93, is
expected to identify basic needs and development priorities for establishing
an effective health service. This study will underpin policy discussions with
Government on development strategy in the health sector, and could provide the
basis for future assistance from IDA.
Development of Institutional Capacities
1.31      IDA w211 support a range of interventions designed to improve
Vanuatu's capacity to identify, prepare and implement a public investment
program to support a growth oriented development strategy. Despite pressing
development needs and ample sources of concessionary finance, the absence of a
pipeline of economically viable investment projects constitutes a major
impediment to investment and growth. IDA will support institutional
strengthening through its ongoing investment operations, such as in education
and as proposed in housing, to develop line Ministry capacity to identify,
prepare and implement investment operations. IDA will, in addition, provide
support to broader efforts designed to shift central government planning from
the present comprehensive five-year plan approach to a strategic, project
based orientation. This will include, inter alia, support to the UNDP's
review of project planning capacities and an assessment of project planning
and implementation to be included in the FY93 regional economic report.
Improved Aid Coordination
1.32      Improving aid coordination is essential because of the high
proportion or public investment and technical assistance financed by many
bilateral and multilat.,ral sources. The Bank's principal role in aid
coordination will be to support the already established UNDP Roundtable
process which reviews Vanuatu's development and investment needs on a biannual
basis. Consideration is being given to strengthening the UNDP Roundtable
process and to link it with the annual Ptzrfic Forum meetings.
1.33      In financing projects, the Bank Group will continue to work together
with other donors having a significant regional presence. Many of the Bank
Group's operations in the South Pacific have been under cofinancing
arrangements with the ADB. Aid coordination procedures were agreed in 1980
under which the ADB would take the lead in preparing and supervising
cofinanced projects. The decision by the ADB to strengthen its operational
center in Port Vila and to establish a South Pacific Fund should provide ADB
with an enhanced capacity for identifying potential cofinancing activities.
As this capacity develops, the relationship between the Bank Group and the ADB



- 10 -
should be strengthened to ensure effective working arrangements. Close
contact will be maintained with the ADB's regional office through regular
visits and exchange of operational information.
1.34      Australia has become a major supporter of Bank Group activities in
the South Pacific. Under the South Pacific Facility of the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) support has been made
available for Bank Group activities in the region, especially in regional
training organized by EDI and for an expanded program of economic and sector
work. Administrative support in the form of secondment of an AIDAB staff
member to the Bank Group is being provided under the facility as well. During
the past two fiscal years an amount of about $830,000 was provided under the
AIDAB Facility to support Bank Group operations in the region.
1.35      Vanuatu is on a bi-annual cycle of consultation with the IMF; the
last Article IV consultation took place in March 1991. The IMP is playing a
key role in the development of the central banking system through its
technical assistance to the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu.
IDA Operations in Vanuatu
1.36      Since Vanuatu became a member in 1981. it has received three IDA
credits totaling $12 million as shown in Table 2. Two of these projects were
cofinanced with the Asian Development Bank and one with Australia.
Table 2: VANUATU: PROJECTS UNDER SUPERVISION
Cof innacin
Fiscal       Project             IDA         AD8        AIDAN
Credit No.       year                            (US%)        (USOM)      (USU)
1407-VAN         84       Agric. Extenslon
and Training          1.2 La        0.6
166-VAN          68       Multiprolect           2.0           8.0
1964-VAN         69       Educatlon              6. St         *-i
Total*:               11.2          8.6        T.?
Le Net of cancel ltions. Credit has been close.
1.37      Future lending operations will concentrate on infrastructure and
human resource development subject to the identification and preparation of
suitable projects. In addition to the housing project proposed in this
memorandum, the Bank is discussing with the Government further assistance to
the education sector, to develop the minerals sector and support for municipal
sector development. This assistance will be coordinated with the ADB and
possibilities for cofinancing suitable projects under the cooperation
arrangements between ADS and the Bank Group will be explored. Subject to the
identification of suitable projects, the level of IDA commitment could average
up to $3 million per annum.



- 11 -
1.38      Vanuatu's debt indicators remain low, reflecting continuing access
to grants and highly concessional finance to meet the external financing
requirements. While recurrent expenditure is almost covered by domestic
revenues, public investment is virtually wholly dependent on assistance from a
few aid donors. Although external debt remains low, the economy remains
vulnerable to downturns in export commodity prices, adverse weather conditions
and decreases in the level of external assistance. Under these circumstances,
it would not be prudent for Vanuatu to resort to any significant borrowing on
commercial terms; it should continue to rely on external grant financing for
much of its investment expenditure.
Summary
1.39      Past operations of the Bank have been focussed on human resource
development and on agriculture including related infrastructure needs. To
date, assistance has been provided to Vanuatu under three operations, two
cofinanced with the ADB and the other cofinanced with AIDAB. Future Bank
activities will continue in human resource development and also focus on
social infrastructure, in accord with IDA's sector priorities for Vanuatu.
Education and municipal development are possible areas of activity to be
discussed with Government. The Bank aims to provide an IDA commitment in the
order of $2-3 million per annum, subject to the identification of suitable
projects.
-I. THE PROJECT
2.1       Background.  Rapid growth has doubled the urban population in the
ten years since independence and has strained urban services, especially
housing.  Housing production has not kept pace with demand from the growing
population. An increasing proportion of the urban population, currently over
252, is living in slums and informal settlements where rents are high for very
poor quality housing. The problem affects all income groups as there is a
general housing shortage, but is most acute for lower and middle income
households.
2.2       Kev Sector Issues.  The following sector issues need to be
addressed: (a) limited availability of mortgage finance--lending for housing
by private banks has been constrained by (i) lack of affordable serviced lots
and housing for the bulk of the urban population; (ii) lack of long-term
deposits to match mortgage loans; and (iii) lack of lending experience to
middle and lower income groups; (b) lack of po'.icy framework--GOV does not
have explicit housing and urbanization policies (especially for ensuring a
stable supply of lsnd for urban growth); public and private sector roles are
not clearly defined; planning, some construction and land development
standards, are still inappropriate; (c) weak sector institution--the recently
established National Housing Corporation (NHC) responsible for land
development, is small and lacks the expertise necessary to supply an adequate
quantity of serviced land for housing construction. Land acquisition,
management and tenure arrangements (including foreclosure on mortgage
security) are adequate in the two cities, but not outside municipal boundaries
where land must be acquired directly from customary owners and enforcement of
lease terms is problematic. Land itself is not an issue for urban development
and housing in the short to medium term, but the policy and legal/



- 12 -
administrative framework for extending muticipal boundaries must be put in
place to ensure orderly urban growth over the longer term. Improving the
capabilities of the municipal authorities will need to be addressed in future
phases to strengthen the basis for sustainable urban management.
2.3       Government Strategy.  GOV's strategy for dealing with the above
issues is still evolving. GOV established NHC in 1987 to acquire and develop
land, and build houses and provide mortgage finance, especially for lower
income groups. GOV then approached IDA for financing of a 500 unit project:
this was based on inappropriate standards requiring heavy subsidies to reach
the target population. After discussions with the Association, GOV
reformulated the project on the basis of appropriate standards limited NHC
activities to land development and allowed the private banks to provide
mortgage finance for serviced lot purchase and house construction.
2.4       Rationale for IDA's Involvement.  IDA has no prior experience in the
housing or urban sectors in Vanuatu on which to base the formulation of the
project. However, the experience of the preparation of the Fiji Housing
Project is relevant because of similarities in traditional land tenure, the
legacy of the failed public sector approach in Fiji and the need for policies
stimulating greater private sector participation. Elimination of constraints
on the housing market and the financial sector, which cause the shortage of
housing will take perhaps 10 years. IDA's strategy for the development of the
housing and urban sectors therefore takes a long view. In its first effort
IDA cannot address all issues, but will focus on establishing a policy
framework, introducing affordable housing products, strengthening the main
public sector institution (NHC), and assisting the financial sector to
undertake term transformation appropriate to housing finance by relieving the
shortage of term funds. IDA's involvement is justified by the opportunitv to
contribute to the emerging strategy formulation--as already demonstrated
during the preparatory phase--by its experience in housing finance in other
countries, and by its ability to provide term financing as the basis for a
sustainable housing program. No other donor has so far shown a definite
commitment to the sector, but it is expected that IDA's initiative will draw
in other donors who will sustain and broaden this intervention to address
other issues such as land management and municipal operations and raising
long-term funds from local sources. A follow-up operation by IDA to reinforce
and broaden these initiatives may be considered.
2.5       Project Obiectives.  The objectives of the project are to supports
(a) improved sector policies leading to the development of a market-based
housing development and finance system; (b) sound institutional framework for
the sector, including strengthening NHC and involving participation by the
private sector; (c) increased supply of affordable housing to middle and lower
income groups; and (d) increased long-term finance for housing for middle and
lower income groups from the private financial sector.
2.6       Project Description.  The project components comprises
(a) financing for affordable land development undertaken by NHC and house
construction by individual lot purchasers for about 400 lower and middle
income households channelled through private banks; (b) technical asiistance,
training and equipment supporting improved systems and procedures for NHC;
(c) off-site water supply improvements; (d) relocation of the rubbish dump
site and support for solid waste management; (e) technical assistance and



13 -
studies supporting further policy formulation. Onlending terms to prlvate
banks and final beneficiaries will be market-based. NHC has acquired the two
project sites (both within municipal boundaries) and -ill plan and design the
site development with short-term funds raised locally and sell lots after
engaging private contractors for civil works. Private banks will finance plot
purchases and house construction. Project housing is expected to be
affordable to households from the 15th percentile upward of the urban income
distributiont eligibility will be limited to households below the 75th income
percentile.
2.7       The proposed project will be implemented by NHC, the Borrower's
sector agencies and participating financial intermediaries over a four-year
period. The project cost is estimated at $4.95 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of $3.2 million (64 percent) and taxes and duties
estimated at about $0.1 million equivalent. The total external financing
required is $3.56 million equivalent of which IDA will finance $3.375 million
equivalent (100 percent of the foreign exchange and 68 percent of the total).
Other sources of financing will be private banks (9 percent), beneficiaries
down payments (17 percent), and the Japanese Grant Facility (4 percent).
Eligible expenditures incurred after July 15, 1990, up to a total of $335,000
equivalent (SDR 250,000) will be financed retroactively. A breakdown of costs
and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of
procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Vanuatu are shown in Schedules C and D respectively. A map is
also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 9044-VAN dated May 20, 1991 is
being distributed separately.
2.8       Environment.  The project will have an immediate and significant
positive impact on the physical environments of Port Vila and Luganville and
will in the longer term contribute to improved planning, control, and
monitoring of human settlement. Properly desipned and economically
constructed infrastructure systems will be supported under the project. The
project will measurably improve environmental conditions for about 400
households, with regard particularly to sanitation, food preparation, cyclone
protection, and crowding.  Better solid waste management and disposal will be
an additional benefit to Port Vila's entire population.
2.9       Agreed Actions.  During negotiations assurances and confirmation
were obtained from GOV on the following: (i) no amendments to NHC policy
statement without consultation with IDA; (ii) timely installation of off-site
water mains for project site; (iii) annual review of the operation and
performance of the Housing Refinance Facility; and (iv) annual review of
achievement of performance targets by NHC. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
will bet (a) execution of at least one participation agreement between GOV
and participating intermediaries; and (b) completion of arrangements to use
the new landfill site.
2.10      Benefits and Risks.  The project will provide about 400 middle and
lower income households (including squatters) with affordable serviced plots
and houses and will, meet about 20 percent of the estimated total demand in
Port Vila and Luganville. The project will support the development of
policies and standards leading to an improved supply response and enhanced



- 14 -
private sector involvements private sources of funding for housing will be
mobilized.
2.11      Main risks for the project are thatt  (a) GOV will not sustain the
political will to back NBC in the application of appropriate development
standards; (b) private banks will not be willing to continue to make loans to
potential purchasers at affordable ratess 4ad (c) GOV will not permit banks to
foreclose on defaulting low income and civil service project beneficlaries.
These risks are mitigated bys (i) the Increasing understanding and acceptance
of senior levels of government of the benefits of appropriate standards:
(U) the design of the loan component on the basis of the commercial banks'
own lending criteria; and (iii) GOV's specific recognition of private bank
lending to project beneficiaries as a superior means of cost recovery. A
further mitigating factor has been the pilot project which has already tested
the market and confirmed the effective demand.
2.12      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Ba4ter B. Conable
'resident
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1991



- 15 -                           Schedule A
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(S million)
Estimated Costs la                              Local     Foreign      Total
A. Lot Development and House
Construction Loans                    1.16        1.04        2.20
B. NHC Institutional Strengthening         0.17        0.40        0.57
C. Off-site Water Supply                   0.02        0.06        0.08
D. Port Vila Landfill Site                 0.14        1.16        1.30
E. Policy Formulation                        -         0.13        0.13
Base Cost (June 1990)                1.49        2.79       4.29
Physical Contingencies                     0.07        0.14        0.21
Price Contingencies                        0.20        0.25        0.45
Total Pro3ect Cost lb                1.77        3.18       4.95
Financing Plan:
Government                                  0.12      -           0.12
Participating Intermediaries                0.43      -           0.43
Project beneficiaries down payments         0.84      -           0.84
Government of Japan                         -         0.18        0.18
IDA                                         0.38      3.00        3.38
Total Financing                        1.77      3.18       4.95
la  Totals may not add due to rounding.
Lb Includes about $0.1 million equivalent in duties.



- 16 -
Schedule B
Page 1
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
(S million)
Procurement Procedure /a
Expenditure Category              ICB       LCB      Other Lb  N.A./c   Total
Subloans                            -        -         -          2.44      2.44
(1.21)    (1.21)
Civil works                         -       0.93       0.16       -         1.09
(0.81)    (0.14)      -        (0.95)
Goods                               0.37    _          0.30       -         0.67
(0.35)             (0.25)              (0.60)
Consulting services, technical      -        -         0.55       0.20      0.75
assistance and training                             (0.44)    (0.18)    (0.62)
Total                          0.37    0.93       1.01      2.64       4.95
(0.35)  (0.81)    (0.83)    (1.39)    (3.38)
La   Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
1b   Includes force account work, local and international shopping, and
consultant selection following World Bank guidelines.
Ic   Includes refinancing of eligible mortgage loans and expenditures covered
by cofinancing.



- 17 -
Schedule B
Page 2
Disbursements
($ million)
Category                          Amount          Expenditures to be financed
Subloans                           1.110          752 of eligible mortgage loans
Civil works for off-site
infrastructure                   0.850          902
Goods (vehicles & equipment)        0.480         10O? of foreign; and 1002 of
local expenditures ex-factory
702 of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consulting Services,
technical assistance and
training                         0.530          100?
Unallocated                         0.405
Total                         3.375
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Bank Group Fiscal Year              1992         1993       1994      1995
Annual                              0.64         1.04      1.00       0.70
Cumulative                          0.64         1.68      2.68       3.38



- 18 _
Schedule C
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Timetable for Key Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:             21 months
(b) Prepared by:                       GOV with assistance from UNDP, UNCM S
(Habitat) and ESCAP
(c) First IDA mission:                 August 1988
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       June 25, 1990
(e) Negotiationst                      May 2, 1991
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 1991
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARss  Not applicable



- 19 -
Sebedule 2
STATUS OE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VANUATU
A. STATENENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1991) /a
Amount (US$ million)
IDA
Credit  Fiscal                                       Original Principal   Undis-
nmber   Year   Borrower            Purpose           (less cancellation)  bursed
One credit fully disbursed                                      1.21
1666-VA 1987  Vanuatu   Multiproject                            2.00        0.84
1964-VA 1989  Vanuatu   Education                               8.00        7.99
Total                                                          11.21        8.83
of which has been repaid                                      0.00
Total now held by IDA                                          11.21
Amount sold         0.0
of which repaid 0.0
Total undisbursed                                                           8.83
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1991)
None
a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 20 -
Schedule E
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Basic Economic Indicators
Growth Rates       (Z per   annum)
1983-87        1988        1989 Est.
Gross Domestic Product                    1.9 la         0.6           4.5
Total Consumption                         3.1            2.9           3.0
Gross Domestic Investment                 6.5          -10.9          13.0
Exports                                  -2.7           -4.3           9.0
Imports                                   1.3           -4.3          11.5
Inflation (Consumer Price) Xc             8.8 /b         8.5          8.2
Population                                3.0 /!         2.8           2.5
-.a 1979-88.
lb 1979-87.
Ic Period average.



166~~~20 ~16021 i'q2'           67010'          16701 V             1670112'       167-1'12121
tRrVILA~~~~~POZ VILA    . 
011 5\//_fRE WATA   NOtfHM1                                                 -    - v lo1
"bl,h to "'4 be00e                                                                                                VW ro
/   -    t55'   ' ,"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5P2                                                                  -i4  ltwL-2,                              1
a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.   Swt H4rOUSINPRJC *sbt .,
'S./                  i
)P46'  b    f JW  174h'_ |   _   woJstws~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Wls
M    fI,    z     0l9. - ROADS ts .
VANUATU                                                                                   5
HOUSING PROJECT                                             wib to LocEp. is.
-PROJE-CT SITS
- .4 O1ROAS M                                                                                        Is.
__________ __________ ________9_                                                                                                            Pote VIo
f*^ , ' ' . Wf S F                                             RIRS                                                        -1. 
~/OO4N        W8SA4t,APTA
_~~~~~M                                                                                       >-'   I  J 5s.>~ld 0 
___                                                     ~~~~~~~~~VANUATU
MONMA  VM"TU                                ~~~~~~~~~~BUILT - UP AREAS
8*3                                                                                                     Port Vito Project Locatfions
m   ~ ~~SW CALWOOI4A                                                            0  20040605010  2010  6010 200                         -    Pads                     on S
<7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d *edo mod .mlosl  Whop &*rnot sWo. J  of       F 0 Th Y.hd                                                                                 ts. -o8h *
0~~~~~~~~~~~I8ZAA4 .*moCs~von _h __oo 8sodof oSm hoondodo dmos,mstr          Wh mopf doi                                                                  _
AUSTRALIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~s Wh psd ho8845hn sdIt *moom PmmCEmto,  "d.m
moSS  doSS Of WE ~  dotOmod S OetOpiOOW ofm.chho.~~soe



