Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I   )' t    PJ ; 'i t N t jOu{4 - iVA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
MAY 21, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officbal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 15, 1990)
Curren; Unit = Vatu (VT)
$1.00     =  VT 114
VT 100    =  $0.88
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -    Asian Development Bank
BESO         -    British Executive Services Overseas
BIV          -    Banque Indosuez Vanuatu
CDC          -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CTCF         -    Commonwealth Technical Corporation Fund
DBV          -    Development Bank of Vanuatu
DOL          -    Department of Lands
DP2          -    Second Development Plan
ESCAP        -    Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacifi
GOV          -    Government of Vanuatu
HRF          -    Housing Refinance Facility
MOFH         -    Ministry of Finance and Housing
MOL          -    Ministry of Lands
NHC          -    Vanuatu National Housing Corporation
NPSO         -    National Planning and Statistics Office
Pi           -    Participating Intermediary
PPU          -    Physical Planning Unit
PWD          -    Public Works Department
RBV          -    Reserve Bank of Vanuatu
SLR          -    Secure Lending Rate
UNCHS        -    United Nations Commission for Human Settlements
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Programme



VANUATU                    FOR Of'FICIAL USE ONLY
HOUSING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Vanuatu
Beneficiaries:        National Housing Corporation (NHC)
Participating commercial banks and institutions
Amount:               SDR 2.5 million ($3.375 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:      Part of the proceeds of the credit, equivalent to $1.1
million, will be onlent by the Government of Vanuatu
(GOV) through the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV), at the
Secure Lending Rate (SLR)--which is currently 9 percent--
to participating financial intermediaries (PIs) for
refinancing mortgage loans made to eligible purchasers of
serviced lots and houses. IDA refinancing will be for
terms matching those of PI mortgage loans to project
beneficiaries (10-20 years). PIs will relend these funds
to beneficiaries at variable market rates which currently
range between 12 and 14 percent. GOV will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives:  The objectives of the project are:  (a) increased
provision of affordable housing to middle and lower
income groups; (b) improved sector policies leading to
the development of a market-based housing development and
finance systerii; (c) a sound institutional framework for
the sector, including a strengthened NHC and active
participation by the private sector; (d) increased long-
term finance for housing for middle and lower income
groups from the pr4vate finance sector.
Project Description: The project would comprise:  (a) financing for affordable
land development undertaken by NHC and house construction
by individual lot purchasers for about 400 lower and
middle income households channelled through private
banks; (b) technical assistance, training and equipment
supporting improved systems and procedures for NHC;
(c) off-site water supply improvements; (d) relocation of
the Port Vila rubbish dump site and support for solid
waste management; and (e) technical assistance and
studies supporting policy formulation.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would launch a scheme whereby low- to middle-
income urban families will, for the first time, have
access to affordable home-ownership and commercial credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
for housing. Affordable serviced lots and houses,
provided to up to 400 middle and lower income households,
would meet about 20 percent of the estimated demand in
Port Vila and Luganville. The project would also support
the development of policies and standards leading to an
improved supply response and enhanced private sector
involvement; and private sources of funding for housing
would be mobilized. The main risks for the project are
that: (a) GOV will not sustain the political will to
back NHC in the application of appropriate development
standards; (b) private banks will not be willing to
continue to make loans to potential purchasers at
affordable rates; and (c) GOV will not permit banks to
foreclose on defaulting low income and civil service
project beneficiaries. These risks are mitigated by
(i) the increasing understanding and acceptance at senior
levels of government of the benefits of appropriate
standards; (ii) the design of the refinancing component
on the basis of the PI's own lending criteria; and
(iii) GOV's specific recognition of private bank lending
to project beneficiaries as a superior means of cost
recovery. A further mitigating factor is that a pilot
project has already tested the market and confirmed the
effective demand.
Estimated Project
Costs: /a
Local     Foreign      Total
--------- $ million --
A. Lot Development and House
Construction Loans                    1.16        1.04        2.20
B. NHC Institutional Strengthening         0.17        0.40        0.57
C. Off-site Water Supply                   0.02        0.06        0.08
D. Port Vila Landfill Site                 0.14        1.16        1.30
E. Policy Formulation                        -         0.13        0.13
Base Cost (June 1990)                1.49        2.79       4.29
Physical Contingencies                     0.07        0.14        0.21
Price Contingencies                        0.20        0.25        0.45
Total Project Cost lb                1.77        3.18        4.95
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
/b Includes about $0.1 million equivalent in duties.



- lli -
Financing Plan4
Local    Foreign    Total
--- S million -----
Government                                      0.12       -         0.12
Participating Intermediaries                    0.43       -         0.43
Project beneficiaries down payments             0.84       -         0.84
Government of Japan                              -        0.18       0.18
IDA                                             0.38      3.00       3.38
Total Financing                            1.77      3.18      4.95
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                    1992       1993       1994        1995
----------- $ million -------------
Annual                               0.64      1.04       1.00         0.70
Cumulative                           0.64      1.68       2.68         3.38
Economic Rate of Return:      19 percent
flap:                         IBRD No. 22432



- iv -
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
.able of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
A. Urban Growth ..............                        .1
B. Employment and Incomes . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .      1
C. Housing in the Economy ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. . ..   .  2
D. Housing in the Financial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . .       3
E. Housing Demand and Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
F. Key Sector Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
II.   SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE . . . . . . . . . . .       6
A. Government Strategy. .                                       6
B. Bank Group Experience ..                                     7
C. Benk Group Strategy        ..                                8
II. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS.                                              9
A. Vanuatu National Housing Corporation . . . . . . . . .       9
Legal Basis and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
Management and Organizational Structure  . . . . . . .       9
Operational Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
Institutional Performance and Development Plans  . . .      10
B. Ministry of Finance and Housing  . . . . . . . . . . .      11
C. Ministry of Home Affairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
D. Municipal Councils and Local Government Councils . . .      12
E. Ministry of .ands  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
F. Reserve Bank of Vanuatu  . . . . . . . . .  .        .      i3
G. Commercial Banks ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . ..  .  .   .  13
IV.   THEPROJECT..                                . . . .  . . .     14
A. Objectives and Description.        .            . . .       15
B. Project Cost, Financing and Onlending  . . . . . . . .      16
C. Implementation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  .   .  18
D. Procurement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
E. Disbursements ................... .                         20
F. Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .  21
is report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Vanuatu in
June/July 1990 comprising Heinz Unger (Mission leader), George Faillace
AF4IN), Hitoshi Aoki, Colin Franklin, Jim Kearns and Eric Peterson
_nsultants).  The report was endorsed by SOD Chief Mr. L. Jeurling and by CD
rector Mr. R. Cheetham. Peer reviewers were Mr. C. Godavitarne (municipal
engineering), Ms. A. Nassau (financial analysis), and Mr. B. Veuthey (planning
and institutional development).



Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
A. National Housing Corporation . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
A.   Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
B. Risks ....................... .                          27
C. Environmental Impact ................ .                  27
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
ANNEXES
1.  NHC Policy Statement
2.  NHC Hausing Scheme
3.  Project Cost Table
4.  Financing Plait
S.  NHC Training Component
6.  Implementation Schedule
7.  Disbursement Schedule
8.  NHC Financial Projections
9.  Financial Sector and Participating Banks
10.  HRF Guidelines for Housing Rediscount Facility
11.  Affordability Analysis
12.  Economic Analysis
13.  Supervision Plan
14.  Selected Documents in Project File
MAP    IBRD No. 22432.  Vanuatu Housing Project.



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Urban Growth
1.1       Vanuatu's population of 140,000 is distributed throughout 80 islands
spread over more than 200,OOC squa.e kilometers of the Pacific Ocean (see IBRD
Map No. 22432). Twenty-four thousand (17 percent) of the total population
live in one of the two municipalities (Port Vila, the capital, and
Luganville). Urbanization is a new phenomenon, as prior to 1960s urban
residence was limited primarily to expatriates (a statutory restriction in
effect before World War II). A shift from imported to indigenous (ni-Vanuatu)
labor 1/ in the 197(.s as well as more recent cyclone damage in rural areas
has brought about rapid growth in the two urban centers. After increasing at
an average rate of about 4 percent during the 'ate 1970s and early 1980s, Port
Vila's annual growth rate increased to 7 percent in 1986. At this rate, Port
Vila's estimated 1989 population of 17,000 will more than double to 36,000 by
the year 2000. National population growth during the same period was over
2.4 percent. Luganville's estimated 1989 population of 7,000 has been growing
at an average rate of about 5 percent. This rapid growth in the urban
population strained urban services, especially housing, where production has
not kept pace with demand. Currently over 25 percent of the urban population
is living in slums, tenements and squatter settlements lacking basic services.
Room rents in these areas for very poor makeshift shelter (without water or
electricity, and with shared pit latrine) often approach 50 percent of
household income. The housing shortage is a problem shared by all income
groups but is most acute for lower and m'ddle income households.
B. Employment and Incomes
1.2       Vanuatu's economy has a dual nature with a small, highly developed,
highly monetized and largely expatriate-controlled urba4 business sector and a
much larger, slightly monetized traditional sector which includes most of the
indigenous population. The former consists of retail trading, large
plantations, banking, shipping and tourism, while the latter is characterized
by subsistence farming and some smallholder copra and other cash crop
agriculture. About 83 percent of the active population lives in the rural
areas, with the bulk of employment in the agricultural sector. Based on the
1983-84 Agricultural Census, approximately 80 percent of the adult rural
population work on their own land, of which only 35 percent sell their output
(cash crops, fishing, and livestock production). The non-ni-Vanuatu work
force was 5.8 percent in 1979, on a declining trend. Urban employment is
dominated by the services sector (78 percent) including government, tourism,
transport and communications. Construction is a distant second with 8.5
percent. The non-r.i-Vanuatu urban labor force is concentrated in the
professional, technical, and managerial occupations. The female participation
rate in urban employment is 51 percent against 87 percent for males, with one-
third of employed females engaged as domestic workers. The economically
active ni-Vanuatu population grew at an average annual rate of 3.3 per cent
between 1967 and 1979, and labor force participation rates remained constant
at 85 per cent. Applying the same rates to projected populations in 1986 and
1/   ni-Vanuatu is the term for citizens of Vanuatu.



- 2 -
1991, the total labor force can be estimated for those years at 60,200 and
70,700 respectively.
1.3       The country has placed its hopes on the development of tourism, but
several external and internal factors led to a steady decline from 31,600
visitor arrivals in 1984 to 9,201 in 1987. Although recent data are not
available, tourism has increased again significantly during 1989 and 1990 with
annual arrivals estimated at 20,000 to 25,000. The importance of domestic
exports varies dramatically both in volume and value. Copra is the single
most valuable export commodity but income from copra fell from VT 2,734 m to
VT 719 m ($22.5 million to $6.3 million) in the period 1984-87, due to a drop
in both production and value. Cocoa production however increased in both
volume and value.
1.4       Only 25 percent of the urban workforce is in the formal sector
(government and private sector enterprises); there is a continuing drift of
population from the islands to urban areas searching for opportunities, and
this has been accompanied by unemployment, poor living conditions, and
unaccustomed social pressures. There is recent evidence of an increase in
social problems in towns, including non-support and abuse of children. While
the social system requires the migrant to return home if he is unable to find
employment, government is concerned that high expectations resulting from
wider secondary education will change the traditional pattern and lead to
still higher levels of urban unemployment.
1.5       Most recent offtcial estimates set per capita national income at
VT 77,980, and for ni-Vanuatu only at VT 46,435 ($384). Since the economy is
heavily dependent on foreign investment and the participation of expatriates,
the per capita income index does not adequately reflect the eccnomic welfare
of the citizens. There is a double duality in the Vanuatu income structure,
first between the two urban areas and the rest of the country which is rural
ar., accounts for 83 percent of the total population, and second within the
urban areas, where there is a wide divergence between ni-Vanuatu and
expatriate incomes. Urban per capita income is about ten times higher than
rural per capita income, and per capita income of expatriates (excluding
corporate income) is about 15 times higher than that of ni-Vanuatu. The
quality of life of the ni-Vanuatu is actually lower than the per capita income
figures will indicate. Social services are of relatively high cost and poor
quality, and infrastructure and community facilities in rural areas are
relatively undeveloped compared with other lower-income developing countries.
These problems are further aggravated by the dispersal of settlements on
numerous islands over large areas of oceanic waters.
1.6       Government has established the urban "low-income" threshold at VT
45,000 per saonth household income. This is estimated to be at about the 48th
percentile of the average urban income distribution, or the 40th percentile in
Port Vila, and the 65th in Luganville.
C. Housing in the Economy
1.7       The construction sector generated 4.7 percent of GDP in 1987, having
nearly doubled since 1985, and 8.5 percent of urban employment (1986). The
construction industry in Vanuatu is divided into ni-Vanuatu building firms
(usually partnerships or sole operators) who undertake maintenance or small



- 3 -
building contracts up to a maximum value of US$170,000 equivalent and
expatriate firms (usually incorporated bodies), which tend to undertake only
larger contracts greater than US$85,000 equivalent in value.
D. Housing in the Financial Sector
1.8       Variuatu has a relatively well-developed financial system--the most
developed among the South Pacific Island countries. The financial sector has
two distinct elements: the offshore financial center and the domestic
financial system. The domestic financial system comprises the Reserve Bank of
Vanuatu (RBV>, three commercial banks, one development bank, a public
commercial bank, a provident fund, a finance company, and a number of
insurance companies and credit unions. The offshore financial center is
important for local employment and government revenue, but its interaLtion
with the local economy is small--mainly through the service industries. Its
exempt offshore inctitutions (over 100 banks, financial institutions and
insurance companies) are precluded from conducting local business. However,
some limited center funds are deposited in foreigi, exchange in local banks and
im.prove the country's overall liquidity, but do not add to the availability of
dome tic funds for local investment. Within the overall financial system,
hou. ±ng finiance plays a relatively small role. Loans are available from the
country's three private commercial banks (para. 3.19), the National Housing
Corporation (NHC), and a few housing finance schemes. Some additional housing
finance is provided by commerciai banks through personal loans for building
material purchases and house extensions.
1.9       Loans for housing and land purchase comprise a fairly small
ercentage of commercial bank lending to Vanuatu residents:  typically around
to 7 percent of total loans. The VT 123 million worth of foreign
denominated housing loans outstanding at the end of 1988 accounted for
35 percent of housing loans and represented some 17.2 percent of foreign
urrency denominated loans to Vanuatu residents (see Table 1.1 below).
Table 1.1: COMMERCIAL BANK LENDING FOR HOUSING AND LAND 1985-1988,
BY YEAR (AS Z OF TOTAL)
in VT                 in Foreign Currency              Total Lending
'85   '86   '87   '88         '85   '86   '87   '88        '85   '86   '87   '88
.9   8.6   6.5   6.0        0.2   2.9   1.3  17.2         7.0   6.7   5.6   7.8
In terms of their 1988 housing finance, commercial banks extended 130 Vatu-
denominated mortgage loans totaling VT 228.3 million for the purchase of local
land or housing. Wtile ni-Vanuatu borrowers accounted for 72 or 55 percent of
these loans, their average amounts were much smaller (VT 1,043,125) than those
for expatriates (VT 2,686,877): this reflects the generally major difference
in salary levels and hence debt servicing abilities between the two groups.
Thus ni-Vanuatu lending accounted for only 33 percent of the amount lent for
housing (see Table 1.2). However, some of the 1,072 personal loans made to



ni-Vanuatu outstanding at the end of 1988 may also have been used for
purchasing building materials for home repairs or construction.
Table 1.2: COMMERCIAL BANK ADVANCES FOR HOUSING AND LAND - 1988
ni-Vanuatu                       Expatriates                      Total
No. of        Amount              No. of      Amount            No. of      Amount
lofans        '000 Vt             loans       '000 Vt           loans       '000 Vt
(Z)              (Z)              (Z)          (Z)             (X)            (2)
72          75,105               57        153,152           130        228,274
(55)             (33)            (45)            (65)        (100)          (100)
Source:   Central Bank of Vanuatu, Quarterly Economic Bulletin, 3.2/88.
1.10      Constraints in the commercial banking sector:  Vatu deposits from
non-government residents account fer only 24 percent of total commercial bank
liabilities. This lack of vatu makes it difficult for the banks to fund local
lending. Foreign exchange from offshore activities is not converted to vatu
for local lending. While residents may borrow in foreign exchange, the
repayment obligation is also in foreign exchange and only those residents
engaged in activities generating foreign exchange can borrow in this manner.
When considering housing finance, the banks have even more difficulty as their
vatu deposit liabilities are very short term with savings and fixed deposits
represer.ting about 55 percent of vatu deposits, with virtually no,ne longer
than one yeat. This shortage of longer-term funds makes it difficult for the
banks to expand their housing lending on other than a short-term basis (most
mortgage loans are for a maximum of 5 years).
1.11      The local private banks have expressed interest in a system that
could be operated through the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (REV) or the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) whereby the banks will be given access to 15- to 20-year local
currency funding. Approved lenders could refinance a major portion of loans
granted for housing purposes, and the lender will still hold 100 percent of
the associated risk. It has also been suggested that banks might attract
longer-term funds by introducing a home deposit target savings plan, ideally
through payroll deduction. As of August, 1989, the Cooperative Savings Bank
(currently being restructured as the Commerce Savings Bank), with the
cooperation of the NHC, has started such a plan, and there is strong interest
in similar products by other banks. Other means of inducing the commercial
banks to become more active in housing finance for lower-income groups have
been proposed, such as permitting the use oi part of the Statutory Reserve
Deposit for mortgage lending by commercial banks.
E. Housing Demand and Supply
1.12      Current population data indicate an increase in Port Vila of about
1200 persons per year. Assuming the same rate for Luganville, its population
is increasing at about 480 persons per year. Conservatively estimating
average household size at four persons, Port Vila will require about 300 new



housing units per year, and Luganville 120, not covering backlog. The private
sector currently produces luxury expatriate housing, some high-standard
apartments for local residents, and some low-standard rental tenements.
Projecting current activity, the formal sector can be expe=ted to produce
about 30 units per year in Port Vila, and about six units in Luganville.
Combined, the NHC's new program and the existing formal housing producers will
still provide less than the projected new units required over the next four
years without even addressing the existing backlog of inadequately housed
families.
1.13      During project preparation, NHC systematically visited a total of 23
existing low-income neighborhoods in Port Vila and five in Luganville. The
visits were documented, and all sites consisted of predominantly makeshift
housing sheltering a working population representative of the expected project
beneficiaries. The NHC has found that for the most part, these families a,e
eager and able to become owners if appropriate standards are applied and
financing is aveilable. Small lot sizes (260 m2) and incremental housing
solutions were discussed thoroughly. The first NHC units built in the Fres
Wata Section of Port Vila--prior to the start of preparation for the current
project--have demonstrated that families with incomes around the Port Vila
median cannot pay the VT 15,000 to VT 20,000 per month required for a house of
relatively high standard. With the more modest lots and structures proposed
by the NHC in the new program, monthly mortgage payments as low as VT 3,600
are possible. These units will be affordable to families between the 10th and
15th income percentiles who are now forced to pay up to twice that amount in
rent. Serviced lots will be available for around VT 2,400 per month. With a
leasing/saving scheme which is proposed by NHL, families with very small
savings can occupy i lot for as l:ttle as VT 2,000 per month, while saving for
a downpayment. Recently collected NHC applications (300) indicate a
concentration of incomes between VT 10,000 and 30,000 per month (Sth to 25th
income percentiles in Port Vila). Based on current population data, the
roughly 2,100 people inhabiting the Port Vila squatter sites researched during
project preparation represented 12 percent of the city's population, or about
1.5 times the annual increase seen in Port Vila in a recent year. The 460
persons in the five Luganville (on Espiritu Santo Island) sites represent
about 7 percent of that city's population, or approximately one year's
population increase.
F. Key Sector Issues
1.14      Vanuatu gained independence relatively recently, in 1980.  This,
together with its small size and early stage of econsic development,
underlies the major issues in the housing sector:
(a)  Limited availability of mortgage finance.  Lending for housing, by
private banks has been constrained by (i) lack of affordable plots
and housing for the bulk of the urban population; (ii) lack of long-
term deposits to match mortgage loans; and (iii) lack of experience
in lending to middle and lower income groups;
(b)  Lack of policy framework and appropriate standards.  GOV does not
have explicit housing and urbanization policies (especially for
ensuring a stable supply of land for urban growth); public and
private sector roles are not clearly defined; and planning,



- 6 -
construction and land development standards although recently
modified, require further evolution based on affordability
considerations.
(c. Weak sector institution. The recently established NHC which is
responsible for land development, is small and still lacks the
expertise necessary to supply an adequate quantity of serviced land
for housing construction.
1.15      Land acquisition, management and tenure arrangements (including
foreclosure on mortgage security) are adequate in the two cities, but not
outside municipal boundaries, where land must be acquired directly from
customary owners and enforcement of lease terms is problematic. Land itself
is not the major issue for urban development and housing in the short to
medium term, but new approaches to mobilizing customary land must be put in
place to ensure orderly urban growth over the longer term. Improving the
capabilities of the municipal authorities will need to be addressed in
subsequent phases to strengthen the basis for sustainable urban management.
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Government Strategy
2.1       GOV has not yet developed a coherent strategy for the housing
sector, housing having only recently been specifically assigned to a ministry.
Nonetheless, sector strategy is beginning to evolve from GOV efforts to cope
with the rapidly increasing urban population and housing demand and with a
housing market which has not responded to this demand, particularly that of
lower income households. GOV action began with the setting out of the main
objectives for the housing sector in its Second Development Plan (DP2) of
1987-91:
(a)  availability of acceptable housing for the urban population;
(b)  reduction of overcrowded housing and squatting;
(c)  legislation of appropriate standards for housing; and
(d)  increased supply and range of housing options available for
purchase.
Although these objectives respond to the need for developing housing delivery
systems capable of servicing all income groups, they lack explicit policy
content and do not address the two major problems of finance and land for
urban development over the long term.
2.2       While recognizing the importance of the private sector, GOV was
unsure as to how to induce private sector activity in lower income housing. A
public sector agency, the NHC, was therefore established. In 1988-89, NHC
developed a 43-unit pi)ot housing project with UK and DBV financiug based on
high standards which limited its affordability to middle income households and
would have entailed heavy subsidies if allocated to the intended lower-income
families.



2.3       In 1988, GOV approached the Bank Group for financing of a 500 unit
project based on the pilot project. After initial discussions with the Bank
Group, GOV agreed that the project needed reformulation, which was
accomplished based on revised standards, with UNDP/UNCHS assistance. There is
general appreciation within GOV of the role played by appropriate standards.
Through initiatives taken by the Physical Planning Advisor, the key item, a
minimum plot size reduced from 1,000 to 260 n2, was accepted prior to Bank
Group involvement. For the longer term, however, the effort to develop
appropriate standards and to liberalize official attitudes towards standards
with an eye to serving the needs of a broad range of citizens needs to
continue. Project support for policy formulation will assist this effort.
B. Bank Group Experience
2.4       IDA project experience in Vanuatu has been mostly with co-financed,
ADB-led projects in the agriculture, energy, transportation, and
telecommunications sectors. Only the Primary and Secondary Education Project
(Cr. 1964-VA approved November 1988) is led by IDA. Four multi-laterally
financed projects were appraised between 1983 and 1988, and an energy sector
study was completed in 1985. There are as yet no Project Performance Audit
Reports for any projects in Vanuatu.
2.5       The proposed housing project uses the accumulated experience in Bank
Group lending for urbanization and housing in the region and World-wide. The
project involves (a) limiting the public sector to what the private sector
cannot do without great difficulty in Vanuatu--acquire and develop land and
utilize the private sector for other development activities, including
contractors for civil works in land development and for house construction;
(b) providing market rate mortgage finance through private commercial banks;
(c) limiting IDA financing to refinancing of mortgage loans with the public
sector developer (NHC) raising development finance locally; (d) limiting NHC
to the development and marketing of serviced lots with decisions on house
choice and construction left to lot purchasers; and (e) using appropriate and
affordable designs and standards, pricing with full cost recovery, and presale
of lots in land development. All these elements contained in the project have
been tested elsewhere, but the project is nonetheless innovative because there
has been no Bank Group project elsewhere in the world combining these elements
in a single project. However, this approach has been used in preparing the
housing projects in Fiji and Papua New Guinea which have many similar
characteristics to Vanuatu, and the project is in fact part of the evolving
regional approach to housing sector development in the Pacific. While the
Fiji and Papua New Guinea proiects have not commenced implementation, as
indicated above, individual elements of the approach have been tested in other
projects.
2.6       The limitation of the role of the public sector and expansion of the
role of the private sector in housing development has been tested in many
projects, including the Indonesian housing sector loan (HSLl--Loan No.
2725-IND). The provision of market rate financing is being tested in the
India Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC). Although the Bank Group
loan has only recently begun implementation, HDFC, a private mortgage finance
institution, has been making long-term mortgage loans to low- and middle-
income households for many years. The use of commercial banks in this role



- 8 -
was at least partially tested in projects in Chile and in Mexico. Limiting of
Bank Group financing to refinancing of mortgage loans without direct financing
of land and housing development has been successfully tested in Indonesia
under HSL1.  Limiting the developer to servicing lots with beneficiaries
responsible for house construction decisions was successfully used by the Fiji
Housing Authority for several years prior to the preparation of the bank
Group-financed Housing Project. The use of appropriate and affordable design
and construction standards has been successfully tested in many urban
projects, including the Indonesia Third and Fourth Urban Projects. Presale of
lots to project beneficiaries before development has been successfully
practiced by public and private sector developers in HSL1.
2.7       A Project Performance Atudit Rpport (PPAR No. 6329) was completed in
1986 for the Indonesia Second Urban Development Loan, and is the first Bank
Group PPAR in the urban sector. In addition to a significant difference in
breadth and scale, the Indonesia projects were refined by earlier project
experience and implemented by institutions with considerable experience.  The
PPAR ascribes the efficiency of these institutions to the benefits of past
experience. Evaluation conclusions generally support the approach taken in
Vanuatu: full cost recovery, no subsidies, appropriate standards based on
benieficiary affordability, institutional development and strengthening,
mortgage finance development, and recognition of the need for flexibility to
accommodate those who cannot improve on-plot superstructure development
qjuickly.
0. Bank Group Strategy
2.8       The underlying conceptual formulation of the housing project is
based on experience with housing projects in a number of other countries. It
follows the approach endorsed by the Bank Group in developing a regional
approach to housing sector development for the South Pacific. This approach
mainly aims at stimulating the development of market forces and revising
standards to produce serviced residential land and housing which is
appropriate to local economic and social conditions.
2.9       Elimination of constraints on the land and housing markets and the
financial sector that cause the shortage of housing, will take perhaps up to
10 years. Likewise, institutional and policy development will require
sustainied efforts over a long period. The Bank Group's strategy for
development of the housing and urban sectors therefore takes a long view. The
first effort in the sector will be limited to focusing on establishing a
policy framework, introducing affordable housing products, strengthening NHC
as a main public sector institution and increasing its capacity to operate in
a market-based environment, and assisting the financial sector to undertake
term transformation appropriate to housing finance by relieving the shortage
of long-term funds. The Bank Group's involvement is justified by the
opportunity to contribute to the emerging strategy formulation, by its support
of policy, financial, and institutional development and by its ability to
provide longer-term financing as the basis for a sustainable housing program.
This initiative will draw in other donors who will support and broaden this
intervention by addressing other issues such as land management, especially
the mobilization of custom land to accommodate urban growth, and municipal
operations, and could eventually draw in long-term financing from local
sources such as the NPF. Because of the limited experience of all



- 9 -
institutions involved, a guiding principle will be to keep to a modest degree
of scale and complexity. Subject to successful implementation, GOV may wish
to request further donor assistance for continued, broadened funding of
housing investments and related urban development interventions, focussing on
url)an infrastructure development, operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and general municipal management at the local government level.
III. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
A. Vanuatu National Housing Corporation
Legal Basis and Objectives
3.1       The Vanuatu National Housing Corporation (NHC) is a statutory body
of the Government of Vanuatu responsible to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and
Hotel Development (MOLH). It was established by the National Housing
Corporation Act (No. 37 of 1985) "to provide houses and ancillary buildings
for sale or for leasing in accordance with programs approved by the Minister".
The initial task of the NHC, according to the Act, is to "build low cost
houses for sale to persons of modest incomesn. The NHC General Manager and
Board were appointed in 1986 when NHC started effective operations.
Management and Organizational Structure
3.2       NHC is currently very small and reasonably efficient.  The General
Manager reports to a seven-person Board appointed by the Minister. During its
firsL two years the NHC's professional staff consisted of a civil engineer and
an accountant (both provided through Australian Volunteers Abroad), and one
clerk-typist. A second clerk-typist was hired in mid-1989, and the first
clerk was trained and promoted to bookkeeper and is presently training to
become the manager of accounting for the NHC. The initial group of expatriate
volunteers were replaced in early 1990. NHC now has three expatriate
professional volunteers: a Technical Manager, a Field Supervisor and an
Accounting and Finance Manager, provided by New Zealand, British and
Australian volunteer services. A fourth expatriate provided by the
Commonwealth Technical Cooperation Fund (CTCF) arrived in October 1990 and
serves as advisor to NHC's General Manager. NHC has added two ni-Vanuatu
staff, one to carry out sales and collections and the other to work on
technical matters with the Field Supervisor, and a third new staff person is
under recruitment to work on sales and collections. A computerized accounting
system appropriate for the initial stage of NHC's development is now in place.
Operational Performance
3.3        As a relatively new organization, the NHC's experience has been
limited but useful in determining needs for future operations. UK-ODA
provitled seed capital and limited technical assistance to launch operations in
1987. By August 1989, NHC had developed a 43-unit pilot housing project using
local contractors for civil works and house construction. The project
consists of 600 m2 lots serviced with roads, municipal water, and individual
septic svstems, and including either a finished 60 m2 house or 60 m2 shell for
self-help completion. Originally targeted for low-income families, the large
lots, as well as house size and finish, and the limited shelter options, have



- 10 -
restricted the affordability of these houses to middle  .ncome households,
i.e., roughly the 50-80 income percentiles of ni-Vanuatu in Port Vila.
3 4       The initial pilot project proved difficult to sell but by easing
down-payment requirements NHC has now sold all of these units, with NHC
holdinig the mortgages, which were worth approximately VT 48 million at the end
of 1989. Due to errors in mortgage documentation and collection inexperience,
NHC encountered collection difficulties on these mortgages. By July 1990,
however, appropriate documentation had been secured for all mortgages and
collections of currently due receivables had reached a satisfactory level.
Action is underway to deal with the arrears that accumulated during the
initial years of the scheme. The experience gained iat this first scheme has
helped to define current weaknesses in the institutional framework and has
underlined the need to clarify objectives for the future.
3.5       In addition to its initial capitalization of VT 70 million, NHC
boLLt)wed VT 40 million from the DBV to finance the pilot project mentioned
above. Early in 1990 NHC negotiated a VT 50 million loan from the Vanuatu
National Provident Fund to finance the development (and mortgage sale where
required) of the initial production of about 40 affordable standard sites in
FLes Wata South later in 1990.  This development is seen as a pilot project
for the proposed IDA-funded project. The Corporation has also negotiated a
long-terni loan from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)--VT 64
million--to finance the construction of high-quality homes (initially seven)
for rental to expatriates, an activity which is outside the scope of the
proposed IDA-financed project.
Institutional Performance and Development Plans
3.6       The NHC initially operated under difficult circumstances:  lack of
clear policies and plans to guide it, staffing gaps, undeveloped
administrative procedures, and crowded office space.  During 1989, periodic
support in project preparation was provided to NHC by UNDP/UNCHS, British
Executive Services Overseas (BESO), and Economic and Social Commission for
Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). This support has had the effect of exposing NHC
illanagement and staff to the concepts and techniques of matching design with
affordability and sound financial management with full cost recovery.  In
addition to the initial BESO support, the support provided by several other
volunteer agencies has been invaluable. The Bank Group also provided extra
staff and consultant resources to help prepare this project and conceive the
institui ional arrangements necessary to develop a sustainable low-income
housing delivery scheme in Vanuatu.
3.7       Satisfactory institutional arrangements for this project have been
put in place.  An NHC Policy Statement has been adopted by the Board with the
approval of the Minister for Finance and Housing (See Annex 1). The basic
principles of the NHC Policy Statement are satisfactory to the Association,
and assurances were obtained during negotiations that the policy statement
will not be amended without prior consultation with the Association.
Realistic sales, production and financial plans have been: developed, and
methodology and technology to keep plans up-to-date have been installed.  All
site design, construction and legal services required by NHC will be provided
by the private sector; NHC has sufficient capacity to manage these processes.
NHC has adopted pre-selling as its standard development practice by offering



- 11 -
reasonably small packages of lots for sale before beginning construction.
This approach will maximize the learning and adjustment process for this still
fledgling institution while reducing financial risk. (See Annex 2 on the NHC
Housing Scheme.)
3.8       Office space has been doubled and plans are underway to add
additional space. Air conditioning to provide a suitable computing
environment, additional computing hardware and software, and related equipment
will be provided under the proposed credit. Staffing is satisfactory in both
qualitative and quantitative terms at current stage of development. However
there is an acute shortage of skilled local staff in Vanuatu which is
compensated for by the large number of expatriates working in key positions in
many agencies in the countiy. A schit?me tol hell) attract local staff for the
longer term is needed which should involve training additional ni-Vanuatu
staff.
B. Ministry Of Finance
3.9       Housing had only recently been assigned specifically to a ministry,
when in 1988 the Ministry of Finance became the Ministry of Finance and
Housing (in November 1990 the responsibility for housing was transferred from
MOF to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Hotel Development). MOF is
administered by a Permanent Secretary who reports to the Minister, and who
serves still as Chairman of the Board of the NHC. MOFH does not have the
staff or other resources to initiate action on housing policy issues, but its
top officials had been quick to grasp the issues involved in market-based
housing provision for a wide range of incomes. They have maintained a very
active interest in the operations of the NHC and have pro ided decisive
sup)ort during project preparation. MOF is responsible for overseeing the
artivities of the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu.
C. Ministry of Lands, Housing and Hotel Development
3.10      Upon Independence in 1980, the new Constitution abolished the
freehold and leasehold system put in place by the colonial Condominium
administrators and decreed that all lard belonged to the indigenous custom
owners and their descendants. Freehold titles were to be replaced by long-
terni leaseholds. The institutionalization of this policy took the form of
developing lease procedures and regulations which are implemented by the
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Hotel Development, Department of Lands (DOL).
The lease stipulates the intended type of development or use. In the case of
municipal lands, the DOL, as lessee, acts for the Minister of Lands who is
collecting lease payments to be held in trust by the Government for the custom
land owners pending resolution of ownership questions. The DOL took on the
role of urban land manager in Port Vila and Luganville following the
unsuccessful attempt to manage urban land leasing through parastatal urban
land corporations in Vila and Luganville (VULCAN and LULCAN) and their
dissolution in 1988; the head lease on urban land reverted to GOV.
3.11      The Physical Planning Unit in the Ministry of Home Affairs has
proposed that the DOL not be allowed to issue leases until planning approval
for the land in question has been granted. So far, DOL has resisted this
idea. Only the Director of Land Surveys, under the DOL, alone may make the
surveys required for lease purposes, following regulations issued by the



- 12 -
Minister of Lands which establish certain rudimentary physical planning
criteria, including minimum road widths, frontages, and lot areas, as well as
certain physical criteria for reclaimed land. These guidelines are the only
planning criteria set by the national government. Their effect on physical
planning is indirect, and while limited (they do not control density of
development) they have some effect as town planning regulations.
3.12      Since November 1990 responsibility for NHC and housing in general
has been assigned to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Hotel Development.
This shift appears to recognize the close links between land mobilization and
housing development, and no significant changes in GOV's approach to housing
sector development are anticipated.
D. Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV)
3.13      The RBV is gradually assuming most traditional central bank
functions within the country, including currency issue, check clearing, banker
to the Government, manager of international reserves, monetary policy and
lender of last resort. Prior to 1988, the RBV relied on informal guidelines
to regulate the banking. sector and guide monetary policy, but this became
difficult to implement, and in early 1989, the RBV delinked the Vatu from the
SDR and set a new linkage with a basket of undisclosed trading currencies; at
the same cime RBV begnn to introduce regulations to the banking system,
including a 10 percent (of deposits) statutory non-interest bearing reserve
requirement. Other controls in force include a ceiling on commercial banks
average lending rates and directives which give priority to the productive
sectors, tourism and export promotion or import substitution, but these
controls are not enforced and domestic interest rates reflect international
rates. However, interest rates on Vatu deposits are still low, limiting the
amount of Vatu deposits and thereby Vatu lending. While the RBV is developing
monetary policy tools, its supervision role and prudential regulations are
still evolving. The locally established commercial banks operate in the
country with little regulation and supervision by RBV. RBV is aware of this
and is moving in the direction of greater supervision of the banking system.
E. Ministry of Home Affairs
3.14      The Ministry of Home Affairs has urban development responsibilities
through its oversight authority over Municipal Councils and Local Government
Councils, and it has responsibility for implementing the Physical Planning
Act. While the Municipal Councils and Local Government Councils are
responsible for drafting Physical Plans (statutory land use and development
documents), the Minister of Home Affairs has considerable authority in their
implementation, including the final say in appeals against Council rulings on
permits, and the designation of exclusions from the definition of
"development". The latter can exempt a project from requirements imposed by
the Physical Plan.
3.15      The Physical Planning Unit (PPU) is an advisory office reporting to
the Minister of Home Affairs. It is headed by the Physical Planning Advisor,
currently an expatriate planner. In 1989 the Minister appointed the Planning
Advisor as member of the Municipal Councils' planning committees, under the
Minister's authority to appoint two members to such committees. In this
capacity, the advisor may review development applications submitted to the



- 13 -
Councils and advise them. Because the Councils lack technical expertise, the
advisor's views have considerable weight at both the plan approval and policy
levels, making the advisor often the determining force on the planning
committees.
F. Municipal Councils and Local Government Councils
3.16      There are two municipalities, Port Vila and Luganville, and 11 Local
Government Councils. The Municipal Councils are popularly elected bodies,
with authority under the Physical Planning Act of 1986 to declare any area in
their jurisdiction a Physical Planning Area, i.e., an area where development
is controlled by a Physical Plan drafted by the Council. Upon application the
Councils grant their permission for development within a declared area, with
the Minister of Home Affairs retaining the power to hear appeals against the
Councils.
3.17      'he Councils are not at present staffed or equipped to handle the
technical burdens of developing plans and regulating development, and the
absence of a national planning and urbanization policy to guide local planning
and regulation exacerbates the problem. In the case of Port Vila, confusion
about the Physical Plan's authority has prevented its application, and the
practice of the Council is either to follow the pre-Independence bylaws or to
defer to advice from the PPU. The PPU, the role of which is limited to
advising the Minister of Home Affairs, is considering initiatives to improve
the current institutional framework through a strengthening of the central
government's role involving a new Central Planning Board to set and coordinate
National Physical Planning Policy. Other proposals include a revision of the
Planning Act, as well as revision of the Port Vila Physical Plan.
G. Commercial Banks
3.18      The commercial banks are Vanuatu's largest and oldest financial
institutions, providing a full range of traditional commercial banking
services. There are three institutions active in Vanuatu: the ANZ Bank
(Vanuatu) Limited, Banque Indosuez Vanuatu (BIV), and the Westpac Banking
Corporation. ANZ, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ANZ Bank, and Westpac, a
branch operation, are supervised by their regional headquarters in Suva, Fiji.
The Banque Indosuez Vanuatu is 80 percent owned by the Paris based, Banque
Indosuez Group and is supervised from the Paris Head Office; the Vanuatu
government owns the remaining 20 percent of BIV. In recent years there has
been a marked degree of rationalization within the industry, with two other
banks having ceased operations.
3.19      Commercial banks are active in both the domestic and offshore (non-
resident) markets, and have about 76 percent of their total assets in foreign
currencies. Conmercial bank lending during 1985-89 was concentrated in
commercial loans (22 percent) followed by personal loans (15 percent). Real
estate lending represented only about 7 percent of the total, but there were
significant differences between banks. Lending interest rates for each
category can vary between 8 and 17 percent, but have remained constant for the
past three years. Housing oans (mortgages) tend to carry interest rates
between 14 and 16 percent with maturities generally between 5 and 10 years.



- 14 -
3.20      Deposits are primarily denominated in foreign currency.  Given that
the Vatu deposit interest rate is somewhat less attractive than the foreign
deposit rates, and given the free convertibility of the currency, the amount
of Vatu deposits is limited.   Due to this shortage of Vatu funds in the
financial system and the short-term nature of the deposits, Vatu funds are
largely unavailable for lending on a long-term basis for mortgages or other
term lending. The reason for the low deposit rates appears to be connected
ith the rather high spreads demanded by banks (9 to 10 percent).  The
proposPd Housing Refinance Facility (HRF) is expected to alleviate this
shortage of Vatu funds for mortgage financing, by providing increased
competition for Vatu funds and thereby raising interest rates for Vati term
deposits.
3.21      Participation in the HRF is open to commercial banks and to other
financial institutions satisfactory to GOV and to IDA and subject to the
eligibility criteria set out in Annex 10. The three commercial banks have
expressed strong interest and willingness in participating in the scheme and
have been cleared by RBV, GOV and IDA to operate the HRF.
3.22      Annex 9 provides details on the overall commercial banking system in
Vanuatu and some specific information on the three individual banks.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.1       Faced with a growing housing problem in its two cities and the
unsatisfactory outcome of a traditional high standard housing project, GOV
requested IDA assistance for a housing project which will address the needs of
the lower end of the urban household income distribution. The Bank Group
aided GOV in securing project preparation assistance from UNDP, UNCHS and
ESCAP. The volunteer services of the UK (BESO) and Australian Volunteers
Abroad (AVA) also contributed to the preparation of the project.
4.2       In keeping with the Bank Group's sector strategy (para. 2.9), the
project will be simple and focussed. Although sufficient raw land has been
secured and planning work completed for the development of up to 1,000 lots,
and there is a market for a larger project, the present project has been
limited to a first phase of providing mortgagee for about 400 units over a 4-
year period.
A. Objectives and Description
Objectives
4.3       The objectives of the project are:
(a)  increased provision of affordable housing to middle and lower income
groups.
(b)  improved sector policies leading to the development of a self-
sustaining, market-based housing development and finance system
meeting the needs of a broad range of incomes;



- 15 -
(c) sound institutional framework for the sector, including a
strengthened NHC and active participation by the private sector;
(d) increased long-term finance for housing for middle and lower income
groups from the private financial sector.
Project Description
.4       Project components will comprise:
(a) Housing Finance through Housing Refinance Facility (HRF)
Long-term serviced lot and structure mortgage financing for about
400 lower and middle income households channelled through private
banks:
(i)  land development - serviced lots of minimum 260 m2 each for up
to 400 lower and middle income households will be developed by
NHC on two sites, one each in Port Vila and Luganville.
Infrastructure will include piped municipal water supply,
8-12 m-wide gravel roads with drainage, and on-site sanitary
systems (about 80 percent septic tank with soakaway and 20
percent VIP latrines, depending on client preference and
affordability). Electricity supply is not included due to the
very high capital cost of installation.
(ii) house construction - includes the weighted average cost of
about 250 houses of several types projected to require
commercial bank financing during the four years of project
implementation, the remaining lot purchasers are expected to
construct a temporary shelter for which financing will not be
required and the cost of which is not included in the project.
(See Annex 2 for detailed description of the NHC Housing
Scheme).
(b) Institutional Strengthening of NHC
In addition to volunteer professional staff, provision will be made
for short-term specialist technical assistance for (i) planning and
engineering design for development sites, and (ii) development of
internal NHC systems and procedures. Funding will also be provided
for the training of regular NHC staff, and for an innovative scheme
to attract, train and retain young professional and subprofessional
ni-Vanuatu staff. The training program prepared for this purpose
was reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory (see Annex 5).
There will also be provision for a new office building, a vehicle,
EDP equipment and software suitable for NHC's longer-term accounting
and financial management.
(c) Off-site Water Supply Improvements
Relatively small off-site improvements to the existing water supply
facilities and network in Port Vila and Luganville to ensure



- 16 -
adequate supply of water to the new NHC lots (main extensions and
replacements).
(d) Dump Relocation and Management
Relocation of the Port Vila rubbish dump site and support for sound
solid waste management. Project financing will be provided for
(i) closing and reclamation of the existing dump (located on the new
land development site) and development of a new land-fill site,
(ii) heavy plant and vehicles to operate the new site, and
(iii) operational assistance and training to ensure proper
management of the new landfill.
(e) Housing and Urban Development Policy Formulation
Provision will be made for expert assistance in the drafting of
operationally oriented policies for housing and urban development
including physical planning for Port Vila, appropriate standards for
urban housing, the finiancing and operation of urban services
(including solid waste management and sanitation) and (custom) land
acquisition and land tenure. Assistance will include one full-time
coordinator/policy expert, short-term specialist assistance, and
studies in support of policy formulation.
B. Project Cost, Financing and Onlending
Project Cost
4.5       Total project costs are estimated at $4.95 million equivalent as
summarized below. Base costs have been estimated as of November 1990 and are
based on detailed design and recent contractor proposals and quotations for
similar work. The direct and indirect foreign exchan.ge cost is estimated at
64 percent of total project cost. Land cost, at $91,500 equivalent,
represents about 2 percent of total project costs, or 10 percent of individual
lot cost. Import duties and fees are estimated to be about 2 percent of total
project cost.2/ Price contingencies are based on projected domestic price
inflation of 6 percent for 1990 and 5.5 percent for subsequent years and
foreign exchange inflation of 3.6 percent annually. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 10 percent of civil works. See Annex 3 for detailed
cost table.
2/   There are no individual and corporate income taxes, capital gains tax, or
estate and gift duties in Vanuatu.



- 17 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Total (Va.9tu 000)     Total fS '0001     X of Total
Component                       Loce   For- in  Total  Local Foreign Total  oc    Fore gn
ot Dev.L! A House Constr. Loans  131,826 118,166 249,980 1,156   1,086 2,193  58    47
stitutional strengthening - NHC   19,697  45,781  66,428   178    401   674  80    70
f-site water system improvsents   2,280   6,840   9,120    20   60    80  25    75
rt Vita landfill site         16,670 132,180 148,860   140   1,159 1,806  11    89
licy formulation
Total Base Cost              170.47  818.306 488.778 1.496   2.792 4.288  85   6a
yalcal contingencies           8,832  16,728  24,060    73    18   211  36    65
lce contingencies             28,174  28,217  61,891   208    248   461  46    66
Total Projoct Cost           201.97  882.261 604.28  1.772   8.1 8 4.949  98    e4
Le Includes land at VT 10.44 million (891,600).
Financing Plan
4.6        The project will be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 2.5 million
(about $3.375 million equivalent) which will finance 50 percent of the land
development and home construction costs, 90 percent of off-site civil works,
and 100 percent of imported equipment and vehicles, technical assistance and
training. About $0.2 million equivalent is being cofinanced by the Japanese
Grant Facility which will be administered by IDA. Individual beneficiaries
will provide 33 percent downpayments for land development and home
construction. Commercial banks as financial intermediaries will contribute 17
percent of total lot and house sales value from their own funds for mortgages
to financ- lot purchase and home consti-uction (25 percent of total mortgage
value); GOV will finance 10 percent of off-site civil works. NHC has been
arranging their own interim financing from the National Provident Fund for the
land development. Overall, the proposed IDA credit will finance approximately
68 percent of total project cost, Japan about 4 percent and the balance will
be provided from domestic sources. Annex 4 shows the detailed financing plan.
Onlending Terms
4.7       About 45 percent of the IDA funds will be onlent through the HRF and
will provide 75 percent of the commercial banks' mortgage financing. The
or.lending interest rate from Government through the HRF to the banks and from
the banks to NHC clients will be market-based and variable to ensure that they
reflect current market conditions.  IDA financing will be provided to
Government on standard IDA terms (0.75 percent service charge, 40-year
maturity with 10 years grace). Government will pass IDA funds to the HRF at
the RBV's secure lending rate (SLR) 3/ minus 0.5 percent for the full IDA
maturity to permit the HRF to build up funds during the period of repayment of
refinanced loans by the commercial banks and facilitate continued operation of
3/   The SLR is in fact the discount rate, a market-determined rate set by
RBV.



- 18 -
the HRF with possible broadening to cover non NHC-supplied lots as well.  HRF,
administered by RBV, will onlend to the Mls at the SLR (currently 9 percent),
and the banks will add an appropriate spread for lending to clients. The PIs
will makce loans to project beneficiaries for terms of 10 to 20 years for
67 percent of the cost of the plot or house at variable market interest rates,
wlhich currently range from 12 percent to 14 percent. Loans which qualify
according to the HRF Guidelines (see Annex 10) will be refinanced at matching
terms fronm the HRF at 75 percent of the mortgage loan amount at a market-based
interest rate. Participation Agreements satisfactory to IDA will be signed
betweeni GOV and participating banks to spell out these terms. A draft
Participation Agreement has been prepared by GOV, was reviewed and commented
upon by the PIs, and is acceptable to IDA.  Signing of at least one such
Participation Agreement will be a condition for the effectiveness of the
proposed credit.
C. Implementation
4.8       The project will cover the first four years of NHC's land
development program and will be completed by December 31, 1994. NHC will be
the main project implementing agency, having primary responsibility for the
land development and institutional strengthening components. The project will
rely on the commercial banks for mortgage finance and on NHC's clients for
house construction. NHC will be responsible for all aspects of land
development, from site planning through the marketing of the serviced lots.
NHC will be responsible for implementing the institutional strengthening
component and will engage technical assistance and procure the office
building, vehicles and equipment.
4.9       NHC will take on the responsibility for financing the sale of lots
only to the extent that it engages in the short-term leasing of lots to those
of its clients who need a period of saving for downpayment. Funds for the
lease scheme will be raised through further borrowing from the National
Provident Fund. See Chapter V for details.
4.10      Contractors will be engaged by NHC for civil works.  Construction
supervision and contract administration will be handled by NHC or by local
architectural/planning firms hired by NHC. Off-site water supply improvements
will be implemented by the Public Works Department (PWD); both land
development sites require the extension of off-site water mains which have
already been planned by PWD. GOV provided assurances at negotiations
regarding the timely installation of water mains through accepted PWD
standards and procedures.
4.11      The participating commercial banks will make all mortgage loans
required by project clients, make the credit decision and retain the credit
risk and servicing obligation. The commercial banks will then refinance these
loans to project clients through the HRF to be administered by the RBV as
agent of GOV. The HRF will be operated by a refinancing committee made up of
representatives of the participating banks, NHC and the Ministry of Finance
which will decide on the eligibility of packages for refinancing in terms of
project beneficiary selection criteria and conformity of loan terms offered by
the originating bank to agreed project terms. This will not affect the
originating bank's credit decision or its credit risk or its servicing



- 19 -
obligation on the loan. Banks will make loans to project beneficiaries as
described above.
4.12      Project coordination and monitoring will be the responsibilitv oi
the National Planning and Statistics Office (NPSO)--an adjunct to the Prime
Minister's Office-- which will also coordinate the cofinancing support. GOV
has also established the "Vanuatu Low Cost Housing Project Coordination
Conunittee"; a steering committee with permanent members from NPSO, MOF and NHC
to oversee project coordination. NPSO will delegate the day-to-day
coordiniation and monitoring tasks to NHC which is the key implementation
agency. A senior NHC officer will perform the monitoring and coordination
functions and will also prepare quarterly progress reports for IDA review on
the basis of reports submitted by tthe individual implementing agencies. NPSO
will also be responsible for coordinating the policy formulation studies which
extend across different sectors. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the performance of the HRF, including the numbers of loans and amounts
refinanced, as well as the clients' incor,ie distribution, appropriateness of
spreads, etc., will be reviewed annually to ensure that HRF Guidelines which
were set in consultation with IDA are complied with. In addition IDA will
review annually NHC's achievement of its financial performance targets (see
para. 5.11).  NBC, under guidance of NPSO, will be responsible for the
preparation of the project completion report (PCR).  The project
implementation schedule is presented in Annex 6.    Details of the proposed
project supervision are shown in Annex 13.
Statuis of Project Preparation
4.13      Project preparation led by NHC with support and guidance from MOF
and NPSO has proceeded satisfactorily. By August 1990 all required staff and
technical assistance had been engaged by NHC; designs and tender documents for
the first phase of site development had been completed. Under a pilot project
(which is wholly NHC-financed) 33 percent deposits for 45 lots have been
received from eligible purchasers by October 31, £990. Contracts for the
pilot project construction have been awarded, and construction of the first
phase has been completed. Design of the off-site water supply extensions have
also been completed. The commercial banks and the RBV have reached tentative
agreement on the guidelines for the operation and terms of drawing funds from
the HRF and lending to project beneficiaries.
D. Procurement
4.14      As there will be mainly small contracts--no civil works contracts
exceeding VT 30 million (approximately $250,000) and only one contract for
goods exceeding VT 6 million ($50,000)--it is unlikely that foreign bidders
will be interested. Therefore, local competitive bidding (LCB) acceptable to
IDA will be used, but interested foreign bidders will be eligible to
participate. The only exception to the above will be the procurement of heavy
landfill equipment estimated to cost up to $300,000; ICB procedures will be
used in this case, and any local suppliers will be granted a margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the
actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less. All other goods
supply contracts costing $100,000 or less will be awarded under LCB. For
water main extensions costing about $100,000, PWD will use force account work.
For smaller procurement contracts with values below VT 6 million (about



- 20 -
$50,000). local or international shopping (minimum 3 quotations) will be
employed, for a maximum aggregate value of such contracts not exceeding VT 30
million (about $250,000). All consultant services will be procured in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Bid documents and contracts costing in
excess of $150,000 equivalent financed directly with IDA funds will be subject
to IDA's prior review and will comprise the following: (i) NHC office
building; (ii) landfill site development; (iii) equipment and vehicles for
solid waste operations; and (iv) all consulting servicps, technical assistance
and traitning.  For all those contracts, the implementing agenc,  ill prepare a
detailed bid evaluation report for IDA review. GOV's bidding and evaluation
systems and procedures for use in connection with the proposed project were
reviewed at appraisal and are considered to be generally satisfactory.
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Procedure /a
Expenditure Category               ICB      LCB       Other /b  N.A./c   Total
Subloans                            -        -          -         2.44       2.44
(1.21)    (1.21)
Civil works                         -        0.93       0.16      -          1.09
(0.81)    (0.14)      -        (0.95)
Goods                               0.37    -           0.30      -          0.67
(0.35)             (0.25)               (0.60)
Consulting services, technical      -        -          0.55      0.20       0.75
assistance and training                              (0.44)    (0.18)    (0.62)
Total                          0.37    0.93       1.01       2.64      4.95
(0.35)  (0.81)    (0.83)    (1.39)    (3.38)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
lb Includes foice account work, local and international shopping, and
consultant selection following World Bank guidelines.
/c   Includes refinancing of eligible mortgage loans and expenditures covered
by cofinancing.
4.15      The major civil works contracts (about $0.9 million equivalent) for
site development--involving grading, road and water main construction--do not
come under the Bank Group procurement guidelines because IDA funds will only
be applied indirectly for refinancing mortgages to purchase serviced lots.
NHC will use funds raised locally from the National Provident Fund to finance
lot development. However, NHC will procure these works diligently and
efficiently to ensure quality, compatibility, timely completion and
competitive prices. NHC has determined that the best way to meet these
criteria will be to voluntarily follow Bank Group guidelines and procedures,
and beniefit from IDA review of bidding and contract documents as part of a
program to develop and improve NHC procurement and other procedures. It is



- 21 -
expected that this program will be prepared and implemented by NHC by December
31, 1992.
E. Disbursements
4.16      The IDA credit of $3.375 million equivalent will be disbursed over a
period of four years and will finance 100 percent of all consulting services,
technical assistance training and equipment, 90 percent of off-site
infrastructure civil works, and 75 percent of mortgage loans for land
development and house construction. No IDA disbursements will be made against
the cost of land which constitutes only about 10 percent of the total lot
cost. Financing for the latter will be channelled through the HRF and will
reimburse participating banks for a portion of actual mortgage disbursements
to project beneficiaries. Disbursements for HRF subloans, civil works and
goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent, and for all force account work
will be made against itemized Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The
supporting documentation for these SOEs will be retained by MOF and will be
made available to IDA for review during project supervision. Disbursements
for all consulting services, technical assistance and training will be fully
documented. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 7. The projected
pace of disbursements will be significantly faster than the Pacific Islands
profile for all sectors combined. There is no standard profile for housing
sector operations, therefore the financial sector profile for the Asia Region
has been chosen for comparison purposes. The forecast schedule is based on
the proposed financial intermediation arrangements which are expected to
result in a quick pace of disbursements. The production of serviced lots by
NHC is well in hand and will generate the demand for mortgages; refinancing of
mortgages constitutes close to half of the total credit.
4.17      In order to expedite project implementation a Special Account with
an authorized initial allocation of $250,000 equivalent will be established at
the RBV (the Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
Special Account will cover all expenditures, both local and foreign, and no
withdrawal application of less than $20,000 will be submitted to IDA for
payment.
4.18      To allow a prompt start-up of the project implementation, eligible
expenditures from July 15, 1990 will be financed retroactively up to a total
of $335,000 equivalent (SDR 250,000).
F. Accounts and Audit
4.19      The Accountant General's Department within MOF will maintain the
consolidated project accounts. The audited accounts for NHC and PIs including
the Special Account will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of
the respective fiscal year. NHC and the MOF (for the HRF) will send to IDA
for review within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year their audited
statements of their full accounts, including separate project accounts. All
audits will follow terms of reference agreed with IDA and will be conducted by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.



- 22 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. National Housing Corporation
Introduction
5.1       Since its estahlishment in 1986, NHC's financial experience has been
limited to implemeniting two schemes of approximately 40 units each, involving
design. construction, sales, mortgage origination and collections; executing
two lo:al borrowings; and expending funds for future project development and
administrative purposes.  The financial results of these operations are
summarizpd in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:  NHC SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS 1988-90
(Vatu '000)
(est)
1988         1989            1990
Balance Sheet
Current- Assets:
Cash & ST Invest.                       35,435       21,603          55,000
Mortgage Receiv.                           392        2,741           6,000
Other                                      134           57               0
Long-Term Assets
Work-in-Progress                         2,208       11,331          49,000
Mortgages                               52,959       49,718          54,000
AiIm . Bldgs & Eq.                      17,168       16,953          15,000
Lease s                                      0            0               0
Total Assets                             108,296      102,403         177,000
Current Liabilities:
Deit Service Payable                         0            0           3,000
Other Current Liab.                      3,894        3,862           4,000
Long-Term Liabilities:
Dev. Bank Loan                          36,056       38,702          37,000
Provident Fund Loan                          0            0          48,000
CDC Loan                                     0            0          32,000
Equity:
Paid in Capital                         70,189       70,189          70,000
Retained Earnings                       -1,843     -10,350          -17,000
Total Liabilities & Equity               108,296      102,403         177,000
Profit and Loss Statement
Jnoome
Sales                                      149        2,011           3,000
Earned Interest                          3,679        3,766           8,000
Misc:. Income                               54          183               0
Total Incorme                              3,882        5,960          11,000
Expenses
Cost of Goods Sold                         136        2,019               0
Salaries and Adm. Exp                    6,474        9,280          13,000
Prov. for DD                                 0          265             100
Inteuest Expense                             0        2,904           4,000
Total Expenses                             6,610       14,468          18,000
Net Profit (Loss)                        (-2,728)     (-8,508)        (-7,000)



- 23 -
Future Performance
5.2       Annex 8 presents detailed financial projections for the NHC through
the year 2000 along with the production, sales and other planning assumptions
upon which they are based. Under the scheme being implemented, NHC will
neither finance nor hold long term mortgages, except for the approximately VT
50 million mortgage portfolio originated before the end of 1990. Future
mhortgages for NHC developed properties will be provided by commercial banks
which in turn will refinance 75 percent of the value of the mortgages made
from the HRF. NHC will begin to show a small profit in 1991 and will grow
increasingly profitable in the next several years as deferred profits from
leases (see below) are recognized as income, thus producing a positive
retained earnings amount in 1993. Interest service, dett service, and current
ratios will be satisfactory at all times. These favorable results will be due
to NHC's pre-selling of lots before construction, with the assurance of the
availability of mortgages backed by the HRF. Should demand be less than
expected, less favorable results will be produced, but NHC will be able to
deal with a very sharp downturn in sales given the fact that its fixed costs
are quite low. Thus, the financial position of NHC can be expected to remain
satisfactory after 1990.
NHC Product Marketing, Sales and Leasing
5.3       Extensive work has been done to estimate the effective demand for
the kinds of shelter solutions being offered by the NHC under this project.
Since 1988 some 30 meetings were held in Port Vila and Luganville with groups
of lower-income ni-Vanuatu who stated their preferences and what they could
affoir(d by way of downpayment and monthly payments. Approximately 1,000
applications have been filed with the NHC and 30 people have opened Home
Savers Accounts with a local bank. To further confirm effective demand, NHC
held a pilot sale of approximately 45 lots in July 1990. As of October 31,
1990 35 of these lots have been sold with downpayments of at least 1/3 of the
purchase price.
5.4       The financial projections for NHC assume that approximately thirty-
seven percent of NHC's annual property sales will be made to buyers who can
immediately secure commercial bank mortgages. The projection3 assume that the
remaining sixty-three percent will be in the form of short-term leases made
for periods between six and thirty-six months. At the end of term of the
lease, a commercial bank mortgage will be secured by the lessee. These are
worst-case projections which assume NHC will have to administer a large number
of leases. NHC policy states that first choice will be given to buyers who
can immediately secure a mortgage, and it is expected that fewer leases than
projected will be required.
Leasing Scheme
5.5       NHC will operate the lease scheme to accommodate cash-poor potential
beneficiaries. The scheme is financially feasible because of the situation
low income earners now face in Port Vila, where typically they are forced to
pay monthly rents of VT 5,000 to 7,500 and more for inadequate accommodations
where sanitary facilities and water are shared by many families. The serviced
plots being offered by NHC can be acquired for monthly payments of
approximately VT 2,200 after a 33 percent downpayment. The difference in the



- 24 -
cost of leasing under the NHC scheme and renting on the existing tenement
rental market allows families with adequate income but lacking the cash for a
full downpayment to acquire a plot, erect a temporary shelter and set aside
sufficient funds to accumulate the 33 percent downpayment required for a long-
term mortgage in no more than three years. Once the mortgage has been
ol)tained, the household will have surplus funds available to complete a proper
structure on a self-help basis or to put aside sufficient funds to obtain a
mortgage for building a permanent shelter. The short-term nature of the
leases will force attention on any shortfalls in lease servicing and lead to
pronmpt corrective actions.
5.6       The lease interest rate will be set at the same rate commercial
banks are charging for long-term mortgages, thereby providing an adequate
spread to the NHC and allowing, from a cost point of view, adequate attention
to be paid to lease administration and collections. Commercial banks have
shown an interest in setting up special "Home Saver" accounts, which will
SuI)1)oLt the leasing scheme.
Construction Finance
5.7       Assuming it can convert leases to 'cash sales" on a timely basis and
keep collections up to date, NHC will not have to borrow additional funds for
future development. The 1990 borrowing from the National Provident Fund will
take care of NHC's new construction costs while the initial leases mature.
Thereafter, NHC can retire the Provident Fund and other loans prematurely.
Also it is possible that at some future time, NHC will be able to sell its
existing mortgage and lease portfolios to the commercial banks and thereby
generate additional liquidity through faster turnover.
Financial Sensitivity of Lease Scheme Performance
5.8       NHC can tolerate delays in lease conversion for a substantial period
of time (12 months or more on all leases) without serious problems with cash
flow (liquidity will tighten from 1992 to 1994, but never become negative nor
drive the Current Ratio below 1.8:1) or profitability (no losses after 1990;
return on P-uity will be only marginally lower than in t'.se projections shown
in Annex 'j. Collection rates for NHC's current mortgage portfolio are
assumed to grow from 60 percent in 1990 to 95 percent in 1995. This is
considered attainable as new mortgages will not be added to the portfolio
after 1990. Collection rates for leases are assumed to start at 95 percent
for 19Q1 and go to 98 percent in 1992 and beyond.  Although as indicated
above, NHC can tolerate delays in converting leases to mortgages, any serious,
sustained shortfall in collections will require an immediate halt to further
leasing as commercial banks will be unwilling to provide mortgages to
demonstrably slow payers.  The short term nature of the leases will force
attention on any shortfalls in lease servicing and lead to prompt corrective
actions.
Deposit Scheme
5.9       Should problems occur with the NHC's ability to sell its products
for any reason, its policy of taking deposits for relatively small portions of
its sites before starting constructions limits NHC's risk exposure, while its
small staff anid dependenice upon private contractors for all design and



- 25 -
construction work holds fixed costs to a minimum. NHC does not intend to
construct houses but rather let buyers arrange their own home construction on
a self-lhell) basis or through contracts with local builders. NHC has designed
and priced various housing plans--kits, core houses, and completed houses--
infoLmatiotn on which will be made available to prospective buyers.  However,
if NHC is obliged, in order to meet customer demands, to arrange for housing
construction, NHC will require the payment of deposits before beginning
constlrution and will add fees and mark-up to the selling price of the house.
Maik-Urp
5.10      NHC has set its mark-up on sales at 25 percent.  However, in the
initial years the mark-up will be higher as NHC received the land being
developed from government without cost, but is nonetheless imputing a land
cost (hased on market prices) in calculating the sales price.  The financial
projections in this key area for NHC have used a conservative mark-up of
27 percent through 1994 and 11 percent thereafter (when new land will have to
be purchased by NHC) as these produce fully satisfactory results and allow
room for the inevitable mistakes a new organization must accept as part of the
cost of starting up. If NHC develops as expected, it can reduce its mark-up
in the futurp to better serve its clients with affordable shelter.
NiHC Performance Targets
5.11      NHC performance will be guided by financial targets contained in its
Policy Statement (Annex 1, paragraph 20). These targets include financial
ratios and pricing formulas. In addition, the following operational targets
have Ihosn agreed with NHC to ensure a satisfactory financial performance and
to provide a basis for timely monitoring: (i) deposits shall have been
received for a minimum of 75 percent of the total lots of each construction
phase before start of construction; (ii) application of a lot price margin of
a minimum 25 percent over direct cost of development, including imputed land
value; (iii) adherence to a maximum of 5 percent arrears in new lease payment
collections; (iv) conversion of a minimum of 95 percent of leases within two
months after end of lease term into HRF-funded mortgages. Assurances were
obtained from GOV and NHC during negotiations that achievement of the above
performance targets will be reviewed annually with IDA. The Project Agreement
betweeni IDA and NHC sets out these targets, which are consistent with the
objectives and goals of NHC as listed in the NHC Policy Statement.
Financial Riskcs
5.12      This is the first low cost shelter scheme to be offered in Vanuatu
and the NHC is inexperienced in the business. However, as mentioned above,
I)olicips and pra(tices have beeni adopted to minimize risks, mainly through
sellitig prior to construction and financial cover in case of delays in
converting leases to mortgages or for initial problems in lease collections.



- 26 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The project will support the development of appropriate policies and
standards in the housing sector leading to an improved supply response and
increased private sector involvement centered on a sustainable housing finance
system.  The project will provide up to 400 middle and lower income households
with affordable serviced plots and houses and long-term financing therefor.
This, together with formal sector production, is expected to meet about a
third of the estimated new demand (not counting the backlog) in Port Vila and
Luganville over a four-year period. A substantial number of beneficiaries
will be drawn from slums and squatter settlements and will benefit from
greatly improved environmental and living conditions. Through competition for
teenants, the project has the potential over time to induce qualitative
improvements and lower rents in the existing tenement market. The related
off-site improvements of the Port Vila landfill site will contribute to the
resolution of an environmental nuisance which the existing dump had been
causing.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
6.2       The project wi]l recover all development and financial costs
includinig site acquisition, site development, infrastructure, NHC overheads,
and interest and ground rents during construction. House construction loans
will cover a maximum of 67 percent of construction cost, with the balance
coming from the purchasers' downpayments. Plot acquisition and house
financing will be consolidated in a single mortgage loan (where applicable)
repayable over 15-20 years at a variable market interest rate set by the
individual commercial banks. Land is priced at market value plus a
development fee even though in this project land has been acquired for the
cost of surveying fees and lease transfer fees only.
6.3       Based on the approach outlined above, the affordability of the
project's housing products including land and services will range from about
the 15th to the 75th urban income percentiles. The distribution of house
types in each municipality is based on the household income distribution for
thiat atea. Thus the Luganville site caters to a somewhat lower income range
than that of Port Vila (see Annex 11 for affordability analysis). The
variatioin of income distribution between Port Vila and Luganville is
sufficient to require separate shelter solutions for the two cities. There is
no rirlss-subsidizing within the project. The NHC lease scheme will allow low-
income families with limited savings to occupy a serviced site while saving
for the required mortgage down payment.
Economic Rate of Return
6.4       Rent levels for substandard tenement accommodations in Vanuatu are
very high. When comparable imputed rents are used to determine project
benefit values, high economic rates of return on the minimum standard housing
products offered in this project are indicated. Based on June 1990
development costs and rent levels, the economic rates of return on available
lot/house combinations will range from 19.7 to 60 percent (see detailed tables
in Annex 12). The cost stream includes land value, civil works, house



- 27 -
construction, physical contingencies and maintenance. In addition to imputed
rents, benefits are based on a site consolidation factor--a premium for the
value derived from increasing urbanization of the surrounding community. The
imputed rents are conservatively estimated, but the resulting underestimation
of potential benefits is offset by a possible overestimation of the
consolidation factor. A 20 percent increase in cost (as will be due to
construction delays) or a 20 percent decrease in benefits (as will be caused
by delays in house completion) will result in rates of return of 11.7 to 33.7
percent and 11.8 to 35.8 percent respectively. The overall weighted rate of
return, assuming a distribution of investment according to income
distribution, is calculated at 18.5, with the 10 percent sensitivity
variations giving 14.6 and 19.1 percent respectively.
B. Risks
6.5       The main risks for the project are that (a) GOV will not sustali1 the
political will to back NHC in the application of appropriate development
standards; (1) private banks will be unwilling to continue to make loens to
potential purchasers; and (c) GOV will not permit banks to foreclose on
defaulting low income and civil service project beneficiaries. These risks
are mitigated by (i) the increasing understanding and acceptance at senior
levels of government of the benefits of appropriate standards; (ii) the design
of the mortgage loan component on the basis of the commercial banks' own
lending criteria; and (iii) GOV's specific recognition of private bank lending
to project beneficiaries as a superior means of cost recovery. Procedures for
foreclo.sure are well established in Vanuatu and the commercial banks
anticilpate no problems in dealing with default. A further mitigating factor
has been the experience with the pilot project which tested the market and
confirmed the effective demand.
C. Environmental Impact
Status of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
6.6       A draft EIA report has been lIrepared by NHC with some assistance
from IDA; it was discussed and reviewed during appraisal and has been
finalized by GOV and submitted to IDA. The main points raised are outlined
below.
Institutional Setting
6.7       GOV has established the National Environment Committee (NEC),
responsible for review and coordination of environmental issues regarding
development.  The Environment Unit of the Ministry of Lands, Mines and
Forestry serves as secretariat to the NEC, and is addressing pollutioin
problems, most particularly in urban bays and lagoons. The Directorate of
Geology, Mines and Rural Water Supply is exerting tight control on wat r
source contamination.  The Ministry of Health is promoting waste water
disposal through septic tanks or improved pit latrine where appropriate, in
collaboration with WHO. NHC, as implementing agency of the proposed project,
is working in close cooperation with these agencies to comply with the
environmental requirements.



- 28 -
Environmental Issues
6.8       There are some environmental impacts resulting from this project,
but for the most part they are modest and of the type that will be associated
with the development of any similar residential area, such as disturbance to
soils and vegetation. These impacts will be mitigated with careful design and
construction procedures which have been incorporated into the project. Both
project sites are located on porous limestone bedrock which is susceptible to
groundwater contamination. This potentially serious impact was investigated
in depth. It was found that there was no immediate threat to the public water
supply at Port Vila or Luganville from proper on-site waste water disposal.
However in the long term, particularly in Port Vila, consideration may have to
be given to the construction of a central sanitary sewer collection system and
treatment facility, One critical issue which is being resolved in the short-
term, is the relocation of the Port Vila municipal refuse dump currently
located on the fringe of the Fres Wata North site. Addressing this problem
has required concerted action by several different government agencies, and
some outside consultant advice by WHO and ESCAP. These concerted actions have
resulted in the selection of a new environmentally acceptable landfill site
for Port Vila and surroundings. A specialist consultant has evaluated the
proposed site and found it to be well suited technically as well as
environmentally. An environmental assessment report is on the Project File.
Upon completion and review of the site selection process, GOV has issued a
statement declaring its intent to acquire control of the site. Completion of
arrangements for the use of the site for landfilling operations will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. There are no settlers, legal or other,
living on the development sites. Pending the development of the new landfill
and the setting up of a groundwater monitoring program, and providing that due
attention is given to ensuring the proper care of existing vegetation and
soils, there appear to be no significant environmental problems resulting from
this project.
Conclusion
6.9       The project will have an immediate and significant positive impact
on the physical environments cf Port Vila and Luganville and will in the
longer term contribute to improved planning, control, and monitoring of human
settlement. Properly designed and economically constructed infrastructure
systems will be supported under the project. The project will measurably
improve environmental conditions for about 400 households, with regard
particularly t, sanitation, food preparation, cyclone protection, and
crowding. Better solid waste management and disposal will be an additional
benefit to Port Vila's entire population.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
7.1       During negotiations assurances and confirmation were obtained from
GOV for the following:
(a) no amendments will be made to the NHC Policy Statement without prior
consultation with IDA (para. 3.7);



- 29 -
(b)  timely installation of off-site water mains for project sites by PWD
(para. 4.10);
(c) annual review of the operation and performance of the HRF to ensure
compliance with HRF guidelines (para. 4.12); and
(d) annual review of achievement of performance indicator targets by NHC
as follows: (i) receipt of deposits for at least 75 percent of all
lots prior to construction, (ii) minimum of 25 percent margin on
lots sold, (iii) maximum 5 percent arrears on lease payment
collections, and (iv) minimum 95 percent timely conversion of leases
to mortgages at end of lease term (para. 5.11).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.2 (a) execution of at least one participation agreement between GOV and a
PI (para. 4.7);
(b) completion of arrangements to use landfill site for Port Vila (para.
6.8).
Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 2.5 million ($3.375 million equivalent)
to The Republic of Vanuatu at standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



ANNEX 1
- 30 -                     Page 1 of 6
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
National Housing Corporation - Policy Statement
I. Objective
1.        The purpose of the Housing Corporation is to produce and encourage
the production by others of shelter for families who would not otherwise have
available to them the kinds of living accommodations they would both desire
and afford. A secondary task is to ensure that financing for the purchase of
corporation shelters is available to families who do not have access to
housing finance from other sources. It is recognized that cost recovery
requirement of financial self-sufficiency limits the activities of the NHC to
urban areas.
II. General Policies
Target Beneficiary Group
2.        NHC will operate in such a manner as to serve families whose total
family income falls between the 2nd and 7th deciles of the national
distribution of family income as determined by official Government statistics.
Shelter production and finance will be made available in proportion to the
number of families in the income decile. For the purpose of determining
eligibility, the income of the head of household, spouse and a maximum of two
adult children living at home shall be taken into account.
Financial Self-Sufficiency
3.        NHC will operate on a fully "self-sufficient" basis without
Government subsidies. Whilst it will not seek profit for its own sake, it is
required by the National Housing Corporation Act to price its properties and
services so as to be financially viable, including: ensuring the full
recovery of all direct and indirect costs; maintaining adequate levels of
liquidity, interest/debt service coverage, and reserves for losses; preserving
its capital base to meet the housing needs of future generations. NHC is
committed to the vigorous pursuit of payments due to it and will take prompt
legal action against accounts in default.
Products and Services
4.        NHC will concentrate on producing serviced sites in sizes and at
costs affordable by the population segment it serves, along with upgrading
sub-standard communities when the community so requests, and financing short-
term leases of lots and houses to allow the beneficiary to build up &
sufficient deposit for outright purchase through loans from the commercial
sector. It is committed to being an efficient producer of shelter and



ANNXA I
Page 2 of 6
- 31 -
financing. However, greater emphasis shall be placed on the production of new
lots and houses.
Coordination with Other Authorities
5.        NHC will work closely and cooperatively with zoning and other
regulatory agencies to ensure that the standards set allow the provision of
affordable shelter to all members of its target beneficiary group and will
coordinate its site development with PWD, and local authorities.
Cooperation with Regulatory Authorities
6.        NHC will establish covenants to ensure that its leases and mortgages
are secure and that its target group of families benefit from its product and
services, but will otherwise be guided by the principles that purchasers of
its properties: are free to enjoy and use their property as they please; have
the duty singly and collectively to care for their property including
"communal" land; and are subject to the regulations established by national
and local authorities. NHC will not provide services or substitute its own
regulations for those of other authorities or home owner associations. Should
its covenants be violated, NHC will seek remedies through the courts.
Provision of Services to Private and Public Bodies
7.        Where the NHC is requested to provide services to other bodies,
whether they be public or private organizations, it will do so on a strictly
commercial basis charging for its staff time, equipment and other overhead
costs. The provision of technical and financial services is to be only in
those specific areas approved by the Board in the Corporation's Business Plan.
III. Shelter Production
8.        NHC-produced sub-divisions will be designed and managed from
inception to the final sale of all lots under the authority and responsibility
of the "General Manager," who reports to the Board of Management, and ensures
thats
-    the area to be developed has been 'pre-sold' before construction
begins.
-    costs of lots offered for sale are affordable and desirable to its
target group of beneficiaries in proportion to their representation
in the population as a whole, varying standards to attain
affordability.
-    no development is to take place without the securing of leases to
the land on which development is to take place. The General Manager
is responsible to ensure that liaising with the Department of Lands
takes place to ensure timely completion of the leasing process.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
-32 -
adequate and affordable provisions are made for and agreed by any
squatters on the land before land acquisition is completed and
development begins;
required services will be available on time to allow the prompt sale
and occupation of lots as they are developed;
before the first lots are sold there will be available the
mechanisms, through local government or other authorities, to
provide for communal needs and services;
due consideration is given to transportation and access to work,
stores and services in choosing sites;
due consideration is given to the health and environmental concerns
of the Nation;
industrial and commercial sites may be developed in conjunction with
residential lot development and land may be set aside for
playgrounds, churches and other communal needs.
IV. Lease and Mortgage Financing
The corporation will only act as a lender of last resort.
Eligibility
9.        Financing will be available to all citizens who meet NHC's family
income and eligibility standards and the credit standards of the NHC and
lending agents. Industrial/commercial sites are sold for cash or short-term
notes of up to one year.
Allocation of Financing
10.       Credit and income eligibility will be determined prior to placing an
applicant on the NHC hcusing programme Waiting List with priority going to
those able to obtain a commercial loan immediately, and secondly to those
opening and maintaining with regular, agreed payments, a savings account.
Loans and property sales will be allocated from a chronologically ordered
waiting list established for that purpose, with allocations made
proportionately to the number of families in the various household income
deciles. Approved applicants are free to specify where they wish to purchase
subject to ability to pay and the phased NHC development programme.
Security
11.       Should the NHC act as 'lender of last resort," individual loans made
will be secured by a first mortgage on the property and such other security as
may be specified from time-to-time and case-to-case. Title to be held by the
NHC.



Page 4 of 6
- 33 -
Rate and Term
12.       Loans will carry an interest rate set by NHC at the time the loan is
originated, based upon its current cost of funds and lending spread. The
Management will periodically review the interest rate based on changes to its
cost of funds.
Rate Adjustment
13.       Every six months Management shall automatically adjust rates up or
down, based on the weighted average cost of funds to NHC for the past six
months. Old leases or mortgages will be brought to current standards through
maximum allowable adjustments every six months. Leasors and Mortgagors will
be promptly notified by mail and through publication in the local media of the
adjustment, including notification of no change in the lending rate.
Credit Standards
14.       Applicant family income and ability to pay will determine the size
of lease or loan a family is eligible for. Family credit obligations in
excess of one year will be deducted before computing family income to
determine the amount of loan eligibility. No more than one-third of the
remainder may be allocated to mortgage payments to determine maximum
eligibility after downpayments. Closing costs may be charged to the loan.
Credit applications will contain affidavits certifying the statements thereon
are true, that no other residence is owned and that the applicant intends to
occupy and use the property as a permanent home. Legal remedies will be
soughit when false affidavits are discovered. Graduated rate instruments will
not be used.
Payments
15.       Level monthly payments will be called for in all contracts.  Normal
procedure will havt. )ayments due in the first week of each calendar month.
Payments not received on the day due will be followed up immediately by
telephone and/or personal visit to the mortgagor. The purpose will be to
encourage prompt payment and to reduce the overhead costs from delinquent
payments.
16.       Payments received 15 days or more late will be assessed additional
interest monthly at tha rate of 0.5 percent a month until brought current.
These late payments are to be treated as "secondary" debts, with their
repayment running concurrently with that of the loan.
17.       Accounts in arrears 30 days will receive notices, delivered by hand,
of default; accounts 60 days in arrears will be contacted again in person and
in writing; accounts in arrears 90 days or more, vhere no work-out has been
agreed to, will be considered in default and legal action instituted to re-
possess the property.
18.       Early and higher than agreed payments will be encouraged.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
- 34 -
V. Finance and Administration
Management and Financial Planning
19.       In November of each year the General Manager will recommend to the
Board the operational and business plan, and budget for the next year. These
recommendations, in such manner and detail as prescribed by the Board, will be
supported by a five-year financial projection, prepared by the management, and
indicating clearly the assumptions and policies used to make the forecast,
highlighting where changes to previous year assumptions and policies used. In
reviewing the budget, operating plan and financial projections, NHC's
financial and policy assumptions will also be reviewed and confirmed or
modified by the Board, including inter alia, the lending spread for the next
twelve months.
Financial Objectives
20.       In its planning and administration of NHC, Management will produce,
maintain and/or observe the following standards:
-    Accounts in arrears 180+ days:   2 percent of accounts
-    Provisions for Doubtful Debts:   1 percent of the net value of
outstanding loans
-    Debt/Equity Ratio:                 7:1
-    Current Ratio:                     1.5:1
-    Interest Service Ratio:            1.5:1
-    Debt Service Ratio:                2sl
-    Lending Spread:                    set to recover all non-capital
admin. operational costs
attributable to the financial
instrument.
-    Current Lending Rate:              weighted average costs of past 6
months of borrowings plus spread.
-    Maximum lending rate
adjustments:                       +/- 1 percent per annum
+/- 5 percent life of mortgage
-    Down Payments                      Min. 15 percent of selling price
Selling Price Hark-up
21.       Thie financial records of the Corporation will be maintained in such
a manner as to identify the full direct and indirect costs of properties sold.
The selling mark-up will be set annually by the Board at the time of the
approval of the budget and plan. The mark-up will be set tot fund reserves,



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
- 35 -
maintain ratio standards, and preserve capital in real terms. Management will
propose the mark-up to the Board as part of the annual budget and plan in the
longer term context of the five year financial forecast. Management is
granted flexibility to apply the mark-up differently to classes of property,
particularly to maintain affordability for the lowest income group served by
NHC. Industrial/Commercial sites are to be offered on tender to the highest
bidder as a cash or near cash sale. Any residential, industrial or commercial
property offered for sale at a price below full cost requires prior Board
notification.
Borrowing
22.       NHC seeks to match maturity and rate in its lending and borrowing
portfolios to the maximum extent possible and to diversify its sources of
finance. Except during times of unusually high interest rates and with the
approval of the Board, NHC will not borrow at maturities less than ten years
to fund its mortgage portfolio. Lease and Construction loans may be borrowed
short-term. Long-term borrowings at fixed rates are to be committed to fixed
rate mortgages for the same maturity whenever possible. Adjustable rate
borrowings will always be loaned at adjustable rates.
Delegation to General Manager
23.       Policy making is the exclusive right of the Board.  The GM's is
authority to carry out the plans and policies approved by the Board subject to
the following restrictions and conditions:
-    Construction and/or land acquisition contracts in excess of
VT 500,000 require the approval of the Chairman. Any contract with
a value in excess of VT 5,000,000 requires the Board's prior
approval.
-    Vacancies in managerial positionR reporting to the GM are not to be
filled on a permanent or acting basis without the prior approval of
the Board.
-    The Board is to be notified promptly if any events beyond
management's control will prevent the fulfillment of the approved
annual plan or realization of its financial objectives.
-    Management is to report monthly to the Board current operating and
financial results consistent with the format and manner in which the
annual plan was presented to and approved by the Board.
VI. Audit
24.       Annual audits of the NHC accounts and internal controls will be
carried out by an auditor as provided for in sections 14.(3) of the Act.
Additionally, the NHC is to be subject to an annual commercial audit.



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                    Page 1 of 2
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
NHC Housing Scheme
1.        The National Housing Corporation (NHC) will produce serviced lots of
minimum 260 m2, with same larger plots based on client affordability. All
lots will be serviced with road access, municipal water connection with meter
and standpipe, and on-site sanitation facilities--either VIP latrine or septic
tank and soakaway. All services will be operable at the time the lot is
delivered to the client. Upon purchase of a lot, a 50-year ground lease will
be transferred to the purchaser. NCH will not build houses, but will offer
advice and will provide design options which have been developed as
affordable. Thus, a range of options are available to match income levels,
including temporary shelter, permanent shell-or-core-houses, and fully
completed permanent houses. Prospective buyers will be encouraged to buy
upgraded shelter when they are financially able to do so, within certain
income and payment ability limits. Buyers will also be made aware of their
obligation to comply with local building codes for both temporary and
permanent houses. Within these financial and regulatory limits, the choice of
the buyer will be fully respected by NHC.
2.        The scheme provides a choice of purchasing methods as well as
products. Normally a one-third downpayment will be required. However, low-
income purchasers with limited savings who cannot meet the full downpayment
requirement may lease a lot from NHC for a limited time while accruing the
remainder of the required downpayment before a mortgage can be arranged. For
example, those earning between VT 20,000 and VT 39,999 a month may select a
lot with a minimum downpayment of 20 percent if they have the ability to make
monthly payments of at least VT 4,000. This lease-purchase payment will be
applied partly to the lease payment and partly to saving for the one-third
downpayment. The buyer may then immediately occupy the lot and erect a
temporary shelter on the site. The leasing scheme is made affordable by the
fact that low income families now pay from VT 5,000 to 10,000 monthly in rents
for inadequate shelter. The significantly lower lease payments (around VT
2,000 monthly for interest) allow the rapid accumulation of savings. Leases
will be available only to clients who cannot otnerwise obtain a mortgage, and
will have maximum terms of three years. Buyers with more income and/or
savings may obtain a mortgage directly from a participating commercial bank
and choose from a variety of shelter options designed by the NHC or by
themselves. Those lacking both the 33 percent downpayment and the monthly
payment capability for lease purchase may begin a downpayment savings plan
with a local bank which, if paid into according to an agreed-upon schedule,
will ensure a priority for buying a lot from the future production of NHC and
also establish their creditworthiness while accruing the required downpayment.



ANNEX 2
- 37 -                    Page 2 of 2
3.        In an effort to accommodate the lower income group in the scheme, a
range of designs for use by NHC clients have beer. developed, costed, and
reviewed for affordability and minimum cyclone/earthquake resistance, from a
one-room tradit ional "sleep-house" to 40 m2 concrete and block structures
designed to evolve from core units or shells. Lot purchasers will be required
to make all building arrangements, including obtaining necessary permits. Lot
costs including connections and either a septic system or Ventilated Improved
Pit latrine would range from VT 250,0'Ou to VT 400,000, with an average of
about VT 320,000. Approximately 80 percent of the lots would cost VT 308,000
(260 m2 with septic tank). Together with house costs these would be
affordable to households between the 15th and 75th income percentiles. House
costs range from VI 143,000 to VT 1,590,000, and are expected to average
VT 630,000. See Annex 10 for affordability analysis.
Housing Rediscount Facility
4.        Under the project, a Housing Rediscount Facility (HRF) will be
established to partially refinance, through the intermediation of commercial
banks (participating institutions, or PI), mortgages for the purchase of the
serviced lots developed by NHC (or other qualified developers), and for the
construction of homes by low and middle income ni-Vanuatu in Port Vila and
Luganville. Draft guidelines covering the objectives, eligibility criteria,
credit guidelines, operating procedures and associated modalities for the HRF
have been established in consultation with RVB and senior officials of the
three major commercial banks represented in Vanuatu (see Annex 9).
5.        Operating procedures and participation agreements (to be executed
between GOV and participating intermediaries) will be drafted by RVB prior to
negotiations. Participation in the HRF is open to all eligible commercial
banks or financial institutions, subject to approval by RBV. Although all
three commercial banks expressed strong interest, so far only one bank has
provided the full information necessary to appraise its eligibility. It is
desirable and expected that all potentially eligible banks participate in the
scheme.
6.        The estimated $1.0 million equivalent in IDA funds required to
capitalize the Housing Rediscount Facility (HRF) would be onlent by GOV
through the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) 1/ at the Secure Lending Rate
(SLR) 2/--set and from time to time adjusted by RBV--to PIs to refinance 75
percent of the value of mortgage loans for NHC lot purchases and home
construction by eligible beneficiaries. The PIs would add an appropriate
spread (estimated currently at 4 to 5 percent) to the SLR and carry the fully
credit risk. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOV. The resulting
mortgage interest rates of 13 to 14 percent to beneficiaries are in lins with
present market interest rates. Affordability analysis indicates that interest
rates in this range do not have significant adverse impact on affordability
even for the lowest qualifying income groups.
1/   RBV would retain 0.5 percent for handling and HRF administration.
2/   The Secured Lending Rate (SLR) is set by RBV at 1.0 percent higher than
the highest vatu deposit rate, but it is not necessarily pegged to this
rate. The present interbank rate is 7 percent.



1:..  MI    MI.   111Z,,141t OI  Hit    10:1.1 Ill:1  OR                                    1111t 1 til    tEt11 MIs  il!1  BzGi   "it                lii II.   IN,III.I.                               t'iX 1
.  ....... .. ......... .................. .. .................................. . .......................................... ..............................................................................
...    . . ............. . .................................................................................... ...................................................... ...... I...
-;  .  W  X  t    .   t                  t         s     t e      .            t.   ss  .          1~~~~11    I  1 t.   Ilt.  t .   tI    I        I tl  tl .1  s  t     anol   ,.°s 25  t$§
l r t i r t 3ez t  r  g:  |  St  3  stl tt 1ti lx sX s its ll §se Tl gls g gst gl l Ils 3l   |  .1  X ,,:,I  sIN   Io-iti Iti It       ,    MI
I'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI I1& rNt IfLO "IE,I                                                                    z
_ ............- ........ ........ ......................... ........................................................................................................ ................................................................ ........
t  0  |  3  3j  |         0         |        t3    11|:'  |&!-t  {g!:~~~~~~~~V                                        'M'  its 11 0t l I. §t'OR,Wtl2IT1111111411i p"t.Lu
wuimolal tsu ails Ult UO 
__X~~~~~~~~~.    ._.._  ............................ . ____...............__.... _._......__..........................................
p   t    ttzt    2  XtE l    XtT    2           iUt        .us               m         t      m o  ft                                   lql of         ti   i ' :§'    : lt   n '     ,, 5t Polito
itZ  t   1                I,: t1      1: iUt    iU  t    i   h   1t      I         ttl  l     , itl   I         I         I         I         ttl    lte:: '1   ""'J,,        III7P 1.                         ' T.  IF
Oil -- 'ttl1131UMS f"IOIUS"I 'I
_._                                                                                       ..   _._....    _   _        _    __   ... _-.-.... ---.-.--- _---------_---------------------------.....*----------------------
!     1 01  IT, 01111 1:11 11:11 MT   1:1  HIT                                               1 1114 l:                            1  1  1:1|1111 1111t ON                                           Is"
iiiiii 31 p               iiii      iiiiiti i  n--ir F -ii"     iiioi  ~ ':_1iiiiio   Riiio iiei   iiiiio      'iWci  iio i  iiiiei    iio         ii -ioiiiiiiHi;   ....ii0i0
_._._~~~~M                                                                       U                ._____N........_i..........._a............
eUI ftwr s ma m mior7tml   m Mn   m 16lnn 1mW tloeM 1m                                                                                     ommo



- 39 -
VANUATU                                       ANNEX 4
HOUSING PROJECT
SUmary Ct Table and Financing Plan
C0mpoment                      ,    Base Cost       :                      Financing Plan
(YO000) (S '000)                          (  '000)
A  Laud Development and Rose :                  114     IDA         Colo.     Bene-    Co-lit.$       GOV    TOTAL
Construction through 8HI                         ,               Banks     fic's
M Plow development            106,303       932      466  502   159 17   308 332    0   0       0  0S     932
2.  oe construction           143,640    1,260       630  502   214 172   416 332    0   02    0  02   1,260
subtotal      249,943    2,192   1,096  50   373 17S   724 332    0   0         0  02   2,1 2
9  NBC 3treagthening
1. Tech. Asst. & Training       44,346      389      389 1002      0  0     O  0     0   02    0  02      389
2. Office & Equipment           21,124       185 '   176  952      0  02      0  02    0   02    9  52       185
subtotal        65,470      574 ,   565  982       0  O0      0  02    0   02    9  02      574
C. Off-Site Water Supply
1. Port Vila                     5,520       48       44 902       0 02       O 002    O 0        5 102      48
2. Luganville                    3,600        32,    28  902       00 2       00 2     00 2       3 102      32
subtotal         9,120       80       72  902      0  02      0  02    0   O0     8 102      80
D. Port Vila Landfill Site
I                    I
1. Relocation & Develop't       74,350      652      574  882      0  02      0  02    0   02   78 122      652
2. Equip t & Vehicles           56,500       496     486  982      0  02      0  0    0   0   10  22       496
3. Operl lsst. I Train'g        18,000       158       0   0       0  02      0  02  158 1002    0  0       158
subtotal       148,850    1,306 :1,060  812        0  02      0  02  158  122   88  72    1306
L. Policy formulation
*                    I
Studies I Short Ters TA   '   15,400         135 '   135 1002      0  02      0  0    0   02    0  02       135
subtotal        15,400       135     135 1002      0  02      0  02    0   O     0  02      135
.....................-------------------.-----------------------------------------------------------
508tOtIL P&SI COStS '4189,783    1,288 ,2,920              373       724       158        105       1,288
CONTINGNCIES
1. Physical                 :   24,039       211 '   144          18         36        8          5          211
2. Price                    '   51,250       450 :   307          39         76       17         11          450
subtotal   :   75,289        660 :   451          57        111       24         16          660
...............-------------------    ------------------------------------------------------...-----.. . ......
TOTALS      ' 564,072    4,948 '3,379            430        835      182        122        4,948
~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .... . ... ............. ... ............ .... .........................
FidFIIPLAU
06 bay 91



ANNEX 5
- 40 -                          Page 1
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
National Housing Corporation Staff Training
1.        Vanuatu faces an acute shortage of skilled and experienced
Ni-Vanuatu in all disciplines required for the design, implementation and
operation of an economic development program. To cope with this shortage, an
unusually large complement of expatriates are employed in critical positions
throughout the government and the economy.
Training Needs of the NHC
2.        The NHC was established by an Act of Parliament in 1985 but, partly
due to shortage of skilled staff, it only started operations in 1988. Its
main function is to provide affordable shelter for the majority of Ni-Vanuatu
particularly in the lower income groups. Since 1988 the Corporation has built
and sold a number of houses and serviced plots largely with the help of long-
term foreign (Volunteer) professionals and short-term foreign consultants. At
present the NHC has four expatriates and four Ni-Vanuatu full time staff
members including the General Manager. This 1:1 expatriate/local staff ratio
needs to be reduced during the next 3-4 years through recruitment and training
of more local staff.
3.        NHC therefore needs tachnical assistance to train both its existing
as well as new staff in order not only to cope with ongoing projects, but also
to ultimately and gradually replace the expatriates and run the Corporation
efficiently.
Apprenticeship Training
4.        To prepare for the future management and operations of NHC, and to
benefit from the "on-the-job" training that can be provided by NHC's
expatriate staff over the next three years, support is needed to fully fund
the costs of a complement of eight young Ni-Vanuatu school leavers (preferably
with some working experience) for a three-year apprenticeship with the NHC. A
condition of entering the program will be the bonding of the individuals to
service with the NHC, or another Department of the Government for a five-year
period after completion of the program.
S.        Each apprentice will receive academic and on-the-job training in
various aspects of low income shelter design, development, sales, collections,
accounting and management. It is anticipated that four trainees will come
from or show aptitude for and be trained in the technical aspects of shelter
development, while the others will be trained in management, housing finance,
accounting, sales and collections work.
6.        Specific training programs will be designed and implemented, subject
to the review and concurrence of donor agencies after candidate capabilities
are assessed. In general, each trainee will be posted to a foreign low-income



ANNEX 5
- 41 -                          Page 2
housing corporation (like the Fiji Housing Authority) for up to six months
apprenticeship; and/or will attend up to twelve months of shelter development
course at a foreign training institution; and work at the NHC under the
direction of experienced Ni-Vanuatu and expatriate staff in the various
aspects of the Corporation's efforts.
7.        The cost of the apprenticeship program will depend on the length of
the course or attachment and the location. However, as an example, assuming
the training takes place in Fiji (at the Fiji Housing Authority), the typical
cost for one participant would be as followst
Vatu              $
(a)  Salary:  25,000 VT p.m. for 3 years           90,000            7,900
(b) Foreign Apprenticeship 3 months
- Subsistence Allowance of $40 p.d.                             3,600
- Air Travel - 1 round trip                                       500
(c) Study course: 3 months
- Subsistence allowance of $40 p.d.                             3,600
- Tuition: 3 months e $500 p.m.                                 1,500
- Air Travel: 1 round trip                                        500
(d)  Contingency                                                     1,000
Total Cost                                                     21,000
Staff Training
8.        None of the current Ni-Vanuatu staff of the NHC are trained and/or
experienced in low-income shelter development although all have relevant
academic and work experience in other disciplines. By working closely with
NHC's complement of expatriates who themselves are experienced in various
aspects of shelter development, it is expected that their competence in low-
income shelter will grow rapidly. Nevertheless, the "on-the-job" training in
NHC that they are receiving needs to be amplified through systematic studies
and/or practical work in such areas as housing finance, real property
marketing, land sales, land development, contract administration, accounts,
office management, etc.
9.        A staff training fund is therefore needed to pay for travel,
subsistence, tuition and attachment overseas at an average of four months per
staff member over the next three years. Again assuming the training takes
place in Fiji, the cost of upgrading the skills of one existing staff member
would be:



- 42-                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
(a)  Salary:  Already paid by NIJIC
(b) SLutdy CoLirse: 2 nloiitlis
- Tuition, $500 p.m.                                            1,000
- SubslsLtence allowance $40 p.d. x 60                          2,400
- Air Travel I rotund tril)                                       500
(c)  At.tachment: 2 iwiontlis
- SubsJst.ence Allowatnce $4o p.d. x 60                         2,400
- 'lravel: I 1ouIId                                               500
(d)  ConLitjgelncy                                                    1,000
Tot a l CosL                                                  7,800
10.        Oti Lhe above assumpLtions, the total budget for Teclinical Assistance
to L alt  IJIJC sl.ail dLuriing Llie ntext Llhree years will be:
Vatu                $
(a) 'I'o train 8 uew sLaff oIeIIII)ers
VT 900,000 x 8                                 7,200,000             63,000
$13,100 x 8                                                        104,800
(b)  To traln 4 exlst.lnig stalf ineituLers
$7,800 x 4                                                           31,200
Total aIludget                                                  199,000



43 -                            ANNEX 6
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Component        CY            1990    1991        1992    1993       1994
Lot Development by NHC
Pilot Project (Port Vila FWS)    D D T C  C C
Port VIla - FWN  I                         D  D T C C
Port Vila - FWN II                                D D  T C C
Port Vila - FWN III                                         D D  T C C
Luganville                                      D D T  C C
House Construction
(by beneficiaries)                                O P  OP O P  O P O P  O P O
Mortgage Refinancing                                 O P  OP OP  O P O P  O P O
NHC Inst. Strengthening
Short-term Tech. Assistance                       E E       E E    E E
Equipment & Vehicles                                 S  S      S  S
New Staff Training Scheme                               O P O P  O P O P  O P
Staff Traiing                                     EE        E E    E E    E
Port Vila Landfill Site
Site Selection & Acquisition               E  E E
Design and Development                          D D C  C C
Equipment                                            S  S S
Reclamation of Old Dump                           E E  E E
Off-site Water Supply
Port Vila                                     c c c
Luganville                                        C C  C
Policy Formulation
Coordinator
Studies                                                 E E E E  E E
Legend:  D - Design                            T - Tendering
C - Construction                     S - Supply
E - Execution                        0 - Ongoing program/activity



- 44 -                            ANNEX 7
VANUATIY
HOUSING PROlJECT
Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
Estimated Disbursements
Cumulatiave          Profile La
Semester       Ending          Amount       Amount         X          cum. (1)
1          06/91            0.00         0.00          0.0             0
2           12/91           0.30         0.30         12.4             6
3          06/92            0.34         0.64         18.9            18
4          12/92            0.44         1.08         32.0            34
5          06/93            0.60         1.68         49.7            50
6          12/93            0.50         2.18         64.5            66
7          06/94            0.50        2.68          79.3            78
8          12/94            0.45         3.13         92.6            86
9          06/95 /b         0.25         3.38       100.0             94
10           12/95                                                     99
11           06/96                                                    100
/a Asia Region Profile for financial sector operations.
/b Credit closing date.



VANAIIAItl I tOt ISING c()PORAIIoN - linaaci3l P'medtion M,wkl
.  ...................................... ................... ............
BAI ANtl si I-'
...... ... .....
(I3RRlINI .ASSE.IS                        1989     1VI0       1991       1992       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997       1998       1999      210
...  .. .    . ..       ..       ....       ----.                .          . .
(ASI                                        22         3         4          4          3         4         3          3         4          4          5         5
SIKIRl'llTRM INVESTMENTS                     0        52       279         14         11        20        36         50        66         89        119       158
Rl:.'l IYABI.IS:
lEASI5 I YEAR                               0         0          2          3         3          3         3         3          3         3          3         3
lJIAS1:S2YI:ARS                             0         0          0         12        16         16        16        16         19        19         19        19
IEASES 3 YEARS                              0         0          0         0          7         18        Is        18         18        22         22        22
IEXI'CUTIVFJSTAFFIIOUSESRENTS               0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0          0         0
l.ONG TERM MORTGAGES                        3         6          S         4          4         3          2         2         2          2          2         2
TOTAL.CURRENTASSETS                         24        61        40         38        44         64        79         93       113        140        170       210
NON-PERFORMING ASSETS
WORKS IN PROGRESS:                          11        49        15         14        13         12        12         12        13         13        13         14
ADMPROP&EOUIP+MISCCURASS                    17        IS        12         10         8          S         3          1        -I         -4        46         8
............. .........                   ....      ... .      ...       , . ,,,,    ,                                            ,   .__,..  ....  ....  --- _ -
rOTALNON-PERFORMINGASSEIS                  28        64         27        24         21         17        15        13         11         9          7         5
~=======-===w==s=_..... ...... ..... ... ===,=    =-===  .... ... ====  ====  ====  ._.,===,====.== _- =,==    ==s=_t=                          =_e_      .=_.
I.EASE PORTFOLIO- I YEAR                    0          0         2          1         I          I         1          2         2          2         2         2
I.EASE PORTFOLIO- I YEAR                    0          0        12         16        16         16        16         19        19         19        19         19                                         4-
IEASE PORTFOLIO- I YEAI                      0         0         7         25        36         36        36         39        43.    43            43        43                                          V
LONG TERM MORTGAGE PORTOLIO                 50        S4        52         50        48         46        45         43        42         40        39        37
SUTOTAL ALL PORTFOUCOS                      50        54        73         92        101        99        97        103       105        103       242        1*
LESSPROV.FORDOUBTFUL DEBTS                  0         I          2         3          4         5          6         7         8          9         10        11
.. .....      .....      .. ..________
TOTAL PERFORMING ASSElS                               53        71         88        97         94        91        96         97        94         92        4
... =    =-               = --         ---       ---        ---       ---       ---        ----    . ---        .--.,-- .,
RENTAL PROPERTIES (GROSS)                              0        84         e4        84         84        84         84        84         84        84         4
*PROV FOR DEPRECIATION                      0          0         1          4         6          9        11         14        16         19        21        2
RE.NTA   PROPERTIES (NET)                    0         0        83         80        78         75        73         70        68         65        63        U
NEI'VALUE OF PERFORMING ASSET               50        53       154        169        174       169       164        166       164        159       154       149
(0I3E1RASSETS
TOTAL ASSE1S                               103       178       221        230        239       250       258        m         2F8        31        332        3"
=.     =====., ....     ....   ,  _ .s ...     ..... ....       .....s .... .-I
go 



VANlIAlU HOUMNG COUORATlON - limAelal hOdtl  ModdL.
. .. ......... ............_._._
INOmiE STAEMIENT
..........  - ....._
REVENUES                               1989       1991      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999       t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                       .   ._._ ....  .. ..  _ ....      .. ... ... .... ... ... ... __
INIEREST: LEASES I YEAR                             0         0          1         I         I         I         I         1         1         I         I
0    IEXStLEMES2YEARS                               0         1          3        5         6         6          6         6         7         7         7
14IEREST:LEASES3YEARS                               0         0          2         5        7         9          9        10        10        II        II
INMREST: LONG TERM MOR1GAGES                        6         7          7        8          7         7         7         6         6         6         6
RENTALDECOME                                        0         6         12        12        12        12        12        12        12        12        12
INiERESTST.l2VEST.                                  2          5         3         1         2         3         5         6         8        11        Is
MROFIrO1SALES                                       3         6          7        10        13        13        13        t0         8         9         9
_  _  .. _ .,,, ,,,,..   ....      ...
TOTALREVEHUE                                        11        25        35        42        47        50        52         52       53        56        60
-PROVFORDOUDULDEBIS                                  1
NETREVENUE                                          10        24        34        41        46        49        Sl        51        52        55        59
EXPEDrIURES
PERSSVCS(OTHERADMEXP                                16        18        21        23        23        23        23        23        23        23        23
BLANK                                               0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         6
DEPREITIO4ADMROPERTY                                 2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2
DERECtATIO     RENTALMROPEY                          0         1         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3
ADMNl TRATON  COSIS                                  8        22        26        28        28        28        28         28       28        2S       21
.CA?rALIW                                           5         10         6         6         6         7         9         9         9         9         9
NETOTIEAINGCOSIS                                    13        12        20        22        22        21        20         20       20        20        20
GROSS ROFrI                                         -3        12        14        19        24        28        31         31        32        36       39
FMANCALCOS
NFF                                                 2         5         4         4         4         4          4         3         3         3         6
DEVE.PIM     CBANK                                  3         3         3         3         3         3          2         2         2         2         2
CIDC                                                1         4         6         6         5          5         5         5         4         4         4
IDA                                                 0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         6         0         6
STLOANSANDOVERDRAF                                  S         0          0         0        0          0         0         0         0         0         6
TOTALFDIAlICALCHARGES                                7        12        13        13        12        12         11        10        10         9        6
-C"rrALuED
WI?                                                 3         8          3         3         3         4         4         4         4         4         4
NEWrIERESTErENSw                                     4         4        10         9         9         8         7         6         6         5         2
NETPROFIT                                           -7         8         4         9        i5        20        24         25        27       31        38
on^s       00s nw ns , s                                       O=..S .S. ..n .f..
I.



- 47-                     -a 
_~~~~~~~~ :
*I
-~ ~~~-
g § ~~~~~~*                         Ux;ptos e---o0s  
s~~~~~~~~~~  s     v*e   t2o"s    i
1 ~~ " i XA-
,                     I . 
$~~~~~~~~~                             I    |0ll!    tSlll  



4ATI(OWAIMMIOIMs1NG C(RIMUtATON  siAl.I.S PrAN RY rYrP EF *M;AJ. ANI) INt'tMI- (AnllfiORY
W.P3S8 (W * I.'M         19       91 3993           I         W2 3993  11  1W9  1PFN    199?      I998     199      2000               TOTAL        %
....... ......._..................  ...... . .... .............. .........  .........  .........  .... ........  .........  .......    .... . .......  ..... ......  ....._. . _    .... ..... ........  .........  ...... .....  .... .._
IS 1K vIol INC
)rntUlaGTSALR              8        to       13        Is       i5        i5       Is       I8        18       18       18                    165      6.0%
3Y3iARIEASE                0       29        3#       9R        9R       9#       117      117      117       117      117                    944     34.5%
WJ-STARCGET4S1k            20       86      113       113      113       113      135      135       135      135       135                  1231      4S.%
........... .................   _*w ......_ ........ ........... .......... X,,,,,,,,,,,............... ............  ., ..... ....... .............    ...    .. .. ............. .... ........     .. .     ............ _. . .......... _ va@@*B,_w*@>v_ ........
W."4l v lni Im-
HitlhIIrlTSALE            23        a        5s        36       30        10       36       36        36       36        36                   390      14.3%
2 YIAR LFASE               0        53       79       7i        70        70       44        64       84       84        as                   753      27.s%
WAFSTARGET4S:              18       76      13        IN        Ise      30       320       120      120      120       120                  1994      *.0%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                . . . .. ...   .. .  .. . . . _ . . . . . .
(XtTIGtffSALE             14       39       5        25        25       25        30       30       30        30       30                    3?      1220%
I YEAR LEASE               0       19       25        13        13       13        35       15       i5        15       15                    157      5.7%
AIESTARGETFIS             7        29       39        38       36        30       45       45        45       45  4_     5                   d'       15.0%
rOTA[&
OUTRIGHTSALE              45       a        118        70       70        70       84       84        84       84       84                   8e2      322%                                                           1
I YEAR LEASE               0       It        25       13        13       33        Is       Is       is        is       Is                    157      5.7%
2 YFAR LEASE               s        53       70       70        70       70        84       R4       84        84       84                    753     27n3%
3YEAR LASE                 0        29       3S       9         98       19 137            t17       117      117      117                    944     34W%
.tRAND TOTAL              45       390      25s       u        250       250 0    30        310      30       30        300                  2ms    1an0%
I1E



'AIN    n  IIOUSAGCOa rPORATlON FINANCIAL FROJECnIONS MOD.L (LFASING)
,....... _.. ._ _
INPIrl'AsuMPTOs WED mINIMMODEL
....... ....  
S      lMoS                                19"       19         1992       1993       1994                                                               1 1996  1997  1998  399  20W
,,,,,,._  .. __.... ...                                                   ....       .. _..                ....      .......    ....       .. .....
Wv ORK IN PORESS--                               -    -
. apiCd b_gae   *0                         9.0        9.4e      9W         9.00       9.00       9.00       9.00       9.00       9.00      9.00       9.0W
. api'dAAdiEffAWAR6 0                     13.10 13.0 l3.0 13W                         13.00      1300      J3.00      13.00      300        13.00      13.
I3F.RESTRJTE                              11.00      12*0      113        14.00      14.00      14.00      14.00      140        14.00     14.00      14.00
IlRANSFER I   CURRENT                      3     60   66        3.6        3.6        3.0        3.6        360        3.60      3.60       3.60       3.0
CI0IJ.X )l1OE1jICEJOCY                    60*        75.00     0*A        85W        90."0      95.00      95*        95.00      9500      95.00       5.00
' NFWLNSFOROIDHOJE                          *          0               0          0    a          0          0          0         0          0          0
AlA XSIZEASI COST& PRICE CALCUtATIOM--.----- --
: (STAS%SALESPRICE 0                      79."0      79.10      79.00      79.00      79.00      9n00      90.eo      9000        0.0       90.00     9"W
)IR.SALES CSJH1SS RlaCE0 10                           3I         1          10t        ISO        300        100        100       t00        309        1W
VO)T IN  SE                                   0               0          0          0          0          0         0               0          0          0
.iNF. YEAR LEASE                              0         O          0          0          0          0          *                    0          0          0
CSI IRCVDOFSLSPRIcCES                        26         28        23         28         28         28         2          29        28         28         28
'ISE OFSALES?RKICE                           72        72         72         72         72         72         72         72        72         72         72
IWO YEAR LEASE0                                         0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0
(CSifRCVDOFSLS PRCE%                         24        24         24         24         24         24         24         24        24         24         24
1I3SEOFSALES PRICE %                         76         76        76         76         76         76         76         76        76         76         76                                                     1
i IREE YEAR IEASE                            O     0          0               0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0
GCSHRCVDOF SPRICE00                          20        3          20         20         20         20         20        20         20         20         20
T ISE OFSALESMC2E S                          a         8          80 eo                            80 se  s0                       80    eS0             s0                                                     0
DMi PRO & UCOHR AS133                       --_ ._.                                                                                                                                                              I
+Additn         S                                       0          0          0          0          0          0               0               0 O
Re&-fio     mlDepr)s                         0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
UINUAL PROVN FOR DD *                         2          2         2          t          3          1          1          1         1          I          t
Raedwim         S                            O          0    0          0          0          0          0                          0          0          0
.EASE I 
intam  Rate    %                           146        34.00     14.00      14.00      34.00      14.00      140       14.00      14.00      14.00      14.0
rn.. so Car       %                      1o0.0      100.00     1o0        100.00     100*0      100.00    10O0*      100*6      100.00     100.00     100.
dro  EfIidmL7   0                         "A.00      95.00      g0         9600       960o0      96.       98.00      98.00      D00        980        960
-.EASE2YEARS                                         -
tre RsRe    %                              14J0      14.0       14.00      14.00      14.0       14.00      14.0      14.0       14.00      14.00      14.0
Iii     Cumg   0                         100.00     100.0      100.0      1000o      100*O      100D    100*6        Io0o       100.00     100.00     10.0
-dm Ellq    %                             "0.00      95.00      960s0    9sse     .00 56U0                 96. 0e     9t.00       96.00      sUD. 9
.FASE 3YlEARS            ---- -   ---
tntew   Rest    0                          14J6      14.00      14.00      14.00      14*6       14.00      14.00      14.00     14.00      14.00      14.
r>dmoC            00                     100*       100.00     100.00     1 0*D      10*O       100*0      100.00    100*       100.0o     100.00     1O00*
2o1. Ejd7   %                             "AD        "AO        960        960        960        96o0o 96.0              90       8.00      9.00       9
HXFXCUITVE1flAFF HOUSES
-Araf  Rage      %                         14.70      14.70     14.70      14.7D      14.70      14.70      14.70      14.70     14.70      14.70      14.70
Deprrehda.    0%                           3.0        3J6        3.0        30D        3aD0       3.00       30        3*         3.00       300        3.00                                                     O
elctiokEvim  ldm   00                          100  100        300.00     100.t0     100*0      100.00     300*     100.00     100.00     100.00     100.40
; 'r lNvESr<1Y               -    --t------ - -



411. NEW DEVEI.O?MFNTs EX('[IFr F.xMnrnivE HSUSF5- -.-.---............      ----... -----------.-.-.-.-.*---.---.--.--...-----
* WIP NEW tNVESIMErr                       9        36         48        48        48        56        67         67        67        67         67
SALESOSEIJ.PRIMl                          4         26        27         27        2         27        33         33        33        33        33
UlASE5 YR6SEU. PR                          0         A          4         4         4         4         4          4         4          4         4
*1I-ASE2YRS)SEI.l.PR                       0         Is        21        21        21        21        25         25         25        25        25
I.IzASE3YRSeSELU.PR                       0          8        22         22        22        22        27         27        27        27        27
MORTGAGFS   SEIUL PR                      8          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0
'40  IN USE                                 0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0
XI(ITrnVEh STAFF RFiNTAl.3io1iIs. . .          - .    -... -.... -. --.*..
WIP Nl.W INVEMSII.NT                     31        40         0          0         0         0         0          0      *0           0         0
TRANSRENTAL  c COST                       O         84         0         0          0         0         0         *          0         0         0
Intertl R.tle    '                       7.56      7.50      7.50       7.50      7.50      7 50       7 50      7.50      7 50      7 so      7 SO
Ila" b-tifwns  '7                      ItlO      t000    too.to       1o.00.,    100.00    1000     100.00    1OO.      10000    10000      woos
:; Z.flImc     '7                      1s.*0    1001e0      M6OO      100.0     100.00    10000      1001.0    10000      10000     50000    10000
*NcWWI stnis   S                          52         29       14         II        20        30         so        66        89        119       I%N
mv-r I  o.4-ANs  *   * %- *                    -       -
Imicmt Ratc  '7                          9.0o      9.06      90         910       90        900        9.00      900       900        900      90o
lSujmo (ITCS7                            3.96      19        4.30      4<A        5.00      540       s5o        6.30      680       740        4oo
:.4ml.3me,ct2                          100.09    50010      110."    161       10000     100.00    loo1o0      00.00     50000    10000      l0oo0
#Nrwiljm                                  50         0         6          0         0         0          0         0         0          0        0
:) V HANK IOANS ---... ------------------------------------------------- -
3atmiIRate  1                            8,a        to        610       8S        8.0oo     8.00       sao       800        8.00      g 8O      800
IrandIto m7t'7                           3140      19        436        4*        5.00      5.40       5.80      6.30      680        7.40     800
:;I*rofmeetv                           16."      100.0      I"        5.0       100.09 1eo00         100.00 M00.80  l00.o  300o0    100.00    l0000
*N.I A                                     0         0         0          6         0         0          6         0         0         0         0
IXN OAN                 ......... - -----..---.-     
bali Rae  %                              90        9.00       90        90        90.0      9.00       9.00      9.00       9.60      9.00      900
rF to Cmm el                             0.0       0.00       4*        sm        510       5.40      s51        6.30      60         7.40      So0                                                  I
:,Cc*  tMgicv%                            566       10o 0  I00          l00        100       to     o   0         300       loe       I00       Ro0                                                  Un
*N.wlmm                                    32        32         0                   0          0         0          0         0         0         0                                                  0
DA )CREDrT/POOI .-        ----- .      ..--.---.-.-..-.. . ___._____-
I[emo Roe  %                             0.00       610        AJ       00        0.00      000        o.00       o6.0      *0.       0.00      000
rtoCnmu                                  6J        0.O       610         .        o 0.00    0.0o       6.00      0.00      0 0       0.00      000
tw mEia                                  0.        0.00       0.        0.6       0.60      600        0.00      010        6.00      0.00      000
t New                                      0         0          6                   0          0         0          0 °                 0         0
MIISOCLLIUlF.S . ALL         --------------------.
*Adinn                                     0          0         6         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0
Redmtim                                    0         0         6                    0         0          0         0         0         0         0
13UCS tXtitO  LOANS (Si) --------- ------------- - ---.    ---   -- ---- ---.-...-. ----............
*Adiiw                                     6          0         0         0                   0         0          0         0         0         0
Reiiuio6 0                                                     0          0         0         0          0 O                 0         0         0
Rask                              150       52.       2l.        I2.       5         12.5  1250  12.50    52.5      52.50     12.50     32.50
PA.DE CAtlTAL -.- ------------
*Aiui                                       6         0         6         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0
ISIDIE-ES --------- -     -....-...................----- - __
*AMimi_                                     0         6         0         6         0          0         0          6         0         0         O
SLAUI                                                                                                                                                                                               '.K
*Addik0                                               0         0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0 O
Redoiom                                    0         6          *         a 0       0         0 o        0°0                                      0                                                061
4 INMISTRAT1V:  XJCPIiNSES.------------------------.--.--.---..----------- -- - _ -
Pe& cnEzpe.se                            I5.66    5136       2136      23.46     23.46      23.46     23.46      23.46     23.46     23.46     2346
4a2ii weflepcr                           229        229       229       229                  229       2.29      229        229       129       2 29
WIOT  JUSE                                  *0                       0              0          0         0          0         0         a         0
irlEWIPsALFS& RJNDINMCAt.CUI.               0         0         0                   C          0         0          0         *         0         0



ANNEX 9
- 51 -                            Page 1
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Financial Sector & Participating Banks
The Financial Sector Setting
1.        General.  Vanuatu has the most developed financial system among the
South Pacific island countries. The financial sector comprises the Reserve
Bank of Vanuatu (RBV), three commercial banks which are subsidiaries or branch
offices of foreign banks; the Development Bank of Vanuatu; the recently
established National Commercial and Trading Bank of Vanuatu (formerly the
Vanuatu Cooperative Savings Bank); the National Provident Fund, a finance
company, and a number of insurance companies and credit unions.
2.        The financial sector also comprises an offshore financial center.
While the center is important for local employment and government revenue, its
financial interaction with the local economy is small--mainly through the
service industries. Its exempt offshore institutions (over 100 banks,
financial institutions and insurance companies) are precluded from conducting
local business.   However, some limited center funds are deposited in foreign
exchange in local banks and improve the country's overall liquidity, but do
not add to the availability of domestic funds for local investment.
Nevertheless the center is estimated to contribute about 10 percent of GDP.
3.        Reserve Bank of Vanuatu.  The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) is
gradually assuming most traditional central bank functions within the country,
including currency issue, cheque clearing, banker to the Government, manager
of international reserves, monetary policy and lender of last resort. Prior
to 1988, the RBV relied on informal guidelines to regulate the banking sector
and guide monetary policy, but this became difficult to implement, and in
early 1989 the RBV delinked the Vatu from the SDR and set a new linkage with a
basket of undisclosed trading currencies; at the same time RBV began to
introduce regulations to the banking system. At present, financial
institutions cannot conduct retail trading; hold more than 25 percent of their
paid-up capital in equity investments; acquire real estate (other than for
their own operations); lend or guarantee 25 percent of their paid-up capital
and reserves; or lend unsecured more than 300,000 Vatu or 1 percent of their
paid-up capital and reserve to their directors or their related interests.
Prior to 1988 commercial bank deposits with RBV were made on a voluntary
basis, without specific deposit requirements. As a result, these balances
varied sharply and in 1988 the RBV introduced a 10 percent (of deposits)
statutory non-interest bearing reserve requirement. Deposits from exempt
companies, trusts and local companies not conducting business in Vanuatu which
exist solely for the benefit of non-residents are exempt from this statutory
requirements. More recently the RBV allowed banks to invest up to 50 percent
of these reserves in 90 day treasury bonds.
4.        Over the last several years RBV has, with IMF assistance, developed
monetary policy tools and strengthened its supervision role and prudential
regulations. Two of the three commercial banks are locally incorporated and



- 52 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 2
are subsidiaries of large international banking institutions, and the third is
a branch of an international banking institution. While the three commercial
banks do not pose much of a supervision burden on RBV, given the strength of
these banks and the close supervision by their parent institutions.
Supervision remains an important RBV function, especially in view of GOV's
decision to launch the National Commercial and Trading Bank of Vanuatu
(para. 5).
5.        Other Government Financial Institutions.  The Development Bank of
Vanuatu was established in 1979 to promote rural and industrial development,
with emphasis on the processing of raw materials, to provide employment and
training and to improve the balance of payments. The financial resources of
the Development Bank of Vanuatu consist mainly of foreign grants and
concessionary loans. However, the bank's portfolio (particularly in industry
loans) is 27 percent in serious arrears. Other key players in the sector
includes a. the new National Commercial and Trading Bank of Vanuatu) with the
principal role of mobilizing rural savings through a chain of 23 branches and
23,000 accounts; and b. the National Provident Fund, established in 1986,
which provides a social security system for all full time workers through
contributions amounting to 6 percent of salaries and investing these funds
mainly in fixed-term deposits with commercial banks, in government bonds and,
more recently, in the National Housing Corporation (with a Government
guarantee).
Participating Intermediaries
6.        Comercial Banks - General.  Vanuatu's three commercial banks (ANZ,
BIV and Westpac) predominate the domestic banking system, in terms of asset
holdings, accounting for 80 percent of assets held by the system. Total
assets of the commercial banks have shown healthy growth rates, averaging
about 28 percent in 1989. Commercial banks provide a full range of
traditional banking services. In addition, each bank provides banking
services to its offshore clients as well as those of Vanuatu's Financial
Center members. In recent years there has been a marked degree of
rationalization within the sector with two other international banks selling
their Vanuatu subsidiaries to two of the existing banks. Unfortunately this
has somewhat reduced competition among the banks.
7.        Besides the regulations and controls mentioned earlier (para 3) the
RBV has in the past used interest rate ceilings (1981-82) and maximum interest
spreads (1983-85) to regulate the financial system. Other controls still in
force include a ceiling on commercial bank's average lending rates and
directives which give priority to the productive sectors, tourism and export
promotion or import substitution. However, these controls are not enforced
and domestiz (Vatu) interest rates reflect international rates. However,
intrest rates on Vatu deposits are still low, limiting the amount of Vatu
deposits and thereby Vatu lending.
8.        Commercial Banks Activities.  Commercial banks are active in both
the domestic and offshore (non-resident) markets, and have about 76 percent of
their total non-fixed assets in foreign currencies.



ANNEX 9
- 53 -                            Page 3
Table 1: DISTRIBUTION OF COMMERCIAL BANK'S NON-FIXED ASSETS
BY CURRENCY (SEPTEMBER 1989)
Amount (in millions of Vatu)
in Vatu            in Foreign Currencies
Claims on Residents
Residents' Loans               4,258.7                           875.0
Subtotal (incl. others)    6,176.1                          1,406.0
Claims on Non-Residents
Head office & branches            -5.3                        10,273.0
Funds with Other Banks
& Financial Institution           0.0                         7,594.7
Non-Resident Loans                19.5                           588.8
Subtotal (incl. other)         17.1                        18456.5
Totals                    6,193.2                        19,862.5
Distribution                 23.8Z                           76.2Z
Source: Reserve Bank of Vanuatu, Quarterly Economic Bulletin 1989, pp.41.
9.        Commercial bank Vatu lending rates are generally divided into three
categories: commercial, housing and personal loans. Commercial loans are the
most prominent and available both through medium-term advances and traditional
overdrafts. These loans are mainly for trade finance, inventory funding and
working capital. Lending interest rates for each category can vary between
8.0 and 17.0 percent, and have remained constant for the past three years.
Generally, commercial loans to priority areas are in the middle to lower range
and other commercial loans in the higher range of interest rates. Similarly,
consumer lending, often secured by a fixed deposit, tends to be in the higher
range. Housing loans (mortgages) on the other hand, tend to carry interest
rates between 14 and 16 percent with maturities as long as 15 years in some
cases, but generally between 5 and 10 years.
10.       In terms of sectoral distribution of lending during 1985-89, the
largest share was for wholesale and retail business (averaging 22 percent)
followed by personal loans, (15 percent). Mining and manufacturing,
construction and tourism followed with 11, 8 and 5 percent of total lending,
respectively. Real estate lending represented about 7 percent of the total,
but there are significant differences between the three banks. Table 2 shows
the distribution of bank lending by sector over the 1985-1989 period.
11.       Vanuatu's commercial bank's deposit are primarily denominated in
foreign currency (Table 3).



Table 2: COMMERCIAL BANK LENDING BY SECTOR AND CURRENCY, 1985-89
in VATU million
in VATU                           in Foreign Currency                           Total
1985    1986   1987    1988   1989   1985   1986   1987    1988   1989   1985   1986   1987    1988   1989
Agr. A Fisher       4.2      3.9    3.1    3.7    2.7    9.0    6.8    1.8    3.8    3.2    4.7    4.1    2.9               3.7    2.8
Mining & Mfg.       14.2   17.1    11.8    9.8    9.1    0.7        -       1.7    0.7    0.6   12.7   15.1   10.1    8.3    7.7
Touri;m             4.7      3.0    4.0    4.5    7.3       -       0.4    0.1      1.8   11.9    4.1    2.7    3.3    4.1    8.1
Entertainment       2.4     2.1    2.4    1.7       1.1    0.2    -         -       -       0.1    2.1    1.8    2.0        1.6    0.9
Transport            6.3    6.1    4.1    2.4    2.5        -       0.8    -        0.5    2.7    4.7    5.5    3.4         2.1    2.5
Construction        7.4    6.2    7.6   11.1   10.2    5.2    8.4    2.4    0.8   11.1    7.1    6.5    6.6                 9.5   10.6
Governmant           5.4     5.4    4.4    3.6    3.3    4.7    3.6    0.3          -       0.3    6.3    6.2    3.7        3.0    2.8
State corp.          1.0    2.5    2.2    0.5    0.4        -       1.4    0.1    0.3    0.0    0.9    2.4    1.9    0.5    0.3                a
Financial Inst.     0.1      1.6    3.2    0.4    0.7   11.8    0.2    4.8   23.6    6.8            1.5    1.4    3.5    4.1        1.7       un
Prof & Services     4.3      3.5    5.8    7.4    6.2   32.5    2.9    0.2    2.0    1.9    7.6    3.4    4.9    6.5    5.4
Housing A Land      7.9      7.2    6.6    6.0    6.4    0.2    2.9    1.3   17.2   10.9    7.0    8.7    5.6               7.8    7.3
Distribution       24.1   24.8   21.4   21.0   18.1   11.9    4.4   63.5   25.6   18.6   22.7   22.3   26.7   21.7   18.5
Other Personal     12.9    9.8   14.5   18.3   19.6   18.0   53.8    4.5    7.4   13.9   13.5   14.9   12.8   16.6   18.8
Miscellaneous       6.1     7.0    9.1    9.6   11.5    6.8   15.9   29.5   16.6   12.1    6.1    8.0   12.6   10.6   12.6
Total          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Vatu            3,098.9 3,324.7 3,605.7 3,801.7 4,268.8  403.1  441.9  707.6  715.6  876.0 8,502.0 3,768.8 4,313.3 4,517.3 6,133.8
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Reosrve Bank of Vanustu, Quarterly Economic Bulletin, Septmiber 1989.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Table 3: DISTRIBUTION OF COMMERCIAL BANK'S LIABILITIES
BY CURRENCY (SEPTEMBER 1989)
Amount (Millions of Vatu)
Vatu           Foreign Currencies
Resident Deposit
Demand                                    2,082.9                  1,188.6
Savings                                      529.6                   113.2
Term                                      1,783.3                  7,545.3
Subtotal (incl. other)                    6,148.7                 10,599.8
Non-Resident Deposits
Demand                                        98.5                    62.7
Savings                                       48.2                    32.0
Term                                          65.4                 3,877.2
Head Office                                    0.5                   394.7
Interbank                                     39.6                   319.1
Subtotal (incl. other)                       252.3                 9,054.9
Totals                                     6,401.0                19,654.7
Distribution                                  24.5Z                   75.5Z
Source:   Reserve Bank of Vanuatu, Quarterly Economic Bulletin, September
1989, pp 41.
As can be seen from the table even local residents have a preference for
holding their deposits in foreign currencies. Vatu deposits accounted for
only 24.5 percent of bank liabilities. Furthermore the Vatu deposits tend
generally to be of much shorter term than the foreign currency deposits.
Fixed deposits over one year are very small (less than 1 percent) of total
fixed deposits.
12.       Given the structure of the deposit rates for Vatu deposits
(Table 4), the preference to hold foreign currency deposits is quite evident.



- 56-                               ANNEX 9
Page 6
Table 4: COMMERCIAL BANK DEPOSIT RATES
(September 1989)
Vatu                  Local (Vatu)             Foreign (A$)
Savings              2? to 4?                     ----
1 month              4? to 82                15.9? to 16.4%
2 - 6 months         6? to 8Z                     ----
Above 6 months        7% to 8Z                     ----
Source: Reserve Bank of Vanuatu, Quarterly Economic
Bulletin, September 1989, p.42.
The foreign deposit rates vary and tend to approximate the international rates
the larger the deposit and the longer the term. As can be seen from the
table, the Vatu deposit rates are considerably less attractive than foreign
deposits. In fact, interest rates on local deposits are low and should be
higher to generate the growth in Vatu deposits necessary to support term
lending. Due to the shortage of Vatu funds in the system and the short-term
nature of the deposits, Vatu funds are virtually unavailable on a long-term
basis for mortgage or other term lending, except in limited quantities without
the banks incurring excessive term-transformation risks. The reason for the
low deposit rates being paid. however, appears to be connected with the high
spreads demanded by banks. While the average cost of Vatu ftnds for
commercial banks for term deposits is 7.2 percent, the Vatu lending rates are
8 to 17 percent. This indicates that local lending rates are still marginally
to significant positive. More competition within the domestic banking system
would lead to the higher interest rates necessary. The project is expected to
generate an increased competition for Vatu deposits for housing finance which
will contribute to the growth of Vatu deposits.
13.       Participation in the HRF is open to eligible commercial banks or
financial institutions, subject to the eligibility criteria set out in
Annex 10. On this basis, all three private commercial banks in Vanuatu
(Banque Indosuez Vanuatu Ltd., Westpac Banking Corporation and ANZ Bank
(Vanuatu) Ltd.] which are either subsidiaries or branches of large
international banks, have been found eligible to participate.
14.       Banque Indosuez Vanuatu Ltd. (BIV) is a subsidiary of Banque
Indosuez (Paris) which had assets in 1988 of about French Francs 292 billion,
and a vast network of subsidiaries and branches covering the entire globe.
BIV is organized a3 any commercial bank and has a branch in Luganville. BIV
has shown a steady growth in assets since its inception, and is owned
20 percent by the Government. Both BIV's profitability and portfolio quality
are good. In terms of assets BIV is the largest of the three private
commercial banks in Vanuatu.
15.       Westpac Banking Corporation is a branch of the parent company with
the same name. The parent company by year-end 1990 had total assets of
Australian A$107 billion, with a loan portfolio of A$64 billion. WBC's



- J7 -                              ANNEX 9
Page 7
capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio is about 10 percent, Well above the
prudential guideline of 8 percent set by the Reserve Bank of Australia. WBC
is headquartered in Australia. In its home markets covering Australia, New
Zealand, Papua New Guinea and the South West Pacific, WBC offers a full range
of banking and financial services. Beyond its home markets, specialized
services are provided through its many operations covering 28 countries. The
Westpac branch in Vanuatu has now grown to a total staff of 65, the majority
being ni-Vanuatu. The branch has several small agencies in the country. Its
financial statements are consolidated with those of the Westpac subsidiary in
Suva (Fiji) and falls under its overall supervision.
16.       ANZ Bank (Vanuatu) Ltd. is a iubsidiary of the Australian and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., headquartered in Australia. This large
international banking group had total assets of A$84.7 billion in 1989, which
was 15 percent over the previous year. Operating after tax profits during
1989 were A$722 million, 43 percent higher than the previous year. The ANZ's
Group risk-weighted capital ratio increased to 8.7 percent in 1989, which was
above the required 8 percent set by the Reserve Bank of Australia.



ANNEX 10
-58-                             Page 1
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Guidelines for Housing Rediscount Facility
Objectives
1.        The main objective of the Housing Rediscount Facility (HRF) is to
assist the low-to-middle income ni-Vanuatu (citizens) households to obtain
credit to purchase serviced lots and build their own dwelling. While the main
focus would be to provide financing to National Housing Corporatior 'NHC) site
beneficiaries.  Funds may also be provided for others outside NHC   ces who
meet the credit guidelines stipulated herein. However, HRF fune vould only
be available to non-NHC beneficiaries depending on the outcome of the January
1992 review of the facility's performance. The HRF will operate through the
participating Intermediaries (PIs).
Foreign Exchange Risk
2.        The Government of Vanuatu will bear the foreign exchange risk of the
World Bank credit and will pay any charges connected therewith.
On-lending Credit Risk
3.        The credit risk for individual loans to final beneficiaries will be
borne by the PIs, for which it will receive a spread (para. 7).
On-lending Interest Rates
4.        World Bank funds would be lent to the Government at the
International Development Association's (IDA) standard rate and terms.
5.        The IDA funds would be passed on to the Reserve Bank of Vanuatu
(RBV) for eligible loans at the prevailing RBV Secl"re Lending Rate (SLR) less
0.5 percent to cover RBV's administration costs.
6.        The RBV will rediscount loans submitted to it by PIs at the
prevailing SLR, provided these rediscounting requests meet the eligibility
criteria stipulated herein.
7.        PIs loans to beneficiaries will be at an interest rate mutually
agreed between the PI and the beneficiary, which reflects market conditions.
Such agreed rate will reflect the cost of the rediscounted funds to the PI and
ak spread to cover administrative costs and the credit risk, to be borne by
the PI. The actual spread to be charged will be established by the PI based
on assessment of the costs and risks indicated in this paragraph, but it is
anticipated that such a spread would range between 4 and 5 percent. The
onlending interest rate to the beneficiary, however, will fluctuate in line
with the SLR.



59                             ANNEX 10
Page 2
Rediscounting Maturity Term and Amount
8.        Only loans with maturities between 10 and 20 years would be eligible
for rediscounting under this facility,
9.        Eligible loans will be rediscounted up to 75 percent of the face
amount.
10.       Funds provided under this facility will carry the same maturity term
as the rediscounted loan.
11.       In case of prepayment by the final beneficiary, the ?I- will also
prepay the corresponding funds to the RBV. There shall be no prepayment
penalty to the beneficiary or to the PI.
12.       The PIs shall execute a standing order authorizing RBV to debit, on
a monthly basis, their accounts in the books of the RBV with monthly capital
repayments and interest payments due on rediscounted funds.
Elipit4e Final Beneficiaries
13.       Only Vanuatu residents will be eligible to participate in the HRF.
14.       Only households with annual income up to 80,000 VT per month as
establiched and reviewed from time to time by the NHC may benefit from this
facility.
15.       Beneficiaries must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the PIs,
evidence of ability to repay the loan, provide the necessary security and the
downpayment.
16.       The amount of security to be provided by individual beneficiaries
will be determined by the PIs. For NHC sites, the maximum downpayment
required will be one-third of the cost of the property.
17.       Only beneficiaries who do not currently own an urban dwelling will
be eligible to benefit from the HRF.
18.       Funds shall be available under the HRF only for serviced lot
purchases and for the construction of single-family-owner-occupied dwellings.
19.       Only loans to NHC beneficiaries would be eligible for rediscounting
under this facility. Notwithstanding the foregoing, loans to non-NHC
beneficiaries may become eligible for rediscounting under this facility
depending on the outcome of the January 1992 review.
Approvals
20.       The HRF will be administered by RBV.  Refinancing decisions will be
made by a committee of representatives of the NHC, the Ministry of Finance and
Housing including the Accountant General Department.



ANNEX 10
- 60 -Page 3
21.       The committee members shall includet  the General Manager and Chief
Accountant of the NHC; the First Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and
Housing and a representative of the Accountant-General's Department.
22.       The RBV will provide refinancing on loan portfolios approved by the
Committee.
23.       Applications for approvals shall be made by the PI on a monthly
basis, provided the total package of loan portfolio presented for
rediscounting at any one time is not less than 3,000,000 VT.
24.       A decision on a package of loan portfolio submitted by a PI shall be
made and comunicated to the RBV within two calendar weeks of the date of
submission.
Participating Intermediaries
25.       Only PIs who have been appraised by Government in consultation with
IDA and found acceptable on the basis of interest in the facility, financial
soundness, management capabilities, organization and procedures, branch
network and staffing shall be eligible to participate in the HRF.
26.       PIs must be in continued compliance with all the banking regulations
and monetary policies issued by the RBV from time to time, and government will
certify such compliance on an annual basis to IDA.
27.       PIs are required to provide audited financial statements, and other
data as required by RBV from time to time.
28.       RBV will monitor on a quarterly basis the operation of the HRF, in
particular the onlending interest rates and fees being charged by the PIs to
ensure that these are market determined and that the objectives of the HRF are
maintained.
29.       The number of PIs may be expanded from time to time; however, new
participants will need to meet the eligibility requirements set out below.
Eligibility Criteria for Selection of PIs
30.       When assessing the eligibility of potential PIs, the following
criteria would be taken into accounts
(a)  Continued compliance with all RBV monetary policy guidelines issued
from time to time, and where applicable, compliance with relevant
banking and business licences;
(b)  Appraisal by Government in consultation with IDA and acceptability
on the basis of interest in the fascility, financial soundness,
management capabilities, organization and procedures, branch network
and staffing;
(c) Strict adherence to the HRF Guidelines.



- 61 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 4
31.       The continued eligibility of a PI would be monitored by IDA
periodically on the basis of the reports furnished by RBV as stipulated in the
HRF Guidelines. These reports will be provided by the PI to RBV on a
quarterly basis and will include terms and conditions of each loan which has
been rediscounted under the HRF.



ANNEX 11
-62 -                                               Page 1 of 3
VIUATU   AFFORDABILITY AL1YSIS                   26-Sep-90  file: AFFPJUON.iKI
(Mortgp  payent as a percent of h"usehold income)
wrest Rate:      12.00S    tere:   15 years
Paent:          33.30S
a  2 of Hl inc    33$ maxim       189  einim
mnts in Uatu
_     _    -- --   - _ -  -    _--               _  _ _  -  _  -__-_-__-0                                _  6   _    _  _     .
Price  Own Pat  Loan   Month lonths    Monthly   honthly Payent as Percent of these Monthly Fuily Incoes:
-   (K'000) (1000)  Aount  pay   save         Payment  10000 IS000 20000 25000 30000 3500 40000 4500050000 55000 60000 65000
250     83   166,750  180      42       2,001:   202 -         -     ---    -                              --    -     --
308    103 205.36 180          42       2,466: 25  ------                               --    --    -            -     --
399 133 266,133 180 42                  3,194: 322 21S                                                --  --
504    168   336,168  180      42       4,035:   --    27S   202   --    -                                       --    -
585    95   390,195  180       42       4,63:    - 312  23   19            -         -     --     -
670    223   446,890  180      42       5,363 :          --    272   21:          -                  --
937    312   624,979  160      2        7,501 :---             -     30t  25    21S   19    --    -         - -
1,022  340 691,674 180  42                  ,191:  ---   33S m  23 202  18    ---                                   --
1,556    518 1,037,852  180      42      12,456:                       - 312   28*   252   232   212   192
1,900    633 1,2S7,300  180      42      15,210:                    --    --    302   282   252   232
Monthly Family Incomes:  10000100 20000 20  30000 35000 40000 45000 50000 S000 60000 65000
eret Rate:       14.002    term:   15 yeas
mpayment:       33.302
I otf  H inc    33 maxim    18 minivA
aunts in Uatu
Price  Dwn Pat   Loan   Month Nonths    Monthly   Monthly Pyenat a  Parcnt of thin  Monthly Fuily Incom:
W(I'OO) (W'OO0)  baunt   pay   sve        Pant  1000015000 20000 25000 000035000 40000 4500000 S            S0 6000  65000
250 83 1,750 180 37    2,221: 22S                                -  -   -   -   -    -    -  --  -  -
308 103 205,43 180 37                   2,736: 27S 18S  -
399    133  266,133  180       37       3,544:   -       24                                          -      -   -       -
504   168 336,168  190         37       4,4?7:       -- 30       S 22  t   -      -     -
55 1I 390,195 190  37    5,1iX:    -  26  21  --                                             -             --
670 223 446,890190  3?    5,51: ---  30S 224  20t   --   -- 
937    312   624,979  10O      37       8,323:  -          -   -       -   29 S   242  21     2 1   92 -     -     -     -
1,022    340   681,674 190    37          9,079:--    -- -                   30  26    23    20    1          -   -- -
1,556    518 1,037,352  190      37      13,822:  -          -     -     -     -      -     -   31S   282   252   232   21t
1,900    633 1,267,300  190      37      16,8?7:   --    --312   28S   26S
monthly           -mu*:  10o ISO150  20000 25000 30000 350040000 40        50000 55000 6000065000



-63 -                                              ADN   11
Page 2 of 3
Iotat t Rate:    16.00S    tabr:   IS years
Oarment:           33.30S
Tas I of NH inc    33S   nxia    18S *inims
Amnts in Uatu.                                                              Ut  120: UStI
Price  Dwn Pat  Loan  Month Nonths   Monthly   Monthly Pament as Percent of thee Monthly Fuily Incomes:
Type  (K'000) (K'000) bount  pay   se           Payent 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 350040 004         S000   S00     6000  6000065000
1.          250     83 166,750  180    34           2,449:: 24        --- -           --    -     --
C.           308   103   205,436  190    34         3,017:  30S   20S   -           --     -  
2.           399    133  266,133  180    34         3,909:  -    26S   20S   -          -     -     -     -     -     -       -   -
3.           S0   169  336,168 190         34       4,937: -    33S  25S  20S   -             -     -    
5.           585  195   390,135  190    34          5,71:  -        --    29S   23S   192---
6.           670 223 446,890 190 34    6,563: - --  332 26S 22S19*-----                                                         --
9.           937 312 624,979 190 34    9,179: -  -  -                                 31S 26* 23S 20S 19S -  -  -
10.         1,022    340  681,674 80    34          10,012:  -    -    ----    -             29    25    22   20    18 - --
12.        1,556    519 1,037,852  180      34      15,243:  -       -           --        --      -           30   28S   25S   23
14.         1,900    633 1,267,300 180      34      18,613: --    -31* 29S
Family Incoms:             10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35 40000 4          S0 000  5500060000 65000
Notes:
l. Up to     33Sot eonthly fuily income  y be ava  ble to r            a    loa.
2. Tarpet faily incm    10,000 to Ut65,000  equl to          SU up to   52 .
3.  Nonths to Save' is the down paymtnt divided by the nor Il onthly payment.
Higher income participants will be able to sae the minima do  pmnt is a shorter period.
4. Does not include monthly or annual chres for war, electricity, inaw         e, grwd    rent, an  other servics.
Hawing Solutions Offered by the Progrn:
I Serviced 2602 plot with VIP latrin                                   1.    2S0 19455
2 (1) plus 2 bay P9il kit, no slab.                                    2.    393 250+143
3 (2) plus slab                                                        3.    402S0+254.5
4  Serviced 2602 plot with 9otic Task aid soaka*  (no  C or hookup) 4.    30  195+113
5 (1) plus 3-by PO  kit with slab                                      S.    602 2504352       S.    515
6 (5) with Septic sytm  U160,000                                       6.    660 3064352       6.    670
7 (1) plus 102 owe (tmete)                                            7.  1,037 250+75.5    9.    93?
8 (7) plus 10.2 slab exteion                                           9.  1,099 250+44.9   10.  1,022
9 (t) with Sptic spste                                                 9.  1,09  306+766.5  12.  1,SS
10 20.2 corel/sel on 260.2 plot with sptic syste                       10.   1,36  30W997.5  14.  1,900
It 40.2 core/shell oo 260b2 plot with VIP
12 (11) with septic syste                                              12.         3064
13 (12) with exterior finish
14 (13) with intror partition  aid elctricity UT 1,900,000             14.



VANUATU HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Composite of five Oatl souress
CUMULATIVE FRACTION OF EARNERS (-VT90000                 100%
100%                                                93_%I  i  -9 3
90%-         t         t--I-     I       53t6%        ---
80%    -
80%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
70%  -
60%--  - -
50% _                                              ....
30% _ ...
1~ /%
20%   -        v..._ .....----------t-- -   - ..-.-.--.---
0      1i5000    30000    45000    60000    75000    90000
MONTHLY INCOME (VATU)
File: CUMINC



Page 1 of 4
- 65 -
09/25/90
ECONOIIC ANALYSIS - FRES UOTA NORTH PHASE:I                                   IRR-FUNI
- -  -  -- -- -    -  -- - - - - -- - - - -  -  -- - - - - - - - - -    -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -- - - -- - - - -
LOUEST COST SOLUTION     260 c2 plot, incremental shelter development                  revised: 25 Sep 30
:--      -COSTS-(C000)----.---  BENEFITS -('000)--------  NET    Shelter
Yeer  Land Civil House Maint Total  Imputd Consolid. Adj.  Total BENEFIT  Iprovets
Uorks Constr  3t Costs    Rent   Factor Rent Benefits
1      35   110   40    1    IB6        d4    1.000    84     8A  (102)   WAKESHIFT MITH NEW SKANTLINGS
2                        1      1       84    1.010    85      85     94             SUIP
3                        1      1       84    1.020    B6      86     84
4                        1      ,       89    1.040    87      87     86   INSTALL SEPTIC TANK
5                 244    9    252       96    1.060   102     102  (151)  UPGRADES TO 2-SAY KIT + SKMA
6                  20    9     29       96    1.100   106     106     76   INTERNAL PARTITIONS, ETC.
7                  20   10    30        96    1.140  109      109    90
9                 100   13   113       108    i.190   129     129     16   ADDS THIRD BAY I SLAB
9                  10  13    23        108    1.230   133     133    110
10                 109  16   124        120    1.250   150     150    26
11                  10  17    27        120    1.265   152     152    125    )
12                  10  17    27        120    1.280   154     154    127
13                  10  17    27        120    1.290   155     155    128    )
1                   10  17    27        120    1.295   155     155    128    )incre-
15                  10  18    29        120    1.305   157     157    129   )mntel
i6                  10  19    28        120    1.310   157     157    129    )improve-
17                  10  18    29        120    1.320   158     158    130    )ments
la                  10  19    29        120    1.327   159     159    131    )
19                  10  19    29        120    1.333   160     160    131    )
20                  SO   20    70       120    1.336   160     160     90    replace orig. ROOF NATERIAL
21                  10  21    31        120    1.338   161     161    130    )
22                  10  21    31        120    1.340   161     161    130    )
23                  10  21    31        120    1:342   161     161    130    )
24                  10  22      32      120.  1.344   161      161    130    )incre-
25                  10  22    32        120    1.345   161     161    129   )mmntal
26                  10  22      32      120    1.34    162     162    129    )ieprove-
27                  10  23      33      120    1.347   162     162    129   ).not
28                  10  23      33      120    1.348   162     162    129    )
29                  10   23     33      120    1.349   162     162    129    )
30 add lot residual val 23      23      120    1.350   162     162    139   no capital expend.
30th yr, si/rn 35
IRR:   60.0S         0.9
_~~~ ~~~~~ .._.._                      ....



ANNEX 12
- 66 -                                               Page 2 of 4
MEDIAN SOLUTION           260 *2 plot, formal core with slab extension and septic systee           25 Sep 90
----COS'S-------------:--- BENEFITS -----------------   NET    Shelter
Year  Land Civil House Naint Total  lmputed Consolid. Adj.   Total BENEFIT  Iprovets
Works Constr  3S Costs  Rent        Factor  Rent Benefits
1      35   110   874   26  1,046       156    1.000   156      156  (890)   PERtAPENT CORE ON 20H2 SLAB + SEPTIC TAN
2                  11   27      39      156    1.010   158      158    120
3                  11   27      38      164    1.020   167      167    129
4                        27     27      164    1.040   170      170    143
5                  140   31    171      172    1.060   182      182      11    ROOF EXTENSION 13 SQ.N. OvER SLAB
6                  22   32      54      172    1.100   189      189    135
7                        32     32      172    1.140   196      196    164
a                 405   4      449      234    1.190   278      278   (170)   ADO 20 SQ.N.SLAB, COLUMNS I ROOF
9                   22   45     67      234    1.230   288      298    221
10                  22   45      67      281    1.250   351      351    294
11                       45      45      281    1.265   355      355    310
12                       45      4s      281    1.280   359      359    314
13                        45     45      291    1.290   362      362    317
14                       45      45      281    1.295   364      364    319
15                        45     45      281    1.305   366      366    321
16                        45     45      281    1.310   368      368    323
17                        45     45      281    1.320   371      371    325
19                       45      45      291    1.327   373      373    327
19                       45      45      281    1.333   374      374    329
20                        45     45      281    1.336   375      375    330
21                        45     45      281    1.338   376      376    331
22                        45     45      281    1.340  376       376    331
23                        45     45      281    1.342   377      377    332
24                        45   45        281    1.344  377       377    332
25                        45     45      281    1.345   378      378    332
26                        45     45      291    1.346   378      379    333
27                        45     45      281    1.347   378      378    333
28                        45     45      281    1.348  379       379    333
29                        45     45      291    1.349   379      379    334
30 dd lot ruidual vol 45         45      316    1.350   427      427    382
30th yr, w/ren   35
IRR:  17.6S         0.2



-M-  12
- 67 -                                                  Pag 3 of 4
HJESt COST SOLUTIWI   390 e2 plot, nearly finished formal houu with septic syste                   25 Sep 90
;-          COSTS-------------- BENEFITS   ----- --    ET    Shelter
Year   Land Civil House Naiftt Total  Imputed Comolid. Adj.  Total BENEFIT   Iprovts
'orks Constr   2S Costs Rent        Factor  Rent Benefits
-------         ---    ---------         ----------------- 
I      53   166 1,375   29  1,621        94    1.000    94       94 (1,527)  4OSQ.0. TYE III S8LTR I SU  TANK
2                 150   31    191       218    1.010   221      221     40    EXTERNAL MLLS
3                       31      31      218    1.020   223      223    192
4                 2s5   36    286       291    1.040   292    2M2        7    INTE . PMRTITIONI  I CEILINGS
s                        36     36      281    1.060   299      290    262
6                        36     36      281    1.100   209      309    273
7                        36     36      281    1.140   320      320    285
B                       36      36      281    1.190  334       334   299
9                        36     36      281    1.230  345       345    310
10                       X       36      291    1.250  351       351    316
11                       36      36      281    1.265  35        355   320
12                       36      36      291    1.290  359       359    324
13                       36      36      281    1.290  362        62   327
14                       36      36      281    1.295   364      364    322
15                       36      36      281    1.305   366      366    331
16                       26      36      281    1.310  368       368   332
17                       36      36      281    1.320   371      371    335
18                       36      36      281     .327  373       373    337
19                       36      36      281    1.333   374      374    339
20                        36     36      281    1.336   375      375    340
21                        36     36      281    1.338376         376340
22                       36       6      281   1.340   376       376    341
23                        36     6       281    1.342  377       37     341
24                         6     36      291   1.344377          377    342
25                        36     36      291    1.345378         378    342
26                         ;    36        21    1.346  379   378   342
27                       36      36      281    1.347   378      37m    343
28                       36      36      291    1.343VS          379   343
29                       36      26      281    1.349  379       379   343
30 add lot ridul  vel 36         36      334    1.350   461      451    415
30th y, vw/re     3
IRl:   14.n         0.20



- 68 -                                               Ann 12
PaF ^, of 4
CllGJTE W  LOU, 10I1M N10 HICH COST SOLUTIN                                                       rmised: 25 s   90
ibightd by projtsd pWticipatiom of incoa categoriOs
caposit
YO                                                                benefits
("eighted)
I                                                                    (710)
2                                                                      95
3                                                                     123
4                                                                     103
5                                                                      (9)
6                                                                     135
153
8                                                                     (35)
9                                                                     196
10                                                                    1I
11                                                                     247
12                                                                     250
13                                                                     2S2
14                                                                     253
is                                                                     255
16                                                                     256
17                                                                     259
is                                                                     260
19                                                                     261
20                                                                     247
21                                                                     262
22                                                                     262
23                                                                     26
24                                                                     26
25                                                                     263
26                                                                     263
27                                                                     263
23                                                                     263
29                                                                     26
30                                                                     302
le .5%       0.2



- 69-                             ANNEX 13
Page 1
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input
1.        The staff inputs indicatedl in the tahle below are in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of quarterly progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence etc. These routine requirements at Bank
headquarters are estimated to be about six staffweeks for FY92 and four
staffweeks per year thereafter. Staff inputs to field supervision are
indicated in Table 1. Accordingly, the total IDA supervision input is
estimated at about 14 staffweeks during FY92 and about 12 staffweeks during
FY93 through FY95.
GOV's Contribution to Supervision
2.        Progress reports will be submitted as follows:
(a)  in a simple format to be agreed with the coordinating and the
implementing agencies;
(b)  on a quarterly basis and within 30 days of the end of each quarter
with the first report for the period July through September 1991 due
by October 31, 1991;
(c)  prepared by NHC as coordinating agency using inputs from all other
implementing ag-ncies.
3.        Project monitoring and coordination is the responsibility of NPSO,
but for the purposes of this project NPSO would delegate the coordination and
reporting responsibilities to NHC as the key implementation agency. Project
review meetings with the participation of representatives of all implementing
agencies will be held 3-4 times a year and will be chaired by a senior
representative of NPSO.
4.        NHC, assisted where necessary by NPSO, will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions and for providing
information requested by missiors.



- 70-                              ANNEX 13
Page 2
Table 1. BANK SUPERVISION INPUT
Approximate                            Expected Skill                    Staff
Dates         Activity                Requirements                  Inputs (SW)
10/91        Supervision Mission       Technical/Institutional
(Project Launch and      Financial (Banking)              3.0
Workshop)
02/91        Supervision Mission       Technical & Financial            3.0
06/92        Supervision Mission       Tech/Inst. & Fin. (Banking)    2.0
(Review of NHC & HRF)
FY93 to      Three Supervision         Financial Analysis
FY95         Missions annually         (Banking Sector)                 8.0 per FY
(one annual review,      Engineering/Planning
and last mission to      Inst. Development
prepare PCR)



- 71-                            ANNZX 14
VANUATU
HOUSING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Protect File
Protect File
No.
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector.
F47271            Land Acquisition and Land Tenure in Vanuatu, Samuel
Scherer, October 1989
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project.
P30260            1. Project Document and UNCHS Consultants' Reports for
Assistance to the Housing Sector (UNDPIVAN/88/009),
1989.
F47272            2. Synthesis of Consultants' Reports, Eric Niels Peterson &
Assoc. October 30, 1989
F47273            3. Environmental Impact Assessment Study, Government of
Vanuatu (Colin Franklin). Septemnber 1990.
F49290            4. Port Vila Landfill Site Section Environmental
Assessment, December 1990.
C. Working Papers and Documents
F447274           1. Mission Report, Relocation of Port Vila Landfill Site,
Dr. M. Ogawa, WHO (PEPAS) September 27, 1990
P47275            2. Site plans for Fres Wata North and Lass Kraon project
sites; ESCAP/NHC
D. Government Documents
F47276            1. Port Vila Physical Plan, Port Vila Municipal Council,
1987
F47277            2. National Building Code for Vanuatu, September 1990
F47278            3. Home Building Manual for Vanuatu, September 1990
F47279            4. NHC, Five-Year Business Plan, 1990-94, November 1989
F47280            5. NHC, Staff Regulation and Scheme of Service, October
1990.
F47906            6. Republic of Vanuatu, Second Development Plan (0P2),
1987-1991.



dAP SECTION



