Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3448-1-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                            , 200_ 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3448-1-VN 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated                                              , 200_, entered into between 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
Sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 
16,400,000) (variously, “Additional Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in 
financing Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”).   
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year
 
Page  4
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the Project 
through MOT. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Additional RAP has been duly adopted by MOT and Ca Mau 
Province; and 
(b) 
The Additional RAP is legally binding on the Recipient and the Ca Mau 
Province. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
 
Page  5
3
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi, Vietnam 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
 (84-4) 
825 
0612 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to: (i) complete the 
rehabilitation of Highway 1, including increase protection for certain flood-prone 
segments; and (ii) improve the efficiency of the regional transport network in the Mekong 
Delta. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project, subject to the following revisions of 
Parts A.1(a) and A.2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Original Development Credit Agreement: 
(a) Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Original Development Credit Agreement 
the Project is amended by 
deleting “.” appearing at the end of the sentence in 
said Part A.1 adding “, and (b) construction of the Ganh Hao II Bridge in Ca 
Mau City” at the end of the sentence.    
(b)  Part A.2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Original Development Credit Agreement 
the Project is amended by replacing the phrase “128 km of selected sections 
of national and provincial roads” with “(i) 71 km of selected sections of 
national and provincial roads and (ii) 58 km of selected sections of national 
and provincial roads, all” in said Part A.2(c).    
 
Accordingly, Parts A and B of the Project are restated as follows: 
 
“Part A
:
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of National and Provincial Roads
1. (a)
 
Upgrading of about 180 kilometers (km) of Highway 1 between the 
cities of Can Tho and Ca Mau in the Mekong Delta, including rehabilitation 
or replacement of existing bridges; and (b) construction of the Ganh Hao II 
Bridge in Ca Mau City.  
2.  Improvement of the regional transport network in the Mekong Delta, 
consisting of: 
 
(a) 
Improvement of the wearing course of the road between Ca Mau 
and Cai Ran, and of the pavement of the road between Cai Ran and Dam 
Cung; 
 
(b) 
Construction of the road between Dam Cung and Nam Can; and 
 
(c) 
Rehabilitation of about: (i) 71 km of selected sections of national 
and provincial roads; and (ii) 58 km of selected sections of national and 
provincial roads, all in the extended road transport system of the Mekong 
Delta. 
Page  7
5
3.  Improvement of about 40 km of flood-prone sections of Highway 1 
between the cities of Dong Ha and Quang Ngai in the coastal area of central 
Vietnam. 
4.  (a) 
Carrying out a program of resettlement and rehabilitation of 
Affected Persons under Parts A.1, A.2 (b), and A.3 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Undertaking a review of resettlement activities completed in 
connection with the road between Ca Mau and Dam Cung. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of 
Transport and its related agencies for long-term strategy and planning and for 
management, through the provision of equipment, technical assistance and 
training.  
2.  Carrying out of the second phase of the program to develop and 
implement new road and bridge design standards, through the provision of 
technical assistance and training. 
3. 
Carrying out of the third phase of the program to enhance road safety, 
through the removal and upgrading of hazardous locations, provision of road 
safety equipment, and technical assistance and training in the development 
and implementation of traffic safety audit and remedial measures. 
4. 
Carrying out of the second phase of the program to develop and enforce 
axle-load regulations, through the construction of three permanent weigh 
stations along Highway 1, and provision of equipment and training. 
5. 
Undertaking preparation of a road network improvement project through 
the provision of consultants’ services.  
6. 
Provision of support to PMU 1 in project implementation.” 
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements. 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the Project in 
accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, at all times during the implementation of Parts A.1(b) and 
A.2(c)(ii) of the Project, maintain the PMU 1, managed and staffed by qualified 
personnel, in adequate number, and provided with sufficient resources, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for the management of said 
Parts of the Project, including without limitation procurement activities, financial 
management, training, implementation of the Additional RAP and Additional 
EMP, coordination of implementing units at different administrative levels, and 
monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the said Parts of the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption. 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the Project are 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Environment and Resettlement . 
1. 
With respect to the implementation of Part A.1(b) of the Project, the Recipient 
shall carry out the following and cause the following to be carried out: 
(a) 
implement the Additional EMP in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, and necessary to ensure that Part A.1(b) of the Project is 
implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards; 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior review any revision proposed to 
be introduced into the Additional EMP in order to achieve its objectives, and 
thereafter introduce only such revision into the documents as shall have been 
agreed with the Association; and 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the 
implementation of the Additional EMP and the achievement of its objectives. 
 
Page  9
7
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the following and cause the following to be carried 
out: 
(a) 
prior to commencing any works under Part A.1(b) of the Project, 
implement the Additional RAP, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior review any revision proposed to 
be introduced into the Additional RAP to achieve its objectives, and thereafter 
introduce only such revision into the Additional RAP as shall have been agreed 
with the Association; and 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the 
implementation of the Additional RAP and the achievement of its respective 
objectives. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Part A.1(b) and 
A.2(c)(ii) of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient 
or such other period agreed by the Association.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
8
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Works.
 
All works required for Parts A.1(b) and A.2(c)(ii) of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for Part A.1(b) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
procedures. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 C
onsultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  11
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1)  Works  
15,850,000 
 
90% 
(2) Consultants’ services for 
Part A.1(b) of the Project 
550,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  12
10
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set 
forth in Article 18 on Open Bidding of the 
Law on Procurement  61 / 2005/QH11
 dated 
November 29, 2005 and 
Decree 111/2006/ND-CP, Guiding Implementation of Law on 
Procurement and Selection of Contractor Bidder in Accordance with Law on 
Construction
 dated September 29, 2006 (collectively, “National Procurement Laws”) 
with due consideration to economy, efficiency and transparency as set forth  in, and broad 
consistency with,  Section I of the of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Association in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 
(the Guidelines) and required by paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Whenever 
any procedure in the National Procurement Laws is inconsistent with the requirements of 
said paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, the latter shall prevail, including the 
following: 
Eligibility
(i) 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Guidelines; 
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts 
financed by the Association for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the 
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders 
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked 
or required to form joint ventures with national bidders in order to submit a bid. Bidders 
located in the same province or city as the procuring entity shall not be given preference 
over bidders located outside that city or province. 
 
(ii) 
In addition to the foregoing requirements, equitized Government-owned 
enterprises in which the Recipient or procuring entity holds less than fifty percent of the 
shares are eligible to participate provided that that the governing Board and management 
team are autonomous from the procuring entity.  Military or security units or enterprises 
established under, reporting directly or indirectly to, or owned wholly or partly by, the 
Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Public Security shall not be permitted to bid.  
 Registration
(iii) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A foreign bidder 
shall not be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to 
be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular 
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
 
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
Page  13
11
(iv) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days, from the date of the invitation to bid 
or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, for the 
preparation and submission of bids, and potential bidders shall be allowed to purchase 
bidding documents up to any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.  In 
addition, the Recipient is encouraged to advertise in the Government Public Procurement 
Bulletin and on a free and open access website.  
Standard Bidding Documents
(v) 
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Association, shall be used. 
 Qualification 
Criteria 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and all 
criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merits points 
shall not be used. Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder’s capacity and 
resources to perform the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on 
similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment and construction and 
manufacturing facilities, and financial capacity. 
 
Bid Submission, Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(vii) 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or 
by mail. Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids. Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to 
the bidders unopened.  
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the 
required fee of the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs of 
printing, reproduction and delivery, and no other conditions shall be imposed on 
the sale of the bidding documents.  
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that 
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary 
terms for evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid 
evaluation. 
 
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers 
the lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations not specified 
Page  14
12
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(d) A 
bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
 
(e) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the 
employer's estimate and budget ceiling without the Associa
tion’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
(f) 
A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall be promptly 
provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the Association with respect to 
contracts subject to prior review.  
 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
(viii) 
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Association’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
(ix) 
The Recipient shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism 
allowing bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.  
 Fraud 
and 
Corruption
(x) 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time 
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in 
executing, a contract financed by the Association. 
 
Right to Inspect/Audit
(xi) 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of a Credit shall 
include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors to permit 
the Association, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Association. The deliberate and material violation 
by the bidder, supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to 
obstructive practice. 
Page  15
13
 
License
(xii) 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and 
obtain license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld. 
Publication of the Award of Contract
(xiii) 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award in the 
Government Public Procurement Bulletin or on a free and open access website or on 
another means of publication acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder who 
submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of 
each bid that was evaluated; (d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected and the 
reasons for their rejection; and (e) name of the winning bidder, price it offered as well as 
the duration and summary scope of the contract awarded.  This publication shall be 
updated regularly. 
 
Page  16
14
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule  
 
Date Payment Due
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)
*
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2017 to and including 
June 15, 2027 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2027 to and including 
June 15, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  17
15
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Additional EMP” means the environmental management plan dated April 25, 
2007, for carrying out of Parts A.1(b) of the Project by MOT in Ca Mau Province 
and  referred to in paragraph C.4 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and approved by MOT through its official letter Ref: 2966/BGTVTT-KHCN  
dated May 17, 2007, and adopted by the Ca Mau Provincial People’s Committee 
through official letters Ref: 1249/UBND dated April 19, 2007.   
2. “Additional 
RAP”
 
means the resettlement action plan dated April 18, 2007, for 
carrying out of Parts A.1(b) of the Project by MOT in Ca Mau Province and 
referred to in paragraph C.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
approved by MOT through its official letter Ref: 2407/BGTVT-KHDT and dated 
May 8, 2007, and endorsed by the Ca Mau Provincial People’s Committee 
through official letter Ref: 1532/UBND dated May 14, 2007. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
7. 
“Original Development Credit Agreement” means the development credit 
agreement for the Original Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated July 5, 2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3448-
VN). 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Development 
Credit Agreement. 
Page  18
16
9. 
The acronym “MOT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Transport, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“PMU1” means the project management unit established within MOT to 
administer works for the Recipient’s National Highway No.1, including 
procurement of goods, works and services, maintenance of project accounts, 
preparation of project reports, supervision of contract management and 
resettlement and rehabilitation activities, and any successor thereto. 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for Parts A.1(b) and 
A.2(c)(ii) of the Project, dated May 22, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of 
the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraphs. 
 
