                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR1816



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-34480; IDA-34481)



                                        ON

                                     CREDITS

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                             SDR 86.2 MILLION
                       (US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND

                             SDR 16.4 MILLION
                       (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                     FOR THE

         MEKONG TRANSPORT AND FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT



                               December 21, 2011



Infrastructure Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective: September 1, 2011)
                            Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                                   VND 1 million = US$48.5
                                    US$1.00 = 20,628 VND

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 – December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AC     Asphalt Concrete                           MDTIDP   Mekong Delta Transport Infrastructure
                                                           Development Project
ATB    Asphalt Treated Base                       MoT      Ministry of Transport
CAB    Crushed Aggregate Base                     MoF      Ministry of Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy               MPI      Ministry of Planning and Investment
DBST   Double Bituminous Surface Treatment        MTFP     Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project
DCA    Development Credit Agreement               NCB      National Competitive Bidding
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return           NH1      National Highway 1
ENPV   Economic Net Present Value                 PAD      Project Appraisal Document
EMDP   Ethnic Minority Development Plan           PAP      Project Affected Person
EMP    Environmental Management Plan              PDO      Project Development Objective
FM     Financial Management                       PMU1     Project Management Unit 1
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                     PMR      Project Management Report
GH2    Ganh Hao II                                POM      Project Operations Manual
GoV    Government of Vietnam                      PQ       Pre-qualification
GVW    Gross Vehicle Weight                       RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
HCMC   Ho Chi Minh City                           SDR      Special Drawing Right
HRP    Highway Rehabilitation Project             SOE      State-owned Enterprise
IDA    International Development Association      TA       Technical Assistance
ICB    International Competitive Bidding          TOR      Terms of Reference
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results      VO       Variation Order
       Report
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report   VOC      Vehicle Operating Cost
IT     Information Technology                     VND      Vietnam Dong
JBIC   Japan Bank for International Cooperation   VRA      Vietnam Roads Administration
JICA   Japan International Cooperation Agency     VRAMP    Vietnam Road Asset Management
                                                           Program
MDNI   Mekong Delta Network Improvement           WTO      World Trade Organization



                                Vice President: James W. Adams, EAP
                              Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa, EACVF
                               Sector Manager: Jennifer J. Sara, EASVS
                          Project Team Leader: Dung Anh Hoang, EASVS
                             ICR Team Leader: Dung Anh Hoang, EASVS
                                 SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

            MEKONG TRANSPORT AND FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT


                                                       CONTENTS

Data Sheet ………………………………………………………………………………. i

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 13
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 17
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 17
6.    Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 19
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 20


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 22
Annex 3. Economic Analysis ............................................................................................ 25
Annex 4. Resettlement Impacts ........................................................................................ 39
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 40
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 42
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 43
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 44
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 55
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 56
IBRD MAP No. 38917
A. Basic Information
                                                                  Mekong Transport and Flood Protection
Country:               Vietnam            Project Name:
                                                                  Project
Project ID:            P042927            L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-34480,IDA-34481
ICR Date:              12/08/2011         ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                Borrower:               SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Original Total
                       XDR 86.20M         Disbursed Amount:       XDR 87.86M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 87.86M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                         Revised / Actual
       Process                 Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:              05/14/1998     Effectiveness:          10/03/2001              10/03/2001
Appraisal:                   10/18/1999     Restructuring(s):                               12/21/2007
Approval:                    12/20/2000     Mid-term Review:                                07/27/2004
                                            Closing:                06/30/2006              06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           Moderate
Bank Performance:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:




                                                       i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                           QAG Assessments
      Implementation Performance          Indicators                                             Rating
                                                               (if any)
 Potential Problem Project at any time
                                                No             Quality at Entry (QEA):      None
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):           Yes            Quality of Supervision (QSA): None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:       Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      6                     2
Flood protection                                                      14                    12
Roads and highways                                                    80                    86



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                     50                   50
Rural services and infrastructure                                          50                   50

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                               At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:                     James W. Adams                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:                   Victoria Kwakwa                   Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:                     Jennifer J. Sara                  Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:                Dung Anh Hoang                    Alain L. Labeau
ICR Team Leader:                    Dung Anh Hoang
ICR Primary Author:                 Luis C. Blancas Mendivil
                                    Christopher J. De Serio

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objectives were to stimulate the commercial use of an improved
transportation network, improve access to rural areas by connecting them to the main trade and
movement corridors, and ensure permanent access to regular flood-prone areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
   Not applicable.




                                                       ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target
                                                               Formally Actual Value Achieved at
                                            Values (from
     Indicator       Baseline Value                             Revised         Completion or Target
                                              approval
                                                             Target Values               Years
                                             documents)
                  Increase in volume of freight measured through increase in truck traffic to Can Tho and
Indicator 1 :
                  Ho Chi Minh City
Value
quantitative or   7,267,680 tons       9,725,795 tons                         11,489,583 tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005           12/31/2010                             12/31/2010
Comments
                  Original target value was an increase of 6.0% annually, measured from 2005. Actual
(incl. %
                  value attains average annual growth of 9.6% between 2005 and 2010. Target achieved.
achievement)
                  Reduction in freight tariffs (rice, petroleum, and cement) in real terms between Can
Indicator 2 :
                  Tho and Ca Mau
                                        Rice: 154,570
                                        VND/Ton
                  Rice: 159,350                                                Rice: 123,907 VND/Ton
                                        Petroleum: 137,759
                  VND/Ton                                                      Petroleum: 107,145
Value                                   VND/Ton
                  Petroleum: 142,020                                           VND/Ton
quantitative or                         Cement: 144,918
                  VND/Ton                                                      Cement: 121,059 VND/Ton
Qualitative)                            VND/Ton
                  Cement: 149,400                                              (all tariffs in VND of 2005,
                                        (all tariffs in VND of
                  VND/Ton                                                      deflated by national CPI)
                                        2005, deflated by
                                        national CPI)
Date achieved     12/31/2005            12/31/2010                             12/31/2010
                  Original target value was a decrease of 3.0% in real terms relative to 2005. Actual
Comments
                  values through end-2010 show a real decrease of 22.2% for rice shipments; real
(incl. %
                  decrease of 24.6% for petroleum shipments; and a real decrease of 19.0% for cement
achievement)
                  shipments.
Indicator 3 :     Reduction in travel time by bus between Can Tho and Ca Mau
Value
quantitative or   4 hours              3.6 hours                              3 hours
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005            06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments          Original target was to reduce travel time by 10% from 2005. Travel time as of year-end
(incl. %          2007 and through year-end 2010 had been reduced by 25% relative to 2005. Target
achievement)      achieved.
Indicator 4 :     Reduction in travel time between Nam Can and Ca Mau
Value
quantitative or   3.5 hrs              1.19 hrs                               1.12 hrs
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005           06/30/2010                             06/30/2010
Comments
                  Original target was a reduction by 66% relative to 2005. Travel time as of year-end
(incl. %
                  2010 had been reduced by 68% relative to 2005. Target achieved.
achievement)




                                                   iii
                                          Original Target
                                                                Formally Actual Value Achieved at
                                           Values (from
     Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised         Completion or Target
                                             approval
                                                              Target Values               Years
                                            documents)
                  Reduction in total number of accidents on blackspot locations upgraded under the
Indicator 5 :
                  project
Value             32 accidents at 2    19 accidents at 2                     Not yet measured as
quantitative or   IDA-financed         IDA-financed                          blackspot works were
Qualitative)      blackspot removals blackspot removals                      completed at closing date
Date achieved     12/31/2007           12/31/2010                            06/30/2011
                  Target was a 40% reduction by 2005. Borrower upgraded nine locations with
Comments
                  Government funds and no accident data are available for these locations. Accident data
(incl. %
                  for IDA-financed blackspot removals expected to be available in 12 months. Outcome
achievement)
                  unknown.
                  Reduction in the annual duration of road closures in each of the four flooded sections
Indicator 6 :
                  along Dong Ha and Quang Ngai
Value
quantitative or   11 hours             5.5 hours                              5 hours
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2001            12/31/2005                             12/31/2006
Comments          Original target was to reduce the duration of road closures in relevant locations by an
(incl. %          average 50% per section by 2005. Road closures were reduced by 55%. Target
achievement)      achieved.
Indicator 7 :     Reduction in travel time by bus between Bac Lieu and Dam Cung (hours)
Value
quantitative or   2.25 hrs             2.025 hrs                              1.375 hrs
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2009           12/31/2010                             12/31/2010
Comments
                  Indicator added as part of Additional Finance. Target was to reduce travel time by bus
(incl. %
                  by 10%. Travel time was reduced by 39%. Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Reduction in number of accidents on GH2 Bridge
Value
quantitative or   56                   34                                     0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007             12/31/2010                          03/31/2011
Comments          Indicator added as part of Additional Finance. Target was a 40% reduction in
(incl. %          accidents. In first 15 months of operation as an expanded bridge, no accidents had been
achievement)      reported. Target achieved.
Indicator 9 :     Reduction in fatalities on GH2 Bridge
Value
quantitative or   1 fatality           by 40%                                 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008            09/30/2010                            03/31/2011
Comments          Indicator added as part of Additional Finance. Target was a 40% reduction in fatalities.
(incl. %          In first 15 months of operation as an expanded bridge, no fatalities had been reported.
achievement)      Target achieved.



                                                   iv
                                          Original Target
                                                                Formally Actual Value Achieved at
                                            Values (from
     Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised       Completion or Target
                                             approval
                                                             Target Values               Years
                                            documents)
                   Reduction in aggregate annual overloading recorded at each of the three permanent
Indicator 10 :
                   weigh stations
Value
quantitative or    N/A                  N/A                                     N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2001           06/30/2006                              12/31/2008
Comments
                   Original target was a 10% annual reduction from 2005. No weigh stations were
(incl. %
                   constructed. Activity was cancelled.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target
                                                                 Formally Actual Value Achieved at
                                            Values (from
     Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised    Completion or Target
                                              approval
                                                              Target Values        Years
                                             documents)
Indicator 1 :      Rehabilitation of 234 km of roads from IRI 6-8 to IRI 3
Value
(quantitative      IRI 5.5              IRI 3                                   IRI3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2003           06/30/2006                              12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %           Target Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Rehabilitation of 128 km of roads from IRI 8-10 to IRI 4-5
Value
(quantitative      IRI 7.4              IRI 4-5                                 IRI 4-5 for 98 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2003           06/30/2006                              06/30/2011
Comments
                   Rehabilitation works covered only 98 out of the originally-planned 128 km of national
(incl. %
                   and provincial roads in the Mekong Delta. Target partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Upgrading of 180 km of NH1 from 7-7.5 m standard to 12m standard
Value
(quantitative      0 km                 180 km                                  180 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2001           06/30/2006                              12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved.
achievement)




                                                  v
                                                Original Target
                                                                     Formally Actual Value Achieved at
                                                 Values (from
     Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised        Completion or Target
                                                    approval
                                                                  Target Values              Years
                                                  documents)
                       Protection of central coastal area Highway No. 1 from 1 - 3 year recurrence flood
Indicator 4 :
                       factor to 10-year recurrence flood factor
Value
(quantitative          0 km                 39 Km                                39 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2001           06/30/2006                           12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %               Target Achieved.
achievement)
                       Implementation of axle-load control program and black-spot removal program with
Indicator 5 :
                       VRA; provision of 10 mobile scales and installation of three permanent weigh stations
                                           Formal adoption of
Value
                                           standards; 10 mobile                   Road safety guidelines
(quantitative          0 stations
                                           scales; 3 permanent                    formally adopted
or Qualitative)
                                           weigh stations
Date achieved          12/31/2001          06/30/2006                             12/31/2008
Comments               Road Safety Audit Guidelines adopted. Technical Assistance on Heavy Traffic
(incl. %               Management completed. Borrower requested the cancellation of weigh station works
achievement)           and purchase of mobile scales. Target partially achieved.
                       Implementation of management information system (long-term strategy, planning, and
Indicator 6 :
                       information management) with MoT
Value                                      Management
(quantitative          None                information system                     Subcomponent Cancelled
or Qualitative)                            implemented
Date achieved          12/31/2001          06/30/2006                             12/31/2007
Comments
                       Borrower requested that the technical assistance for MoT Management Capacity
(incl. %
                       Strengthening be cancelled. Target not achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                 Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
   No.                                    DO                        IP
                 Archived                                                              (USD millions)
     1          01/03/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
     2          06/06/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
     3          12/28/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
     4          02/06/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
     5          09/13/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.01
     6          06/09/2003         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     4.52
     7          11/25/2003         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    13.87
     8          06/04/2004         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    19.03
     9          09/07/2004         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    20.31
    10          03/23/2005     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              27.51

                                                     vi
    11      01/03/2006      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          57.59
    12      09/29/2006      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          69.06
    13      03/01/2007      Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 70.97
    14      03/26/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 84.42
    15      02/10/2009          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                102.94
    16      07/11/2009          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                107.08
    17      01/05/2011          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                128.38

H. Restructuring (if any)

                                                               Amount Disbursed      Reason for
                                           ISR Ratings at
  Restructuring      Board Approved                            at Restructuring in Restructuring &
                                           Restructuring
     Date(s)          PDO Change                                  USD millions    Key Changes Made
                                           DO           IP
    12/21/2007              N              MS            S           79.26       Additional Finance


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal
1.      The Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project (MTFP) was the third Bank-
financed highways sector investment in Vietnam. It supported the 1999-2002 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals of improving the rural population‘s access to social
services and employment opportunities and reducing the cost of infrastructure services—
particularly the transport system—to strengthen the response of the Vietnamese economy
to market incentives. It was consistent with the Bank‘s 1999 Transport Sector Review
(Vietnam Moving Forward: Achievements and Challenges in the Transport Sector), the
November 1999 Country Framework Report on private participation in infrastructure
(also by the Bank), and the Government‘s July 2000 Transport Sector Strategy. It did so
by reducing transport and logistics costs through better road infrastructure, while
expanding access to the road and highway network in previously unconnected,
underserved, and/or disruption-prone areas in both urban and rural settings.
2.     At the time of appraisal (October 1999), traffic volumes on National Highway 1
(NH1), Vietnam‘s primary north-south thoroughfare, and other arterial roads were
growing at 10-14 percent per annum, with a vehicle fleet composition dominated by
motorcycles mixed with heavy trucks. Traffic growth outpaced road rehabilitation and
more substantial investment was needed to reverse that trend, reduce congestion, and
segregate road traffic through upgraded national road standards. Moreover, there was a
strong need for extending transport connectivity to rural populations in the Mekong Delta
and ensuring permanent access to/from the seasonally-flooded central coastal region.
3.      From an institutional perspective, despite the existence of various Ministry of
Transport (MoT) decrees on traffic and transport regulations (e.g., heavy traffic
management and the treatment of hazardous locations), as well as vehicle and road
standards, many such regulations were out of date and lacked enforcement. Indirect
subsidy to debt ridden State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) was also stifling a competitive
road construction industry. It was believed that Bank assistance could help overcome
these shortcomings by providing technical assistance and capacity building towards
updating road sector standards on design, construction, and safety while at the same time
strengthening MoT‘s management and staffing capacity. Bank-financed infrastructure
provision would also promote competitive and efficient project management practices
that could contribute to the modernization of the domestic road construction industry.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.      The project's development objectives (PDO), as stated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), were to stimulate the commercial use of an improved transportation
network, improve access to rural areas by connecting them to the main trade and
movement corridors, and ensure permanent access to regular flood-prone areas.
Specifically, as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project aimed to
assist the Borrower to: (i) complete the rehabilitation of NH1, including increased


                                           1
protection for certain flood-prone segments; and (ii) improve the efficiency of the
regional transport network in the Mekong Delta.

5.     The project‘s outcome indicators and associated baseline and target values used to
monitor and evaluate project achievements are listed in Section F-(a) above. They
measure impacts on transport efficiency (travel times, freight transport tariffs, and cargo
volumes), safety (incidence of accidents), resiliency (duration of road closures due to
flooding), and sustainability (incidence of vehicle overloading).

1.3       Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
          Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

6.      The original PDO and outcome indicators did not change. Three additional
outcome indicators were incorporated to the results framework in order to reflect the
inclusion of the Ganh Hao II (GH2) Bridge investment in Ca Mau city under the MTFP
Additional Financing credit:

         Reduction in travel time by bus between Bac Lieu and Dam Cung
         Number of accidents per 100 million vehicle-km on GH2 Bridge
         Fatalities per 100 million vehicle-km on GH2 Bridge.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

7.      The project was expected to benefit NH1 road users in the Mekong Delta (from
Can Tho to Nam Can) and the central coastal region (from Dong Ha to Quang Ngai), as
well as the local communities served by provincial-level project roads in South Vietnam.
As a result of improved road conditions and wider network coverage, businesses engaged
in domestic and international trade would benefit from shorter journey times, lower
vehicle operating costs, lower inventory carrying costs, and increased access to
markets—including major destinations like Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) and Da Nang.
Leisure travelers and work commuters would benefit from faster and safer travel, as
upgraded carriageways would provide better separation between light-weight/slower
traffic and heavy/faster traffic. In central Vietnam, entire communities would benefit
from better connectivity and fewer interruptions to travel during the rainy season.

8.      Through the institutional strengthening component, individuals that received
training would benefit directly, with associated institutions (such as the project
management unit and national and provincial transport departments) also benefiting from
improved staff skills, updated tools (e.g., manuals and standards), and strategic advice.

1.5       Original Components (as approved)

9.      Component 1: Upgrading 180 kilometers of Highway 1 between Can Tho and
Ca Mau in the Mekong Delta. This component included the rehabilitation of the
existing carriageway as well as the rehabilitation or replacement of culverts and 21
bridges (with less than 25 meter span) to accommodate 30-ton gross vehicle weight

                                            2
(GVW) vehicles. The Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)1 would support
the rehabilitation of longer bridges through parallel financing.

10.     Component 2: Upgrading 182 kilometers of national and provincial roads in
the extended Mekong Delta transport system covering 18 provinces. Sections to be
upgraded included: (i) three segments of NH1 between Ca Mau and Nam Can, totaling 54
kilometers; and (ii) 12 sections of national and provincial roads, totaling 128 kilometers.
The latter activity, targeting various national and provincial roads, was referred to as the
Mekong Delta Network Improvement (MDNI) sub-component.

11.    Component 3: Protecting an aggregate of 38.8 kilometers of 17 flood-prone
sections of Highway I between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai in the central coastal area.
This component would protect selected sections against flooding events up to a once-
every-10-years severity level through grade raises and adequate cross drainage.

12.    Component 4: Strengthening institutions. This component included five
technical assistance (TA) interventions: (i) strengthening of MoT management, including
the planning, monitoring, and organizational functions, as well as the provision of
information technology (IT) resources; (ii) implementation of new road and bridge design
standards; (iii) enhancement of road safety audit, blackspot treatment, and heavy traffic
management—complemented by the physical upgrading of 12 hazardous locations and
the supply of 10 mobile scales and three permanent weigh stations; (iv) final design of a
future road maintenance project; and (v) project management support to the MoT-
dependent implementing agency, Project Management Unit 1 (PMU1).

1.6     Revised Components and Other Significant Changes

13.    Several project changes took place during implementation, including closing date
extensions, revisions to project components, reallocation of credit proceeds, and the
approval of additional financing.

14.    Closing Date extensions. The original credit‘s closing date was extended three
times for a total of five years: (i) for 18 months (through December 2007); (ii) for 36
months (through December 2010, co-terminus with the closing date for the additional
financing credit); and (iii) a final period of six months (through June 2011). The
additional financing credit was extended once for six months (through June 2011).

15.    Additional Financing. Additional financing in the amount of SDR16.4 million
(US$25 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on June 20, 2007. It would serve
two purposes: (i) allowing the completion of the MDNI sub-component (58 remaining
kilometers) by covering a financing gap that resulted from significant cost escalations;



1
 As of 2008, JBIC‘s development assistance section has merged in Vietnam with the Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA).


                                                   3
and (ii) extending the scope of the NH1 investments in the Mekong Delta to include the
construction of the GH2 Bridge.

16.     Six bridges on the Ca Mau – Nam Can section of NH1. The project design
included parallel JBIC financing for the rehabilitation or replacement of bridges with a
span longer than 25 meters located along the Can Tho – Ca Mau section of NH1. It was
also expected that JBIC would finance the rehabilitation of six bridges in the Ca Mau –
Nam Can section of NH1. IDA agreed during implementation to finance the six bridges
on the Ca Mau – Nam Can section after it was determined, in 2003, that JBIC would only
be able to fund bridges on the Can Tho – Ca Mau section. The original credit was
therefore amended to include the replacement of six bridges, as their completion
supported the efficiency and sustainability of the credit‘s NH1 investments.

17.     Substantial variation orders to major civil works contracts. Variation orders
(VOs) of approximately US$23 million associated with the project‘s five major
international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts required a reallocation of proceeds
from the unallocated category of the original credit. The VOs reflected changes in design
standards, increased quantities, and revised unit prices that were caused by revisions to
the road alignment, unforeseen changes in construction site conditions, higher than
expected traffic levels, and input price inflation.

18.     Changes to institutional strengthening priorities. After a protracted preparation
period during which MoT made changes to its management structure, technical assistance
for strengthening MoT management capacity was cancelled at the Borrower‘s request.
Available funds were instead used to conduct feasibility studies and preliminary designs
for future road improvement projects.

19.    Cancellation of mobile scales and permanent weigh stations. Civil works to
support the TA on heavy traffic management were not completed, as MoT decided to
postpone the construction of all permanent weigh stations nationwide until after the
completion of a more detailed heavy load control Master Plan for the country‘s entire
highway network. The procurement of mobile scales was also cancelled. Though MoT
requested cancellation, the activities and associated performance indicators were not
formally revised due to the late stage of project implementation.

20.     Revised scope of blackspot improvement program. The original design called
for the treatment of 12 blackspot locations, identified on the basis of an associated
project-financed technical assistance. After a lengthy selection process, Vietnam Roads
Administration (VRA) proactively decided to upgrade nine of the 14 consultant-
recommended locations utilizing Government funds. Credit proceeds would eventually
finance civil works for the upgrading of two blackspot locations.

21.    Credit cancellation. In May 2011 funds from both the original credit and the
additional financing, amounting to SDR8.5 million (US$13.5 million equivalent) and
SDR3.4 million (US$5.5 million equivalent), respectively, were cancelled and



                                           4
International Development Association (IDA) resources recommitted to the Da Nang-
Quang Ngai Expressway Development Project.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

22.     Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory, reflecting a combination of (i)
efforts made to include project design features that reflected lessons learned from
previous road sector projects, and (ii) underestimation of the severity of key risks, leading
to insufficient mitigation measures at entry.

23.     The project design featured enhanced mechanisms to address previous
resettlement challenges. In early 2000 an independent auditor investigated payment
irregularities associated with resettlement compensation practices in the two previous
IDA-financed highway projects in Vietnam. Based on the auditor‘s findings and in order
to avoid similar irregularities in the future, the project design introduced operational
procedures under which compensation payments would no longer be handled by
Provincial Authorities, but rather executed by PMU1 directly through provincial Treasury
Accounts. PMU1 was given full responsibility of Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
implementation, making the monitoring of related funds more direct and transparent. In
further contrast to previous highway investments, the project was explicit on the
mechanisms and protocols for resettlement compensation, as articulated in the PAD and
legal agreement. Quality at entry was also enhanced by early preparation and timely
approval of RAP documents. Resettlement implementation was formally launched in
November 2000, about a month before Board approval and nearly a year before Credit
Effectiveness.

24.      Overall project risk identification and mitigation at entry. The overall project
risk rating at entry was considered moderate, when in retrospect the implementation risks
were more substantial. As a result, even when some of the challenges that would
eventually lead to implementation delays, cost escalations, and inadequate project
management were correctly identified during preparation as sources of risk, they were
insufficiently mitigated in the project design. Other sources of implementation risk were
simply not identified during preparation (and therefore lacked mitigation measures at
entry). Such sources of risk, which could have been better dealt with at preparation, are
the following:

 (i)   Readiness of civil works implementation. Project bidding documents based on full
       detailed engineering designs (as opposed to preliminary designs) for five major
       ICB contracts were substantially completed before project approval. On that basis,
       the risk of having to adjust designs during implementation was considered low at
       entry (only minor changes were expected). However, revisions to the designs of
       two contracts were subsequently requested by IDA (after having granted its no-
       objection) to adjust the road alignment in order to further reduce the number of
       households to be relocated, leading to procurement delays. Means to better


                                             5
        incorporate resettlement considerations into detailed design engineering could
        have been introduced during project preparation.
(ii)    Procurement in an SOE-dominated road construction industry. At the time of
        appraisal (1999), Vietnam‘s road construction sector was dominated by SOEs.
        IDA‘s two previous highway projects had featured waivers to World Bank
        procurement guidelines allowing the participation of MoT-dependent SOEs. The
        project context reflected the reality of a country slowly transitioning towards a
        market-based economy and the project design attempted to coincide with a shift in
        IDA‘s policy stance on future eligibility. A Memorandum of Understanding
        (MoU) signed between the Bank and the Ministry of Planning and Investment
        (MPI) in November 2000 indicated that all dependent SOEs would no longer be
        eligible to bid on Bank-financed contracts as primary contractors, except for
        contracts for which bids were invited on or before an agreed cut-off date of
        December 31, 2000. In December 2000 the Bank provided additional clarification
        to MPI on the eligibility issue indicating that it would allow subcontracting of
        Bank-financed contracts to dependent SOEs provided that the subcontracting was
        (a) limited to 20 percent of the value of the original contract, and (b) for bids
        issued before January 1, 2003. Despite the timing of these changes in the
        application of Bank procurement policies in Vietnam, the project did not identify
        procurement delays as a major risk and no mitigation measures were proposed at
        entry. However, the implementation of the MoU would eventually lead to
        procurement delays, as it was not clear whether the cutoff for bid invitations
        referred to pre-qualification (PQ) or short-list invitations. Interpretation of the
        Bank‘s guidelines on subcontracting also led to procurement delays. The clarity of
        both the MoU and the guidelines on subcontracting could have been more
        carefully assessed during preparation.
(iii)   Risks to Resettlement Implementation. While the risk of not having sufficient and
        timely allocation of counterpart funds was considered negligible at entry, there
        were significant and persistent delays in the approval and flow of funds.
        Furthermore, the risk related to experience and operational capacity to manage
        resettlement was correctly identified as substantial, but the proposed mitigation
        measures (improved operational procedures, a strengthened PMU1 resettlement
        unit, and closer monitoring) were not sufficient. Specifically, implementation
        arrangements did not adequately take into account the geographical separation
        between a PMU1 headquartered in Hanoi with a project area located in the
        Mekong Delta. This would ultimately require that a subdivision of the
        implementing agency (PMU1-South) be tasked with carrying out resettlement
        activities without having benefited from institutional strengthening measures
        conducted at entry.
(iv)    Prioritization of Institutional Strengthening. No critical risks or subsequent
        mitigation measures related to institutional strengthening activities were identified
        at appraisal. That was the case despite acknowledgement that highway sector
        projects in Vietnam had historically featured a disproportionate precedence of
        investment programs over institutional strengthening. Such a track record could
        have signaled a challenging implementation environment for the project‘s
        numerous institutional strengthening activities, particularly with regard to client

                                             6
       uptake and ownership of the capacity development agenda. In particular, much
       stronger preparatory work could have been carried out in order to set a well-
       defined implementation strategy and to further solidify client buy-in.
(v)    Adequate Implementation Capacity. The risk to having adequate experience,
       skills, and staff resources within PMU1 beyond its resettlement unit was
       considered moderate, but no mitigation measures were identified. Instead, it was
       noted that PMU1 had gained over six years of experience in project
       implementation and had been well equipped and trained by various donor-assisted
       operations. In reality, however, PMU1 was repeatedly assessed by the Task Team
       as inadequately staffed and equipped.

2.2    Implementation

25.      The project‘s ten-year implementation period is best characterized by multiple
and persistent delays, which beset the project from the start and impacted nearly all
activities. The delays had four root causes: (i) the timing of IDA‘s handling of key
decisions regarding eligibility of MoT-dependent SOEs; (ii) the Borrower‘s inability to
meet counterpart funding requirements to finance resettlement activities; (iii) insufficient
mobilization of working capital by the primary contractors on the NH1 civil works; and
(iv) lack of proactive project management by the implementing agency (PMU1) and a
narrowly focused engagement of the project owner (MoT).

26.      Eligibility of MoT-dependent SOEs. In all, delays to civil works implementation
resulting from decisions regarding SOE eligibility amounted to nearly three years (34
months). Such delays contributed to significant complexity and cost escalations, as
repeated policy waivers and contract amendments would become necessary in order to
reflect the actual operating environment and sector capacity.

27.     The procurement PQ process for the five ICB packages was delayed for nearly
one year. IDA ultimately agreed, on an exceptional basis, to allow the PQ process to
continue to proceed given that the PQ invitations and the resulting PQ evaluation
report—which included SOE-issued PQ packages—were both submitted to IDA prior to
the MoU cut-off date. The decision was made on the understanding that the project team
and MoT were not aware of the MoU, since this had taken place in Hanoi at the same
time as project negotiations in Washington, D.C., and during which it was assumed that
the five contracts under the bidding stage were in an advanced stage of pre-qualification.

28.     Further delays (11 months in total) would stem from this issue in September 2003
when the lead contractors for the MD1 and MD2 civil works requested sub-contracting
arrangements with MoT-dependent SOEs for 40-50 percent of the total contract values.
IDA initially objected to this arrangement, on the basis that (i) it directly involved a
MoT-dependent SOE, and (ii) the lead contractors had not revealed their subcontracting
intentions at the time of bidding. Though IDA had agreed to allow SOE sub-contracting
of no more that 20 percent of the total contract value on bids for goods, works, and
services issued before January 1, 2003, a second exception would be issued for this case.
A final exception was issued in August 2004 to accept the use of dependent MoT sub-

                                             7
contractors for MD1 and MD2 of 66 percent and 62 percent, respectively, of the original
contract value.

29.     Years later (in 2009) the issue would again impact the procurement review of
MDNI works under additional financing. Further delays, 12 months in total, were
incurred when the Bank determined that MoT-equitized firms that participated in these
bids were still considered to be dependent. This would result in the rebidding of four out
of five packages, and provided the justification for the final extension of the closing date.

30.     Counterpart funding of resettlement. With compensation rates increasing
sharply due to inflationary pressures, coupled with increases in right-of-way acquisition
for design changes that required road widening, by the time detailed measurement
surveys and accounting of affected asset inventories were completed, substantial
corrections in the actual resettlement costs were required. The final resettlement costs
(VND667 billion, approximately US$48 million equivalent) were more than double the
appraisal estimates (VND317 billion including contingencies, approximately US$23
million equivalent). This resulted in significant delays in the budgeting, availability, and
payment of counterpart funds.

31.     At year-end 2003, only VND171 billion in compensation payments had been
made. Furthermore, at the start of 2004, only VND135 billion had been allocated to the
provincial treasuries, out of VND400 billion required for the year. Of additional concern,
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) were being compensated in piecemeal fashion, rather
than in large blocks at a time.

32.     During the Mid-Term Review (July 2004), MoT and PMU1 agreed to work more
closely in order to prepare a Resettlement Progress Monitoring Program, with measurable
implementation goals that would ensure full site hand-over by January 1, 2005. Delays
thereafter were kept to a minimum and all compensation payments had been substantially
completed by the summer of 2005. Close coordination among the Ministry of Finance
(MoF), MoT, and MPI proved critical to enabling the turnaround. Though the original
targets indicated completion of resettlement compensation and site hand-over by
November 2002, actual completion was only attained in mid-2005.

33.     Capital resource mobilization constraints and poor contract management by
lead contractors. An inability of the primary contractors to bring sufficient working
capital to the project sites hampered the implementation of the five ICB contracts. The
initial justification provided by contractors for the fund-flow bottleneck was the
fragmented approach to site hand-over due to delays in PAP compensation. Contractors
claimed that it was inefficient for them to acquire raw materials and to rent equipment
without having access to adequate storage areas or operationally-viable segments in
which to perform works. However, a lack of working capital persisted even after
resettlement activities were mostly complete and sufficient land area had been made
available to the contractors. The problem was most acute in the MD1 and MD2 contracts,
as the primary contractors relied on subcontractors for the provision of required working



                                             8
capital. Contractor Action and Fund Mobilization Plans for all ICB contracts were
introduced to deal with this issue.

34.     Overall project management constraints at PMU1 and MoT. PMU1 was not
proactive in resolving identified issues at the source of implementation delays, nor was it
sufficiently supported by MoT as delays mounted. Performance shortcomings ranged
from ineffective contract management (to include a persistent unwillingness to enforce
contract clauses related to fund mobilization as well as following appropriate procedures
in evaluating and approving substantial variation orders), to significant delays in the
identification and procurement of the MDNI sub-component works, to a general lack of
ownership in conducting the technical assistance activities. Poor management in
environmental and social safeguards staffing (e.g., PMU1 dismantled its environmental
unit mid-project only to reappoint it with staff who had limited experience in project
environmental management), as well as monitoring and reporting (e.g., an inability to
produce adequate and timely periodic financial reports for several years), required
continuous oversight and attention throughout implementation. Attention to baseline data
collection and evaluation was also problematic.

35.      Continuous challenges to identify suitable road segments for upgrading under the
MDNI sub-component would result in both time-consuming revisions and subsequent
cost escalations. The latter would lead to a financing gap under which only about 70 of
the target 128 kilometers were upgraded under the original credit, with the remaining
sections to be funded with additional financing. Eventually, a total of 98 kilometers were
upgraded (and a detailed design completed for the remaining 30 kilometers), with
substantial delays for both the first 70 kilometers (completed about 12 months after the
original closing date) and the subsequent 28 kilometers (completed during the final
project closing date extension period in the spring of 2011).

36.      Project management-triggered delays were also evident in the execution of the
Institutional Strengthening component, which lacked MoT‘s ownership and leadership. In
some cases, further preparatory and design work would be required, while in other cases
there was an apparent disconnect between MoT‘s and the project‘s priorities, impacting
project outcomes in these areas. Progress remained negligible through June 2004 and the
first successful bidding processes for activities under this component did not take place
until early 2006. While some activities would ultimately be cancelled, those activities that
were eventually completed were of generally good quality.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

37.     M&E design. The results framework for the original credit featured seven
outcome indicators, some of which were only indirect proxies for outcomes reasonably
attributable to project investments. For example, the framework introduced freight tariffs
as an outcome indicator, where a reduction in tariffs would signal a positive impact from
road upgrading works. However, freight tariffs respond to a variety of factors (e.g., fuel
prices, driver and equipment availability, and, above all, the supply-demand balance in
the truck transportation market—at least in reasonably competitive trucking sectors, such

                                             9
as Vietnam‘s), only one of which is the quality of the road used. A similar case can be
made about freight volumes, another outcome indicator. Changes in travel times
(included in the M&E framework), variability of travel times (not included in the M&E
framework), and the incidence of accidents (included in the M&E framework, but limited
to the relatively small investments made in blackspot locations and the GH2 Bridge) are
more meaningful outcome indicators for road investments because they are more directly
linked to the investments.

38.     Overall, the choice of outcome indicators adequately reflects the achievement of
project objectives and impacts to intended beneficiaries. Savings in travel times and
reductions in the incidence of flood-related road closures both demonstrate an improved,
more accessible transport network and are critical drivers of logistics costs on which most
commercial activity depends. Though not solely determined by project investments,
freight volumes and freight tariffs were positively impacted and are both a reflection of
stimulated commerce.

39.     The three additional outcome indicators introduced by the additional financing
credit aimed to assess the transport efficiency and road safety impact of constructing the
GH2 Bridge. In preparation to their actual measurement, such indicators were slightly
adjusted by the Borrower to make them more useful. For example, the origin-destination
pair used for the first indicator—bus travel times between Bac Lieu and Dam Cung—was
changed to Tac Van-Dam Cung, as Tac Van was closer to the bridge and would better
isolate the bridge‘s impact on transit times. The second and third indicators—accident
and fatality rates on the bridge per 100 million vehicle-kilometers—were revised to only
measure the absolute value of accidents and fatalities, since their level was low enough
(e.g., one fatality registered in the year to December 2007) to limit the usefulness of
measurements relative to traffic. The revised indicators adequately reflect progress
relative to the PDO and are directly attributable to the GH2 Bridge investment.

40.     M&E implementation. Project indicators were measured by MoT and MoT-
retained consultants from records of traffic surveys and accident reporting. Baseline
measurement of most indicators did not become available until after the Mid-Term
Review. Periodic measurements were then conducted on time for 2006, 2007, and 2008,
before severely falling behind schedule in 2009-2011 (final measurements were delivered
at the time of completion reporting). Data quality and collection methods were
satisfactory, even if data delivery was late in many instances. In addition to indicator
measurement, project implementation monitoring was undertaken through monthly and
quarterly construction supervision reporting and external monitoring consultancies.
Annual financial audits were conducted by independent auditors and reviewed by IDA.

41.     M&E utilization. With the implementing agency overly focused on completion
of the physical construction of NH1, insufficient attention was paid to the activities that
were to support project management and reporting—particularly resettlement monitoring
and financial management. The outcome indicator on accidents at the nine blackspot
locations financed with Government funds (as opposed to IDA funds) was not measured,



                                            10
even though the relevance of doing so has little to do with the underlying financing
arrangements.
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42.     Environmental safeguards. The project was correctly classified as an
Environmental Category ‗A‘ operation. Identified risks were mostly construction-related
environmental impacts that could be appropriately mitigated through the enforcement of
contractor obligations under the agreed Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
However, the weak capacity (or, for a short period, absence) of environmental staff in
PMU1, combined with inadequate staffing of environmental specialists on the
construction supervision team and delays in the recruitment of an independent
environmental monitoring consultant, resulted in fairly significant breaches in traffic
safety and management practices, worker health and safety, and air, water, and ground
pollution at work sites and worker camps. Remedial actions were eventually implemented
to address these issues, including reinstatement and training of the environmental staff in
the PMU.

43.     PMU18, which implemented the JBIC-financed bridge works in close
coordination with PMU1, confirmed at the outset of the project that it would adopt (i)
Bank safeguard guidelines regarding environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement,
public consultations, and information disclosure, and (ii) the same compensation and
resettlement framework as that prepared for the MTFP project.

44.     Social safeguards. Despite delays in their implementation, the project complied
with agreed-upon social safeguards. The major civil works contracts required a
resettlement program that mainly involved land acquisition, house relocation, and
restoration of public facilities. Based on a preliminary inventory of affected assets and a
sample socioeconomic survey carried out in 1999, two RAPs were prepared. While RAPs
estimated that the project would impact 14,429 households, actual impacts were higher,
with 20,546 project affected households. Implementation of the resettlement program
would take approximately 30 months longer than originally planned (see Annex 4 for a
quantitative summary of project resettlement impacts).

45.     Upward cost revisions and delays in the resettlement program resulted from: (i)
technical design changes that introduced wider right-of-way specifications and required
additional planning time; (ii) compensation rate updating that consumed approximately
12 months; (iii) late approval of the revised resettlement budget; and (iv) recurrent and
insufficient financial allocations for resettlement. Much of the delays, however, were
satisfactorily dealt with by mid-2004 through closer IDA monitoring (e.g., the
establishment and enforcement of time-based milestones that set out to finalize the bulk
of resettlement compensation and site hand-over by the first half of 2005) and a much
stronger effort by PMU1 and MoT towards pushing for timely disbursements.

46.    In implementing social safeguards, adequate attention was paid to the needs of
ethnic minority groups. About 11 and 5 percent of PAPs in the Can Tho-Ca Mau section
belonged to the Khmer and Hoa minorities, respectively. The province with the highest

                                            11
proportion of ethnic minority PAPs was Soc Trang (31 percent Khmer, 9 percent Hoa).
An Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) was prepared and attached to the RAP
for the Can Tho-Nam Can corridor. Special training and assistance needs from ethnic
minority PAPs were identified through socioeconomic surveys and further confirmed
through public consultations. PMU1 prepared and implemented a rehabilitation program
for those families in accordance with the EMDP. The Bank provided regular guidance on
EMDP implementation and rehabilitation planning to PMU1-South staff, which had no
experience in ethnic minority issues prior to the project.

47.     Financial management. Preparation activities that were anticipated to strengthen
FM performance included training to PMU1 staff, improvements to the database used to
monitor resettlement compensation, and the development of accounting codes and
procedures to capture resettlement expenditures relative to physical progress indicators.
Additionally, the adoption of a financial management manual was established as an
effectiveness condition. Despite early efforts at entry, the first quarterly Project
Management Report (PMR) that was prepared by PMU1 was not completed until the
Third Quarter of 2003 and then submitted to IDA in early 2004, more than three years
after effectiveness. The report was of poor quality and unable to fulfill its intended
purposes.

48.     With IDA‘s guidance, PMR quality improved over time (though tardy
submissions continued) and the project remained FM-compliant at a ―minimum
satisfaction‖ level. However, there was an apparent disconnect between the project
maintaining a moderately satisfactory FM rating throughout implementation, while
supervision missions would later indicate that the FM manual, adopted at negotiations,
was not available as of mid 2006. To address these concerns, technical assistance for FM
strengthening was initiated in July 2006. The engagement focused on (i) developing and
readying the adoption of a (multi-project) FM manual, and (ii) providing training and
knowledge transfer. These goals had largely been attained by mid-2008 when the TA
contract ended. Still, no quarterly FMRs were submitted in 2008, and only by mid-2009
did submissions resume.

49.      Procurement. The procurement process for the major civil works was well
advanced at entry, with bidder pre-qualification having been launched 16 months prior to
project effectiveness. However contracts were awarded well behind the original schedule
(MD1, MD2, and FL1 contracts were signed in February 2003, 15 months behind
schedule, while the MD3 and FL2 contracts were signed nearly two years later than
originally expected). As highlighted above, a lack of clarity surrounding the issue of
MoT-dependent SOE eligibility to participate in the procurement of these contracts was
the culprit. The primary reason for this was the perceived lack of specificity regarding the
eligibility criteria stated in the Bank‘s procurement guidelines (including country-specific
waiver agreements), leading to different interpretations of the criteria by concerned
parties.

50.    Under the MDNI sub-component, four of the five civil works packages for the
upgrading of 28 kilometers of provincial roads had to be re-bid in October 2009, as

                                            12
PMU1 recommended the award of contracts that were not consistent with the eligibility
rules.

51.     During national competitive bidding (NCB) procurement for construction of three
distribution slabs (with an aggregate value of approximately US$3 million) to replace
failed approach embankments of three bridges in the MD2 section of NH1, the Bank
received in writing an anonymous allegation that collusive practices had taken place in
the award process. MoT carried out a two-pronged investigation (one conducted by
PMU1 and a parallel investigation through the Transport Construction Quality Control
and Management Bureau) that led to a request to rebid the packages. MoT issued a
decision to debar four firms for violations during the bidding process. The packages were
successfully re-bid, awarded, and implemented accordingly.
2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

52.    All NH1 and provincial road sections upgraded under the project were
successfully handed-over to their respective road management authorities for operations
and maintenance. Future focus on developing a national axle-load control program will
be important to ensuring proper asset preservation. The technical specifications for road
and bridge design standards developed as part of the project are under review and testing
by MoT‘s Department of Science and Technology to confirm the appropriateness of the
recommendations. Road Safety Audit Guidelines were adopted, contributed to activities
under the on-going Vietnam Road Safety Project, and have been mainstreamed into the
national road safety program.
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

53.      The project has been and continues to be relevant to Vietnam‘s development
priorities. By lowering transport and logistics costs and expanding access to a dependable
road network to previously underserved areas, including many rural communities, the
project continues to contribute to the country‘s trade competitiveness in an inclusive way.
This is fully consistent with the current 2007-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS),
where two of the four pillars of strategic engagement are to improve the business
environment and to strengthen social inclusion. Moreover, since Vietnam‘s accession to
the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2006, the relevance of improving transport
competitiveness has only increased, as the country is increasingly open to competition in
global markets.

54.     The justification for the chosen project investments is quite evident. The road
segments between Ca Mau and Nam Can represented the last sections of NH1 that
required upgrading. Pre-project, connectivity in this area was poor and significantly
below NH1 standards elsewhere in the network. Similarly, the Can Tho-Ca Mau road
section lacked shoulders over most of its length. Slower traffic was forced onto the main
roadway, reducing travel speeds, increasing travel time variability, and creating safety
hazards which led to elevated accident rates. The project has successfully addressed these

                                            13
bottlenecks through expanded and upgraded road assets that remain in satisfactory
working condition.
3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

55.      MTFP broadly achieved its PDO. Specifically, the project was able to:

     Stimulate the commercial use of an improved transportation network, by upgrading
      234 kilometers of NH1 in the Mekong Delta and better connecting towns and cities
      along the segment to larger markets like Can Tho, HCMC, and beyond. Freight
      volumes between Can Tho and HCMC increased by an annual average rate of 9.6
      percent; bus travel times between Can Tho and Ca Mau were reduced by 25 percent;
      and bus travel times between Ca Mau and Nam Can were reduced by nearly 70
      percent;
     Improve access to rural areas by connecting them to the main trade and movement
      corridors, by upgrading 98 kilometers of rural and provincial roads in the Mekong
      Delta network and by connecting the southern town of Nam Can to NH1; and
     Ensure permanent access to regular flood-prone areas, by increasing the flood
      resiliency of nearly 40 kilometers of NH1 in central Vietnam. The duration of road
      closures in relevant locations was more than halved by year-end 2005 after
      improvements to meet a 10-year recurrence flood severity factor.

56.    Eight out of ten outcome indicator targets were fully attained, supporting the
above conclusion. With regard to the remaining two outcome indicators: (i) accident
reductions were not measured for the Government-funded blackspot removal, while no
accidents had been reported after the first two months of operations at the IDA-funded
blackspot treatment locations (compared to a historical monthly average of 2.7
accidents); and (ii) reductions in the incidence of overloading recorded at permanent
weigh stations were not measured since weigh station works were cancelled.

57.      Although not explicitly stated in the PDO, the project sought to strengthen
transport sector institutions through various capacity building and technical assistance
activities. In this regard, performance and outcomes were mixed. While updated heavy
load control and blackspot treatment manuals were successfully completed, with MoT
issuing guidelines for conducting road safety audits, updated road and bridge design
standards had yet to be adopted at the time of completion reporting. Moreover, technical
assistance intended to strengthen MoT‘s long-term strategy, planning, staffing, and
management functions (including the development and rollout of an appropriate IT
architecture) was cancelled.
3.3      Efficiency

58.    An economic cost-benefit analysis was conducted to evaluate the returns to the
two largest project investments in the Mekong Delta—the upgrading of 180 kilometers of
NH1 between Can Tho and Ca Mau, and the upgrading of 54 kilometers of NH1 between
Ca Mau and Nam Can—from a post-implementation standpoint. These investments


                                            14
together account for 85 percent of total civil works expenditures under the project and for
98 percent of total land acquisition and resettlement compensation expenditures.

59.     In order to assess changes in the estimated economic returns over the 12-year
preparation and implementation cycle, a similar analytical approach to that used at
appraisal has been undertaken at completion. Net benefit and cost calculations for the
ICR economic analysis were based on: (i) pre- and post-project historical traffic
measurements, (ii) updated traffic forecasts over an 18-year horizon (through 2028), (iii)
updated benefit and cost parameter unit values, and (iv) final project implementation
costs (including counterpart and cofinancier funds) and construction schedules. The
resulting Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) estimates, by road section, are shown
in Table 1 (full details are presented in Annex 3).
                Table 1. Estimated Economic Returns to Project Investments

                                     Upgrading of              Upgrading of
                                   Can Tho-Ca Mau            Ca Mau-Nam Can
                                    section of NH1            section of NH1
                                   PAD           ICR         PAD          ICR
            EIRR (in percent)       14.6         16.8         21.0        41.2



60.     The ICR-stage EIRR is estimated to be 16.8 percent and 41.2 percent,
respectively, for the Can Tho-Ca Mau and Ca Mau-Nam Can sections of NH1. Updated
return estimates are roughly in line with appraisal estimates in the first road section, and
significantly higher than appraisal estimates in the second road section. While it is clear
that numerous deviations from the assumptions and projections utilized at appraisal have
materialized over the past 12 years, the significant cost escalations and implementation
delays observed were either roughly offset (in the Can Tho-Ca Mau case) or more than
offset (in the Ca Mau-Nam Can case) by higher than anticipated traffic volumes, more
robust design standards, and better than expected travel time and safety performance. The
large difference in estimated returns for the upgrading of the Ca Mau-Nam Can section at
completion relative to appraisal is due to markedly better historical travel time
performance post-completion: while it was estimated at appraisal that buses would make
the 54-kilometer journey in 120 minutes by the first year of operations, the actual travel
time observed was 67 minutes, or almost a full hour faster than originally modeled. It is
concluded that investments made in both sections remain economically justified.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

61.     The rating for the project‘s achievement of overall outcomes is moderately
satisfactory in that (i) the objectives of the project remain highly relevant to the
country‘s development priorities, and (ii) the economic efficiency of the investments as
assessed post-implementation is above the reference 12 percent opportunity cost of

                                            15
capital. However, though most outcome and intermediate indicators were substantially
attained, the implementation horizon was nearly twice as long as originally envisaged and
required additional financing in order to achieve its expected outputs.

62.      The project succeeded in increasing competitiveness in the Mekong Delta by
reducing transport costs, improving travel times, and expanding road network access.
Such impact is further evidenced by a noticeable increase in economic activity along the
southernmost segments of NH1, where (i) shops and businesses have sprung up in and
around Nam Can, (ii) buses run constantly up and down the Can Tho-Ca Mau route, and
(iii) trucks can more efficiently serve the southern provinces of Ca Mau, Bac Lieu, and
Soc Trang to and from larger market-gateways like Can Tho and greater HCMC. Road
network reliability was also improved in central Vietnam by reducing NH1 closures
through flood-prone areas. However, many of the project‘s beneficiaries—especially
local populations living in and around the NH1 Can Tho-Nam Can corridor—could have
received the investment benefits earlier with more efficient implementation.

63.     From a quality assurance and engineering perspective, final inspection of the fully
completed NH1 road sections in both the Mekong Delta and the central coastal area
concluded that the quality of construction was very good. Furthermore, MoT‘s own
internal evaluation considered the quality of works and hand-over process to local road
management authorities exemplary.
3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

64.     The project‘s most immediate outcome was to lower transport and logistics costs
while expanding access to dependable roads in both rural and urban communities.
Ultimately, however, the project most likely contributed to poverty reduction in the
targeted areas through job creation and income growth. This is due to the derived nature
of transport demand, where transport and logistics demand growth is itself derived from
consumption demand and overall economic growth, which in turn are typically associated
with improvements in standards of living. For example, between 2002 and 2010, the
average income per capita in Ca Mau, Bac Lieu, Soc Trang, and Can Tho provinces grew
at an average annual rate of 5.5, 6.0, 5.7, and 8.2 percent, respectively, in real terms. In
all cases, the rate of growth was higher than that of HCMC (4.9 percent), where most of
the region‘s economic activity is concentrated.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

65.     An unexpected (positive) institutional development impact delivered under the
project was the harmonization of a multi-project financial management manual, which
would ultimately be adopted for future Bank-financed projects and contribute to stronger
fiduciary compliance.
3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
       Not applicable.

                                            16
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
       Rating: Moderate.

66.     The rating for risk to development outcome is considered moderate. The assets
developed under the project, particularly those along NH1, will continue to retain
strategic importance for the government, as NH1 not only represents Vietnam‘s highway
backbone but is the primary thoroughfare connecting greater HCMC with the southern
provinces. The fact that NH1 and MDNI rehabilitation works continue to perform
satisfactorily after several years of operation, and that routine maintenance has taken
place in most of the early-work segments, is evidence that the development outcomes
achieved are likely to be sustainable. The moderate risk rating reflects the fact that
periodic maintenance (e.g., every 8-10 years) remains a future event that, if not properly
managed, may potentially endanger the asset‘s full lifecycle. Continued engagement
through the proposed Bank-financed Vietnam Road Asset Management Program
(VRAMP) is expected to support Vietnam‘s road management strategy for prioritization
of preventive maintenance. Furthermore, in rapidly growing regions like the Mekong
Delta there is a risk that road travel demand may grow faster than anticipated, causing
higher than expected congestion and accident rates and leading project investments to
reach capacity considerably sooner. As such, rating the risk to development outcome as
moderate is considered appropriate.
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

67.      Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.
Quality at entry could have been strengthened through more robust risk mitigation
measures. Still, strong effort was devoted to early completion of many preparation tasks,
including the readiness of detailed engineering designs, the setup of a more transparent
compensation and reporting mechanism by the implementing agency, and the training of
PMU1 staff in order to better manage resettlement activities. However, preparation of
institutional strengthening activities could have been more closely aligned with
government sector priorities to foster greater ownership of outcomes.
(b)    Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

68.     The moderately satisfactory rating for quality of supervision balances offsetting
performance levels in the project‘s implementation record. On the one hand, long delays
in the procurement and implementation of five major ICB contracts were reflective of the
timing of IDA management‘s decisions on SOE eligibility. Ultimately, the Bank was able
to provide a level of flexibility that would support the client in its ability to meet intended


                                              17
objectives in light of identified sector constraints, though responses could have been
more expedient.

69.     At a project management level, the task team remained committed to ensuring the
best possible outcome. The resolution of several challenges, such as the lack of working
capital at project sites, delays in the flow of counterpart funds for resettlement
compensation, or enabling the client to meet its monitoring and reporting obligations, was
ultimately resolved through tighter supervision. Regular supervision missions were
conducted as planned and task management decisions were generally communicated in a
clear and timely manner. A number of just-in-time monitoring missions were also
conducted to look more closely at particular areas, such as the technical audit and the
environmental and social safeguards compliance reviews. These were planned with more
flexibility in order to respond quickly to issues as they arose.


(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

70.     The overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, reflecting the
above ratings on quality at entry and quality of supervision, balanced by a moderately
satisfactory Outcome rating. The supervision team made a strong effort to prepare and
supervise a project in a challenging sector environment. Such effort ultimately allowed
the project to deliver on most of its intended development objectives, but moderate
shortcomings contributed to delays that affected performance efficiency.
5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

71.     Government performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory. The rating
reflects shortcomings with regard to several critical issues. The lack of coordination
between MoT and MoF for budgeting and appropriation of resettlement funding was a
systemic issue impacting early implementation. Repeated requests for policy waivers on
SOE eligibility were likely indicative of MoT‘s marginal commitment to market reform
in the transport sector. Efforts were made to overcome the issue of non-compliance with
prime contractors through agreed physical and financial progress targets. However,
contract penalties were not imposed, as this may have resulted in contractor resistance
due to the Borrower's delays in construction site handover. While the Government‘s
commitment to the project‘s development objectives was sufficient to eventually and
substantially meet the target outcomes and outputs, its performance reveals priority areas
for improvement that can inform further institutional strengthening.




                                           18
(b)    Implementing Agency Performance
       Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

72.     Implementing agency performance is assessed as moderately unsatisfactory.
This reflects significant shortcomings in PMU1 management of many aspects of
implementation. PMU1 contributed to project bottlenecks through ineffective contract
management, lack of sufficient ownership of supervision responsibilities, and weak
efforts to obtain funding and complete resettlement activities in a timely manner. Other
gaps in performance include inadequate attention to implementation of environmental
safeguards staffing and monitoring requirements, overall poor quality and late submission
of quarterly management and financial management reports, and delays in reporting
performance indicators.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

73.     The Borrower‘s overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Though
outcome indicators point to a project that substantially achieved its development
objective, it did so several years later than originally planned and at a much lower
efficiency rate than might have been possible with a stronger, more dedicated
implementation performance on the part of both the implementing agency and project
owner.

6.     Lessons Learned

74.     Further engagement between the Bank and Government on how best to
support the transformation of Vietnam’s road construction industry—from a sector
dominated by state-owned enterprises to a competitive and efficient market—must
look beyond the issue of procurement eligibility under a stand-alone investment
project. Given the complexity of the issue, the Bank will likely need to use a variety of
mechanisms to engage both MoT and the Government on ways for eliminating conflict of
interest and improving financial transparency in the use of public funds in the road sector.
In the near term, however, it is expected that the Bank will issue a Guidance Note on
Eligibility which provides more explicit guidance on how to evaluate and determine
bidder eligibility given the current status of the equitiziation process in MoT‘s SOEs.
Delivery of such guidance can be further strengthened through a variety of dissemination
tools, including, inter alia, concise guidance notes to Project Management Units,
interactive in-country workshops and targeted training, research reports, and ongoing
Bank-Government dialogue.

75.      Measures to strengthen both contract management and project management
remain an immediate need. The project demonstrated how the use of time-bound action
plans based on measurable, achievable metrics (and monitored on a monthly basis) is an
effective approach to mitigating construction contract noncompliance risks. Enforcing
realistic work schedules, introducing more stringent oversight of social and
environmental policies, and ensuring working capital availability highlight that effective
contract supervision often relies on implementing agency capacity and proactive

                                            19
guidance. When such action plans are not implemented accordingly, the project owner
must be willing to act upon a credible sanctions regime for meeting contractual
obligations. However, ambiguity in the principle-agent relationship (e.g., project owners
and state-owned contractors) poses challenges in proper application of enforcement
measures.

76.     Better management of capital resources can improve implementation
efficiency and reduce delays. A more accurate estimation and subsequent timely
availability of counterpart funds, particularly for land acquisition and resettlement, would
help keep projects within their expected delivery schedule. Additionally, stronger
coordination and supervision of parallel-financed donor activities (such as the JBIC-
financed bridges) could contribute to a more efficient utilization of funds. The lesson can
also be applied to SOEs, as mobilization of capital is hindered by their financial capacity.

77.      Definition of PDO should reflect all project components. The definition of the
PDO largely excluded the goals pursued under the institutional strengthening component.
As a result, no PDO-level performance indicator targeted TA-based activities, such as
MoT management strengthening or the official adoption of updated road and bridge
standards. Such omission might have contributed to the project‘s mixed performance on
institutional strengthening.



7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies
       No comments were received.


(b)    Cofinanciers
       No comments were received.




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                           Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
          Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                              millions)
 Upgrading of 180 km of
Highway 1 between Can Tho and               76.21              130.93                   172%
Ca Mau
 Upgrading of 54 km of Highway
1 between Ca Mau and Nam Can
and 12 Selected National and                18.09                  49.79                275%
Provincial Road Sections totaling
128 km
 Protection of an Aggregate of
38.8 km of 17 Flood-prone
                                            20.24                  18.89                 93%
sections of Highway 1 between
Dong Ha and Quang Ngai
 Institutional Strengthening and
Capacity Building developed
under HRP1 and HRP2; Studies to              7.01                  18.88                269%
prepare Future Road Maintenance
Project

            Total Baseline Cost            121.55                  218.49               180%
Physical Contingencies
                                             6.72                    0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            15.64                    0.00
             Total Project Costs           143.91                  218.49               152%
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                    0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                    0.00
     Total Financing Required              143.91                  218.49               152%


(b) Financing

                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  33.91       75.52       223%
International Development
                                                          110.00            142.97         130%
Association (IDA)




                                               21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                                                    Financing
  Component                   PAD                            At Project Completion
                                                                                                     Source
Upgrading of     Upgrading of 180 kilometers of      All completed.                             Original Credit
180 kilometers   NH1 between Can Tho and Ca
of Highway 1     Mau from 7.0-7.5 meter standard
between Can      width formation to a
Tho and Ca Mau   minimum12.0-15.0 meter
in the Mekong    standard width formation,
Delta            depending on area type (rural,
                 minor urban, and major urban).

                 Rehabilitation of 180 kilometers    All completed.                             Original Credit
                 of NH1 between Can Tho and
                 Ca Mau from IRI 6-8 to IRI 3.

                 Rehabilitation or replacement of    All completed.                             Original Credit
                 bridges with a span not
                 exceeding 25 meters.

                                                     Three distribution slabs to treat          Original Credit
                                                     collapsed bridge approaches at Chiet
                                                     Nieu and Su Son (in the Bac Lieu-Ca
                                                     Mau segment of the target Can Tho-Ca
                                                     Mau section) were implemented by
                                                     project completion.

                                                     The 600 meter long, 12 meter wide          Additional
                                                     Ganh Hao II (GH2) Bridge was               Financing Credit
                                                     constructed along NH1 in Ca Mau city
                                                     as a parallel structure to the existing
                                                     Ganh Hao Bridge. The rationale for
                                                     construction was to alleviate a major
                                                     bottleneck at the original bridge, since
                                                     NH1 on both sides of the bridge had
                                                     been widened under the project,
                                                     creating travel delays and safety
                                                     hazards for traffic using a narrower
                                                     bridge link.GH2 Bridge works had not
                                                     been contemplated at appraisal.




                                                22
                                                                                                        Financing
  Component                      PAD                             At Project Completion
                                                                                                         Source
Upgrading of       Upgrading of 54 kilometers of          All completed.                            Original Credit
182 kilometers     NH1 between Ca Mau and Nam
of national and    Can from a limited paved and
provincial roads   majority earthen section to a
in the extended    minimum 9.0 meter standard
Mekong Delta       width formation.
transport system
covering 18
provinces          Rehabilitation of 54 kilometers        All completed.                            Original Credit
                   of NH1 between Ca Mau and
                   Nam Can from IRI 6-8 to IRI 3.



                   Rehabilitation of 128 kilometers       Rehabilitation of 98 kilometers was       70 kilometers
                   of national and provincial roads       successfully completed. Detailed          from Original
                   in the extended Mekong Delta           designs for the remaining 30 kilometers   Credit; 28
                   network from IRI 8-10 to               were developed.                           kilometers and
                   IRI 4-5.                                                                         detailed designs
                                                                                                    for remaining 30
                                                                                                    kilometers from
                                                                                                    Additional
                                                                                                    Financing Credit


                                                          Six bridges located in the Dam Cung-      Original Credit
                                                          Nam Can segment of the target Ca
                                                          Mau-Nam Can section, which were not
                                                          contemplated at appraisal, were also
                                                          upgraded by project completion.

Protection of an   Protection of 39 kilometers of         All completed.                            Original Credit
aggregate 38.8     central coastal area NH1 from 1-
kilometers of 17   3 year recurrence flood factor to
flood-prone        10-year recurrence flood factor.
sections of
Highway 1
between Dong
Ha and Quang
Ngai in the
central coastal
area




                                                     23
                                                                                                       Financing
  Component                      PAD                            At Project Completion
                                                                                                        Source
Institutional      Implementation of axle load and      Technical assistance to VRA to             Original Credit
strengthening      blackspot removal program with       strengthen institutional enforcement for
                   VRA; provision of 10 mobile          Heavy Loading Management was
                   scales and installation of three     completed. However, the axle load
                   permanent weigh stations.            control program was not implemented,
                                                        following the Government‘s decision of
                                                        cancelling the installation of three
                                                        permanent weigh stations and the
                                                        procurement of 10 mobile scales (the
                                                        cancellation decision stemmed from the
                                                        Government‘s assessment that more
                                                        time was needed to develop a
                                                        comprehensive national Heavy Load
                                                        Control master plan).

                                                        The blackspot removal program was
                                                        only partially completed. It originally
                                                        envisaged the treatment of 12 blackspot
                                                        locations. By project completion, nine
                                                        such locations had been treated with
                                                        Government funds, and two additional
                                                        locations were financed and
                                                        implemented under MTFP.
                   Implementation of a                  System was not implemented at the          N/A
                   management information system        Government‘s request.
                   (long-term strategy, planning,
                   and information management)
                   with MoT.
                   Implementation of new road and       Technical specifications for new road      Original Credit
                   bridge standards.                    and bridge design standards were
                                                        developed and are currently under
                                                        review and testing by MoT‘s
                                                        Department of Science and
                                                        Technology.
                   Updating of road safety audit        Completed. A Road Safety Audit             Original Credit
                   and blackspot removal                Manual was developed, which led to
                   guidelines.                          the issuance of MoT Decision
                                                        23/BGTVT (May 2007) on road safety.
                   Final design of a future road        Completed. The project funded              Original Credit
                   maintenance project                  consultant services required for
                                                        preparation of the next World Bank
                                                        financed project in the sector –
                                                        Vietnam Road Network Improvement
                                                        Project.
                   Support to PMU1 on project           Completed. Activities to support           Original Credit
                   implementation.                      project implementation included
                                                        environmental monitoring, resettlement
                                                        monitoring, training to improve
                                                        financial management, and annual
                                                        project auditing and project evaluation.
Notes:
N/A = Not applicable.



                                                   24
Annex 3. Economic Analysis

1.      An economic analysis was carried out at project completion in order to estimate
the ex-post economic internal rate of return (EIRR) associated with key project
investments relative to what was estimated at appraisal. The purpose of the ex-post
economic evaluation is to determine whether the target investments remain economically
viable after taking into consideration actual economic implementation costs and
construction schedules, actual changes in travel times and accident rates, and historical
levels and updated projections of travel demand.

2.     The ex-post economic analysis was carried out only for the project‘s road and
bridge upgrading investments on NH1 in the Mekong Delta (180 kilometers between Can
Tho and Ca Mau, and 54 kilometers between Ca Mau and Nam Can). These were by far
the project‘s largest, most operationally complex investments, and were subject to the
vast majority of the construction delays, variation orders, and resettlement cost revisions
encountered over the project‘s life. More specifically, the Can Tho–Nam Can corridor
upgrading investments (including the construction of the GH2 Bridge in Ca Mau city and
three distribution slabs in the Bac Lieu–Ca Mau segment, IDA‘s upgrading of six
additional bridges in the Ca Mau–Nam Can section originally assigned to JBIC, and
JBIC‘s replacement or upgrading of bridges with a span longer than 25 meters between
Can Tho and Ca Mau) accounted for 85% of the cost of all civil works under the project
and 98% of all land acquisition and resettlement compensation expenses.

3.      An ex-post economic evaluation of the flood protection works along 38.8
kilometers of NH1 between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai in central Vietnam was not carried
out due to (i) the small size of the component relative to that of the NH1 works in the
Mekong Delta, and (ii) the unavailability of critical data inputs with which to carry out
the analysis, particularly with regard to expected rainfall levels by severity range.
Similarly, as the MDNI civil works investments were appraised on the basis of multi-
criteria analysis rather than a more focused benefit-cost approach, no post-project
economic evaluation was carried out for that component.
Methodology and Assumptions

4.     A standard discounted resource flow analysis of the project‘s net benefits and
costs was conducted to evaluate the economic viability of the target interventions relative
to a business-as-usual baseline, where the latter entails a simulation of what would have
happened had the project not been implemented. For each of the Can Tho–Ca Mau and
Ca Mau–Nam Can sections of NH1, an economic net present value (ENPV) and an EIRR
were estimated. For comparative purposes, the approach is consistent with the
methodology utilized to appraise the investments prior to implementation.

5.      The analysis is based on actual, as-reported data on implementation schedules,
financial costs (including construction expenditures, land acquisition and resettlement
compensation, and routine and periodic maintenance expenditures), traffic levels by
vehicle type, and injury-only and fatality accidents, over the 2003-2011 period (i.e., the

                                            25
actual implementation period). It is also based on (i) updated forecasts for projected
annual traffic levels and maintenance expenditures through 2028; and (ii) updated
valuation parameters, such as vehicle operating costs (VOCs), value of time indicators,
and cost of accidents indicators. The general approach to developing traffic forecasts and
updating valuation parameters was to adopt a conservative view, by keeping their values
towards the lower end of their most likely interval range. This was done in order to
increase the confidence level associated with the resulting estimates and analytical
conclusions about the economic viability of the project investments.

6.     For each of the two target NH1 sections, two development alternatives were
considered: (i) the observed investments (or ―with-project‖ scenario), which comprise
road widening and upgrading works (including capacity expansions of 70% or more,
depending on the link, and reductions in International Roughness Index [IRI] ratings
from the 6-8+ that existed pre-project to 3) and the replacement or upgrading of bridges
of various spans; and (ii) the counterfactual (or ―without-project‖) scenario, under
which it is assumed that the target roads retain the same IRI rating and capacity
conditions they held at the start of the project, with only routine and periodic
maintenance taking place through 2028 (i.e., a continuation of business as usual). This is
the same counterfactual scenario as that assumed in the economic evaluation conducted at
appraisal.
Estimation of Economic Benefits

7.      Three types of economic benefits were considered as directly associated with the
with-project scenario relative to business as usual: time savings, VOC savings, and safety
improvements. All three benefits would accrue to all types of motorized travelers along
the target road assets.

8.      Time savings. Road upgrading works carried out under the project resulted in
significant improvements in average and maximum travel speeds, which in turn led to
time savings to road users. Table A3.1 shows the estimated value of time in the project
area for 2011, based on a prevailing average wage level of VND6,818 per hour (in VND
of 2011) in the Mekong Delta region, and adjusted for (a) the average occupancy by
vehicle type, (b) the relative time sensitivity of travelers by vehicle type and by road
section. The value of time parameters were grown in future years based on the projected
real growth of GDP per capita for Vietnam, as shown in Table A3.2.

          Table A3.1. Estimated Average Value of Time per Vehicle by Target NH1 Section
                                    VND per hour at 2011 prices

                                                                   2-axle     3-axle      4 or more
Section            Motorbike      Car       Small Bus Large Bus    Truck      Truck      axle Truck
Can Tho-Ca Mau          10,227     20,455      40,477     86,060    10,542     16,271       16,271
Ca Mau-Nam Can           6,136     12,273      24,286     51,636      6,325      9,763       9,763

 Source: Team estimates, with wage data from PMU1.

                                                26
                        Table A3.2. Projected Real Growth in Value of Time
                                            2011 = 1.00
                 2011              2015             2020           2025              2028
                 1.00              1.25             1.67           2.17              2.53

             Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Team estimates.



9.      VOC savings. A primary objective of any highway improvement project is to
make road use more affordable to drivers. VOCs represent the cost to road users of
operating and maintaining their vehicles attributable to the use of a given road. They
include cost items like fuel, maintenance and repair, and depreciation costs, and are
primarily influenced by road quality (as measured by the IRI index) and average speed
level (which in turn is determined by road capacity and prevailing congestion levels). As
roads are rehabilitated (reducing IRI), unit VOCs tend also to reduce, yielding savings to
motorized travelers. As roads are upgraded (e.g., widened), their capacity to
accommodate traffic increases, allowing for higher speeds and less idling, which also
generally results in lower unit VOCs. Table A3.3 summarizes the unit VOCs used in the
analysis by vehicle type, showing how they vary by IRI rating.


                          Table A3.3. Unit Vehicle Operating Costs by IRI Category
                                           VND per km (2011 prices)

 Road           Average                                                   2-axle     3-axle    4 or more
                           Motorbike      Car      Small Bus Large Bus
 Condition        IRI                                                     Truck      Truck     axle Truck

 Good             3-4             611      4,335      4,599      9,280      5,413      9,402      14,062
 Fair             5-8             814      4,681      5,088     10,379      6,309     10,786      16,484
 Poor             8+              814      4,965      5,657     11,518      6,878     11,783      18,050

 Source: MDTIDP, HDM-4 Road User Costs Model, Team estimates.



10.     Savings from improved road safety. Widening works carried out under the
project, which added shoulder formations to various segments of the target corridor in
order to help separate light/slow traffic from heavy/fast traffic, were expected to make
travel significantly safer. Table A3.4 shows the assumed accident rates over the full Can
Tho–Nam Can corridor, for the with- and without-project scenarios, based on historical
rates as reported by Provincial authorities and on attained improvements by similar road
improvement projects in the Mekong Delta.




                                                     27
 Table A3.4. Assumed Accident Rates Along the Can Tho - Nam Can Corridor of NH1
                     Accidents per 100 million vehicle-kilometers

                               Without Project            With Project
                  Fatal               21                       8
                  Injury              194                     49


   Source: Provincial authorities, Team estimates.



11.     Following similar work carried out under the Bank-financed Mekong Delta
Transport Infrastructure Development Project (MDTIDP), which comprises multiple road
improvement components in the Southeastern Mekong Delta, the cost associated with
fatal and injury-only road accidents along the target corridor was estimated by adjusting
the MDTIDP cost estimates for inflation and to reflect intra-regional disparities in
average wages. Such costs, which result from lost output, medical and administrative
expenses, suffering, and property damage, are shown in table A3.5.


            Table A3.5. Assumed Cost of Accidents Along the Target Corridor
                              Millions of VND (2011 prices)

                              Fatal Accidents                      Cost
                              Can Tho-Ca Mau                       244
                              Ca Mau-Nam Can                       195

                              Injury-only Accidents                Cost
                              Can Tho-Ca Mau                        71
                              Ca Mau-Nam Can                        57

               Source: MDTIDP, Team estimates.



Travel Demand

12.     Net benefits from the project are ultimately realized through the amount and mix
of traffic that the target roads are able to capture. To quantify net benefits, historical
travel demand data by vehicle type was used for the 2007-2010 period (with 2007 being
the first year of post-project operations) while traffic projections were developed for
2011-2028. The latter projections were obtained through a spreadsheet-based model that
estimates future traffic growth patterns based on (i) the historical relation between GDP
growth and traffic growth in the target corridor (with historical data used for that purpose
going back to 2002), (ii) expected future levels of real GDP growth, and (iii) expected

                                                     28
shifts in the composition of the vehicle fleet in the target area. For example, it is expected
that, as the target region continues to develop and household incomes rise in real terms,
the share of motorbikes in the vehicle fleet will reduce, while that of cars (primarily) and
cargo trucks (secondarily) will increase.

13.     Both future and historical (post-construction) traffic flows were disaggregated
into two streams for analytical purposes: (i) normal traffic, defined as the traffic that
would have materialized even if the project had not taken place; and (ii) generated traffic,
defined as the traffic that is estimated to have materialized only because of the project
being implemented. Generated traffic was assumed to be 20% of normal traffic for the
Can Tho–Ca Mau segment, where a fully operational, asphalt-surfaced carriageway
existed pre-project, about 85% of which in fair condition (with the rest in poor condition).
For the Ca Mau–Nam Can segment generated traffic was assumed to be much higher as a
percentage of normal traffic: 60% for the Ca Mau–Dam Cung segment, where an earthen
surface and a sand road base existed pre-project (except for an initial six kilometers of
paved road), and 80% for the Dam Cung-Nam Can segment, where only a road track
existed pre-project. Generated traffic was allocated to the various road segments within
each section during the first year of project operation and assumed to grow at the same
rate as normal traffic thereafter.

14.   Table A3.6 shows projected traffic growth rates for the two target sections. The
GDP growth projections driving future traffic growth are presented in Table A3.7.


Estimation of Economic Costs

15.     For each target section, financial capital and operating costs were converted into
economic costs by excluding all transfer payments (such as taxes and financing costs), as
the latter do not represent economic resource costs. Specifically, Vietnam‘s 10% value
added tax was excluded from all base capital costs. Furthermore, and consistent with
estimates used in other Bank-financed projects in Vietnam, a conversion factor of 0.95
was applied to construction and maintenance costs in order to remove labor and other
indirect taxes. A conversion factor of 0.97 was applied to construction preparation and
supervision services (e.g., detailed design engineering, construction and engineering
monitoring, project management, and quality assurance).

16.    All costs (as well as benefits) included in the economic analysis are expressed in
real (2011) Vietnamese dong, as adjusted by the national consumer price index. No
adjustment to reflect the economic cost of foreign exchange when mobilizing foreign
financing was considered necessary.

17.     Table A3.8 summarizes the economic costs incurred under the project for the
upgrading of the Can Tho–Nam Can corridor. Table A3.9 presents historical and
projected economic maintenance costs.




                                             29
Table A3.6. Historical and Projected Traffic Growth Rates, 2002-2028
                   Average annual growth, in percent
                            Can Tho – Ca Mau         Ca Mau – Nam Can
 Vehicle Type                               2002-2010
 Motorbike                         7.7                       30.6
 Car                               15.3                      23.2
 Small Bus                         7.6                       24.2
 Large Bus                         7.7                       N/M
 2-axle Truck                      14.3                      42.6
 3-axle Truck                      26.5                      N/M
 4 or more axle Truck              37.2                      N/M
 All                               8.4                       30.6
                                             2010-2020
 Motorbike                         7.0                       8.1
 Car                               12.2                      11.2
 Small Bus                         7.8                       9.8
 Large Bus                         10.8                      11.2
 2-axle Truck                      10.2                      10.4
 3-axle Truck                      14.4                      10.7
 4 or more axle Truck              14.0                      14.8
 All                               7.7                       8.2
                                             2020-2028
 Motorbike                         4.7                       5.6
 Car                               7.4                       12.9
 Small Bus                         4.4                       5.9
 Large Bus                         7.6                       7.4
 2-axle Truck                      7.0                       7.5
 3-axle Truck                      8.7                       9.1
 4 or more axle Truck              7.4                       6.2
 All                               5.2                       5.8
  N/M = not meaningful.
  Source: Team estimates.



         Table A3.7. Historical and Projected Rates of GDP Growth
                    Average annual growth rates, in percent

                      2002-2010     2010-2020      2020-2028
                         7.3           7.0            6.5

           Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Team estimates.


                                    30
 Table A3.8. Economic Costs for the Can Tho - Nam Can MTFP Investments
                        Billions of VND (2011 prices)

 Cost Category                            Can Tho – Ca Mau\1          Ca Mau – Nam Can\2

 Construction Costs                                         3,763                           745
 Land Acquisition and Resettlement                          2,176                             83
 Preparation and Supervision                                  710                             56
 Total                                                     6,650                            884

 Notes:
 1\ Includes JBIC-financed bridge upgrading/replacement works along the full section, and the
 construction of three distribution slabs in the Bac Lieu - Ca Mau segment.
 2\ Includes construction of GH2 Bridge and upgrading of additional six bridges financed by
 IDA (originally expected to receive JBIC financing).




Table A3.9. Economic Maintenance Costs for the Can Tho - Nam Can Corridor
                        Billions of VND (2011 prices)


                                         With Project                    Without Project
                                    Can Tho–     Ca Mau–              Can Tho–    Ca Mau–
Cost Category                        Ca Mau      Nam Can               Ca Mau     Nam Can

Historical Routine Maintenance \1
 2007                                        3.8              1.2              2.6              0.8
 2008                                        3.6              1.1              2.5              0.8
 2009                                        4.6              1.5              3.2              1.0
 2010                                        8.3              2.9              4.1              1.3
 2011                                        9.1              2.8              3.7              1.2

Projected annual routine
maintenance, 2012-2028                     14.5               3.8              3.7              1.1
Projected Periodic
Maintenance (every 5 years)               163.2              42.8            49.7             14.6

Notes:
1\ Data are actuals for the "With Project" scenario and estimates for the counterfactual "Without
Project" scenario.
Source: PMU1, Team estimates.


                                               31
18.     Properly maintained, project-financed road investments are expected to remain in
satisfactory operating condition through 2028 (marking 20 years of full-year operations).
It was assumed that by that year 30% of the original construction costs would be salvaged
as residual value under the with-project scenario. No residual value recovery was
assumed under the business-as-usual scenario.
Results

19.     Benefits and costs were quantified on a net basis using incremental analysis. Net
benefits refer to savings obtained when comparing the cost of economic resources (e.g.,
time used for travel) incurred under the with-project scenario to those that would have
been incurred under the without-project scenario. Net economic costs are defined as the
sum of capital (e.g., construction, supervision, land acquisition and resettlement) and
operating (e.g., maintenance) costs generated under the with-project scenario above and
beyond those that would have been generated under the without-project scenario.

Time Savings to Road Users

20.     Table A3.10 shows historical and projected (as modeled) travel times for each of
the target sections. It is estimated that by 2011 project investments had generated time
savings of more than four hours for travelers over the full length of the Can Tho-Nam
Can corridor compared to business as usual, and time savings were projected to increase
through at least 2020. In the Can Tho–Ca Mau segment, time savings are projected to
decrease between 2020 and 2025 due to the expectation of much higher economic and
travel demand growth under the with-project scenario, which at that point in the horizon
would result in a reduction of some of the time savings gained in previous years. The
valuation of the projected time savings is presented in Table A3.11, based on the value-
of-time parameters presented in Table A3.1 (as adjusted over time by the growth factors
shown in Table A3.2).


            Table A3.10. Historical and Projected Travel Times by Segment
                                        Minutes

                                       2007        2011       2015        2020      2025
          Can Tho – Ca Mau
           With Project                 180        184         231        313       385
           Without Project              239        296         402        519       540
           Saving                        58        112         171        206       155

          Ca Mau – Nam Can
           With Project                  67         67          79        102       128
           Without Project              209        215         230        266       306
           Saving                       141        148         151        164       178

          Source: historical data from PMU1, projections based on Team estimates.

                                                 32
              Table A3.11. Projected Net Savings from Faster Travel Times
                               Billions of VND (2011 prices)
                                                                             4 or more
                                   Small     Large     2-axle     3-axle     axle
Year     Motorbike         Car     Bus       Bus       Truck      Truck      Truck       Total

Can Tho – Ca Mau
2011          130            16         30        25         8          5          0.5     213
2015          342            50         80        76        24         16          1.8     589
2020          710           134        183       184        59         46          4.3   1,319
2025          899           188        230       234        81         64          5.7   1,702
2028        1,032           228        257       313        97         82          7.0   2,016

Ca Mau – Nam Can
2011         124             3.1       5.6       3.4        1.2        1.1         0.3     138
2015         219             5.9      10.8       7.2        2.1        2.1         0.8     248
2020         451            15.2      24.1      16.3        5.6        5.3         1.8     520
2025         823            38.7      44.7      32.4       11.1       11.3         3.3     964
2028       1,042            58.4      55.7      42.6       14.5       14.9         4.2   1,232

 Source: Team estimates.




VOC Savings

21.    Net savings in VOCs were estimated by applying the unit cost indicators
presented in Table A3.3 to the vehicle-kilometer volumes by vehicle type projected under
each scenario, and utilizing the relevant IRI rating for each segment pre- and post-project.
Estimated net VOC savings through 2028 are shown in Table A3.12.


Savings from Safety Improvements

22.     Vehicle-kilometer projections for each section under the two scenarios were also
utilized to estimate net savings derived from safer roads. This was done by applying the
with- and without-project accident incidence rates presented in Table A3.4 to the
projected transport tasks. Net savings projections through 2028 are presented in Table
A3.13.




                                               33
               Table A3.12. Projected Net Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
                               Billions of VND (2011 prices)

                                                                                  4 or more
                                  Small        Large        2-axle     3-axle     axle
Year    Motorbike         Car     Bus          Bus          Truck      Truck      Truck       Total

Can Tho – Ca Mau
2011         243            25         34           30           64         38           7      442
2015         340            42         49           48          102         70          13      664
2020         460            74         70           79          160        128          22      994
2025         593           107         90          119          231        203          33    1,377
2028         690           131        101          148          281        248          38    1,638

Ca Mau – Nam Can
2011         94              4             6            3         6          7           4     123
2015        131              5             9            6         9         10           6     175
2020        186             10            13            9        17         18          10     262
2025        243             19            18           13        24         28          13     359
2028        285             28            21           16        30         36          16     433

Source: Team estimates.


                      Table A3.13. Projected Net Road Safety Savings
                                Billions of VND (2011 prices)
                                                                                  4 or more
                                  Small        Large        2-axle     3-axle     axle
Year    Motorbike Car             Bus          Bus          Truck      Truck      Truck        Total

Can Tho – Ca Mau
2011         140             9             8            3         8          3          0.4     171
2015         207            15            12            5        14          6            1     261
2020         308            29            20           10        24         13            1     404
2025         439            47            28           16        39         22            2     593
2028         546            61            33           22        51         29            3     745

Ca Mau – Nam Can
2011         43             0.5       0.5          0.1           0.4        0.3         0.1      45
2015         63             0.8       0.8          0.2           0.6        0.4         0.2      66
2020         97             1.7       1.3          0.4           1.2        0.8         0.3     102
2025        138             3.5       2.0          0.7           1.9        1.4         0.4     148
2028        172             5.5       2.5          0.9           2.5        1.9         0.5     185

Source: Team estimates.

                                                 34
Net Resource Flows and Economic Viability Assessment

23.     Net resource flows for each section are presented in Tables A3.14 and A3.15. It is
estimated that both investments remain economically viable after taking into account
actual implementation costs, actual implementation schedules, historical travel demand
through 2010, and updated travel demand and modeling parameter forecasts through
2028.

24.      Specifically, it is estimated that project interventions in the Can Tho–Ca Mau
segment of NH1 yield a satisfactory EIRR of 16.8% and generate an ENPV of VND2.8
trillion at 2011 prices. Investments along the Ca Mau–Nam Can segment are estimated to
yield a healthy EIRR of 41.2% and generate an ENPV of VND2.2 trillion at 2011 prices.


Comparison of Results from PAD and ICR Economic Analyses

25.     Table A3.16 compares the EIRR estimates for investments in the target sections
obtained at appraisal—as shown in the PAD—with those obtained at completion. The
ICR-stage EIRR for the Can Tho–Ca Mau segment is roughly in line with that estimated
at appraisal. Such a result suggests that the negative effect on economic returns from
much higher implementation resource costs and a much longer implementation horizon
compared to what was originally estimated was offset by the positive effect of more
robust construction standards, faster-growing traffic, and larger absolute traffic volumes
than originally thought.

26.     The ICR-stage EIRR for the Ca Mau–Nam Can segment is significantly higher
than what was estimated at appraisal. The reasons for that are similar to those espoused
for Can Tho–Ca Mau: the negative impact on returns from higher implementation costs
and longer time horizons were, in the case of this section, more than offset by more
robust road design standards (which translated into better travel time and road safety
performance), faster historical and projected (for some of the out-years) traffic growth
rates, and larger absolute traffic volumes. Of the latter offsetting benefit streams, better
travel time performance was by far the key driver behind higher estimated returns at
completion relative to appraisal. Specifically, whereas it was estimated at appraisal that
buses would complete the 54-kilometer journey between Ca Mau and Nam Can in 120
minutes post-implementation, actual travel times in the first year of operations reached 67
minutes, or almost a full hour faster than originally assumed.

27.    Overall, it is concluded that the road and bridge upgrading investments carried out
under the project have thus far generated significant net economic benefits to road users
(and, by extension, local populations), and are projected to continue to do so, at attractive
economic rates of return, for at least the next 10-15 years.




                                             35
    Table A3.14. ICR-Stage Economic Appraisal of the Can Tho-Ca Mau MTFP Investents \1
                                Billions of VND (2011 prices)

                                 Net Economic Benefits and Costs                                   Net Resource
Year           Capital    Maintenance Travel Time                  VOCs            Safety                  Flow
2003              (1,063)         -            -                          -              -               (1,063)
2004                (758)         -            -                          -              -                 (758)
2005              (1,267)         -            -                          -              -               (1,267)
2006                (641)         -            -                          -              -                 (641)
2007                (683)           (1)         72                        296            122               (194)
2008                (631)           (1)         94                        333            134                (71)
2009                (550)           (1)        123                        369            145                 86
2010                (681)           (4)        164                        406            157                 42
2011                (377)           (5)        213                        442            171                445
2012                 -            (32)         274                        485            189                915
2013                 -            (11)         353                        536            209              1,087
2014                 -           (103)         453                        595            233              1,178
2015                 -            (11)         589                        664            261              1,503
2016                 -            (11)         721                        721            285              1,716
2017                 -            (11)         870                        783            312              1,955
2018                 -            (32)       1,047                        850            340              2,205
2019                 -           (103)       1,198                        919            371              2,384
2020                 -            (11)       1,319                        994            404              2,706
2021                 -            (11)       1,447                      1,066            437              2,940
2022                 -            (11)       1,533                      1,141            472              3,135
2023                 -            (11)       1,562                      1,216            510              3,277
2024                 -           (124)       1,595                      1,296            550              3,317
2025                 -            (11)       1,702                      1,377            593              3,662
2026                 -            (11)       1,809                      1,462            640              3,899
2027                 -            (11)       1,913                      1,548            690              4,141
2028               1,129          (11)       2,016                      1,638            745              5,517
                                                                                ENPV@12%                 2,836
                                                                                EIRR                     16.8%
Notes:
1\ Includes JBIC-financed bridge upgrading/replacement works along the full section, and the construction of three
distribution slabs in the Bac Lieu - Ca Mau segment.
Source: Team estimates.




                                                        36
   Table A3.15. ICR-Stage Economic Appraisal of the Ca Mau-Nam Can MTFP Investents \1
                               Billions of VND (2011 prices)

                                 Net Economic Benefits and Costs                                  Net Resource
Year           Capital        Maintenance Travel Time              VOCs           Safety                  Flow
2003                    (8)           -            -                     -              -                   (8)
2004                  (84)            -            -                     -              -                  (84)
2005                 (128)            -            -                     -              -                 (128)
2006                  (48)            -            -                     -              -                  (48)
2007                  (41)              (0)         74                    82             28                143
2008                  (64)              (0)         87                    93             32                147
2009                 (372)              (0)        100                   103             37               (133)
2010                 (126)              (2)        119                   113             41                146
2011                  (13)              (2)        138                   123             45                292
2012                  -                 (9)        160                   134             49                334
2013                  -                 (3)        184                   146             54                381
2014                  -               (25)         213                   160             59                407
2015                  -                 (3)        248                   175             66                487
2016                  -                 (3)        287                   190             72                546
2017                  -                 (3)        335                   207             79                618
2018                  -                 (9)        388                   224             86                690
2019                  -               (25)         449                   243             94                761
2020                  -                 (3)        520                   262            102                881
2021                  -                 (3)        592                   280            110                979
2022                  -                 (3)        671                   298            119              1,085
2023                  -                 (3)        761                   317            128              1,203
2024                  -               (31)         864                   338            137              1,308
2025                  -                 (3)        964                   359            148              1,468
2026                  -                 (3)      1,049                   382            159              1,587
2027                  -                 (3)      1,138                   406            172              1,713
2028                  223               (3)      1,232                   433            185              2,070
                                                                               ENPV@12%                 2,159
                                                                               EIRR                     41.2%
Notes:
1\ Includes construction of GH2 Bridge and upgrading of additional six bridges financed by IDA.
Source: Team estimates.




                                                       37
Table A3.16. Comparison of PAD- and ICR-Stage EIRR Estimations
                            In percent
                         PAD             ICR
Can Tho – Ca Mau         14.6            16.8

Ca Mau – Nam Can         21.0            41.2


Source: MTFP PAD, Team estimates.




                                    38
Annex 4. Resettlement Impacts


                                         MTFP: Actual Resettlement Impacts Relative to Plan

                                                                 Affected people              Total resettlement costs
                    Province                                     (no. of persons)                     (US$ mil)
                                                             Planned         Actual           Planned \1      Actual

                    Can Tho - Nam Can Section of NH1
                     Can Tho City                                   701              2,623             1.7               1.8
                     Hau Giang Province                          14,391             17,145             4.8               6.5
                     Soc Trang Province                          14,433             31,671             6.5           16.5
                     Bac Lieu Province                           10,326             28,926             2.5           13.9
                     Ca Mau Province                             10,470             15,241             5.6               7.8
                    Total                                       50,321              95,606           21.2           46.5


                    Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Section of NH1
                     Quang Tri Province                             176                 39             0.1               0.1
                     Thua Thien Hue Province                      3,306                453             0.4               0.5
                     Da Nang City                                   956                269             0.1               0.1
                     Quang Nam Province                           8,574              1,061             0.7               0.3
                     Quang Ngai Province                          1,715                532             0.2               0.5
                    Total                                       14,727               2,354             1.5               1.5

                    Grand Total                                 65,048              97,960           22.7           48.0


                     Source: MTFP PAD, PMU1, Provincial Resettlement Committee Authorities.
                     1\ Including contingencies.



                                                                   39
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                              Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                  Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
 Alain Labeau               Sr. Highway Engineer                   EASTR Task Team Leader (1)
 Dieter Havlicek            Transport Economist (Consultant)             Economics
 Thach Ngoc Pham            Operations Officer                     EACFV
 Pramod Agrawal             Social Specialist (Consultant)               Resettlement
 Pierre Arnoux              Social Specialist (Consultant)               Resettlement
 Manida Unkulvasapaul       Sr. Environmental Specialist           EACFT Environment
 Stein Lundebye             Sr. Highway Engineer                   SASIN Road safety
 Chander Ohri               Procurement Specialist (Consultant)    EAPCO Procurement
 Behdad Nowroozi            Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO Financial Mgmt
 Wijaya Wickrema            Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO Financial Mgmt
 Omowunmi Ladipo            Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LOAAS Financial Mgmt
 Hoi-Chan Nguyen            Sr. Counsel                            LEGEA Legal
 Nga Thi Quynh Dang         Team Assistant                         EACVF Administrative
 Boonsri P. Kim             Program Assistant                      EASTR Administrative
 Cuong Duc Dang             Economist                              EACVF Economics
 Cesar Queiroz              Principal Highway Engineer             ECSIN Peer Reviewer
 Jean-Charles Crochet       Sr. Transport Economist                ECSIN Peer Reviewer
 Hatim Hajj                 Principal Highway Engineer            EASTR Quality Control

Supervision/ICR
 Luis Blancas               Transport Specialist                  EASIN    Completion reporting
 Quang Ngoc Bui             Operations Officer                    EASVS    Environment
 Wenling Chen               Junior Professional Associate         AFTTR    Operations
  Christopher J. De Serio   Operations Analyst                    EASIN    Operations
 Vinh Quoc Duong            Consultant                            EASVS    Resettlement
 Quyen Do Duong             Finance Analyst                       CTRDM    Financial Mgmt
 Simon David Ellis          Sr. Transport Economist               SASDT    Transport
 Dung Anh Hoang             Sr. Transport Specialist              EASVS    Task Team Leader (3)
 James Orehmie Monday       Sr. Environmental Engr.               EASTS    Environment
 Thuy Bich Nguyen           Program Assistant                     EACVF    Administration
 Thang Chien Nguyen         Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR    Procurement
 Nga Thi Viet Nguyen        Consultant                            DECHD
 Hoang Xuan Nguyen          Procurement Analyst                   EAPPR    Procurement
 Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen    E T Consultant                        EASVS
 Maria Margarita Nunez      Sr. Highway Engineer                           Task Team Leader (2)
 William D.O. Paterson      Lead Highway Engineer                          Transport
 Cung Van Pham              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM    Financial Mgmt
  Hong Vu                   Sr. Operations Officer
  Chaohua Zhang             Sr. Social Sector Specialist          SASDS




                                             40
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                    USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                          No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
FY96                             N/A                        8.90
FY97                             N/A                        8.00
FY98                             N/A                       46.96
FY99                             N/A                       89.57
FY00                            36.29                     143.93
FY01                            30.32                      95.37
FY02                             0.10                       0.28
Total:                          66.71                     393.01

Supervision/ICR
FY00                             NA                         2.09
FY01                             NA                         3.91
FY02                            21.13                      61.55
FY03                            18.04                      60.25
FY04                            41.97                      84.66
FY05                            22.06                      94.84
FY06                            26.41                      66.84
FY07                            35.26                      91.98
FY08                            24.01                      59.75
FY09                            37.08                      98.46
FY10                            24.94                      52.35
FY11                            26.38                      58.17
Total:                         277.28                     728.85
           Grand Total:         343.99                  1,121.86

N/A = Not Available.




                              41
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                      42
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                     43
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Borrower’s Completion Report

Achievement of Objective and Outputs
The Project is considered satisfactory in achieving its overall development objectives.
Specifically:
i. The Project is to increase commercial use of an improved transportation network:
   (a) There is an increasing volume of goods transported from Ca Mau to Can Tho. In
       December 2005, the volume of freight to Can Tho and Ho Chi Minh is about
       7,267,680 tons, and increased to 7,703,740.8 tons in June 2006 (by 6% from year
       2005 to June 2006), and to 7,994,448 tons in Dec 2006 (10% annually from year
       2005);
   (b) Reduction in freight tariffs (rice, petroleum, and cement) in real terms between
       Can Tho and Ca Mau. In Dec 2005, the tariffs for Rice is 159,350 VND/Ton,
       Petroleum: 156,060 VND/Ton, Cement: 172,080 VND/Ton; in Dec 2007, Rice:
       180,540 VND/Ton, Petroleum: 172,980 VND/LTR Cement: 185,760 VND/Ton.
   (c) Reduction in travel time by bus between Can Tho and Ca Mau: In Dec 2005 4
       hours; in Jun 2006, 3h36' (by 10% from year 2005 to June 2006); and 3h30' in
       Dec 2006 (by 12% annually from year 2005); from 2010 to date: from 3h00 to
       3h30' on average.
   (d) Reduction in travel time by bus between Nam Can and Ca Mau: In Dec 2005, 3.5
       hours; in Jun 2006, 1h12' (by 66% from year 2005 to June 2006); and 1h05' in
       Dec 2006 1h5' (by 10% from June 2006 to December 2006);
   (e) Reduction in travel time by bus between Bac Lieu (Tac Van town) and Dan Cung
       [hours]: from 2007 to 2009: 2h00 to 2h30' on average; from 2010 to date: 1h15' to
       1h30'.
   (f) Number of accidents on GH2 Bridge: from 2007 to 2009: many accidents
       occurred due to narrow bridge; from 2010 to date: no accidents and no fatalities.
ii. Improve significantly access to rural areas:
       By completion of nine contracts under phase I of the original MDNI sub-
       component and handed over to road authorities, roads with IRI 8-10 are now
       better with IRI 4-5. As a result, the transportation from major city to such project
       areas is significantly improved.
iii. Ensure permanent access to regular flood-prone areas:
       Protection of central coastal area of NH1 from 1-3 year recurrence flood factor to
       10 year recurrence flood factor.
Overall, the project's development objectives were met. However, achievement of the
objectives is rated marginally satisfactory in terms of contract management. There were
many VOs in civil works contracts; the program of removal of blackspots was not carried

                                              44
out in full scale; axle load control program was not introduced: Traffic safety did not
improve, vehicle overloading was not reduced, and MoT‘s capacity to manage
maintenance activities and monitor environmental impact assessments was not enhanced.

Outputs by Component
Project Component 1 - US$76.21 million (base cost)
Upgrading of the Can Tho-Ca Mau section of NH1. Total cost: $90.395 million,
including resettlement, construction supervision, and contingencies.
These works are the southwest continuation of the Ho Chi Minh City-Can Tho section of
NH1 upgraded under the World Bank-financed Highway Rehabilitation Project 1 (HRP1)
and completed in February 1999.
1. Civil works

This section is divided into two contract packages, MD1 and MD2
a. Contract MD1: Can Tho to the Soc Trang / Bac Lieu border
        KM. 2068 + 500 - KM. 2169 + 041 (100.54km) approx. 94.85km of Works
        Contract Price: 385,799,764,493 VND
b. Contract MD2: Soc Trang / Bac Lieu border to Ca Mau
         KM. 2169 + 041 - KM. 2248 + 000 (76.82km) approx. 69.06km of Works
         Contract Price: 345,170,977,667 VND

Under these two contracts, the road was upgraded from an existing asphalt surfaced
carriageway varying in width from 7.0 to 7.5 meters, with negligible shoulder formations,
to a carriageway of the following specifications:

                                                  Can Tho – Ca Mau
                                   Major Urban Areas Minor Urban           Rural Areas
                                                          Areas
 Carriageway                           2 x 3.75         2 x 3.75             2 x 3.5
 Paved shoulder                        2 x 3.75          2 x 2.5             2 x 2.0
 Verge                                     -                -                2 x 0.5
 Min. width of formation                 15.00            12.50               12.00
Due to the delayed implementation of MTFP, at the time of the Bid, the Original Design
(dated November 2000 based upon 1998/1999 data) was already outdated, with respect to
changes in the Vietnam Design Standards and the actual condition of the existing roads
within the project areas.
During the implementation of the Civil Works Contracts the overall design of Contract
Packages MD1 and MD2 has been amended and improved to suit the actual conditions
found at the time of implementation, including very soft ground conditions under the new
shoulder, widening portion and realignment sections exhibit soft soils at many locations
with a high water table. No ground improvement was recommended in the original design,

                                          45
increasing volume of traffic, and final road profile level having at least 50 cm above the
design high water level with a 2% flood frequency (H2%).
For the detailed review of the pavement design, American Association of State Highway
and Transportation Officials Guidelines for Design of Pavement Structures as adapted in
the Vietnamese Standard 22 TCN-274-01 were followed.

Design features comprised of the following:
     i. New pavement for realignment portions, reconstruction and widening
           portions;
     ii. Overlays for the existing pavement;
     iii. Shoulders; and
     iv. Repairs required to the existing pavement prior to overlay.

After due consideration, the final design was adopted by MoT Decision 1188/QD-
BGTVT dated 27 April 2004 with a combination of the two following Options to suit
specific sections of the existing pavement: Option I comprised of exclusive bituminous
layers with 50mm Asphalt Concrete (AC) over designed thickness of Asphalt Treated
Base (ATB). Option II provided for composite layers using 50mm AC and 70mm ATB
underlain with 150mm Crushed Aggregate Base (CAB) or more, as per the design.
Option II (Composite Overlay) for all realignment sections, corrugation/washboarding
sections and heavy repair sections; and Final Road Profile level have to be at least 50cm
above the design high water level with a 2% flood frequency (H2%), hereafter referred to
as the red line level, which fully incorporated the Recommendation 1 Option.
As a result, the revised designed pavement is better, stronger and more reliable. However,
the project was not completed as per the original contract schedule date, i.e. 25 March
2006, because of the design changes related to soft soil conditions, increased quantities
(pavement design), bridge rehabilitation changed to bridge replacement, design
amendments as required by the Provincial Authorities and delayed resettlement. Also, the
sub-contractor had financial problems which affected the progress. An extension of time
was granted many times.
Finally, up to more than 3 years in comparison with the initial, two contracts were
completed in 2008. On the one hand, the component is successful in technical view. In
two contracts, there appears a significantly good condition of the newly constructed
pavement during three years after completion. On the other hand, the process of
implementation was poor, design standards were modified, quantities varied,
environmental performance was poor, land acquisition was delayed, construction
schedules were not met, all of which caused significant delays.
2. Compliance with resettlement planning and implementation
This involved resettlement and rehabilitation of PAPs and those already affected,
including construction of resettlement facilities and provision of building materials. The
RAP was consistent with Government laws and guidelines and the World Bank
Operational Directive 4.30 on involuntary resettlement.
After approximately one year into the overall project time period (April 2004) the
Resettlement Status was as follows:

                                           46
   -   Contract Package MD1: 63.7%
   -   Contract Package MD2: 71.8%

However, by December 2004 and January 2005 all the major resettlement issues had been
resolved and substantially completed on Contract Packages MD1 and MD2.
Overall, the project complied with resettlement procedures and the compensation
program for affected households. Also, it performed satisfactorily with respect to RAP
expected outputs, due to close collaboration among PMU1 authorities and Peoples‘
Committees at the provincial, district, and commune levels.
3. Environmental Issues
This project received special attention from the World Bank, PMU1, and the supervision
consultant.
The Foreign Environmental Advisor completed the basic introductory environmental
awareness training commenced during the first mobilization for MD1-2 staff, which was
presented in September 2003. Some 25 staff attended, including representatives from
each of the Contractors‘ construction teams. The seminars were divided into 2 parts, the
first addressing environmental issues associated with road and bridge construction and
the second addressing the implementation of environmental reporting procedures for the
MTFP Project. Each person attending was given a set of guidance notes for future
reference and copies of completed examples of monthly environmental reporting forms.
In addition to the above training, the Foreign and Local Environmental Advisor
participated in the World Bank training sessions organized during the Bank‘s Mid-Term
Review Mission from July 12 to 27, 2004. Training sessions were held at MD2 office on
July 16, 2004, and at FL2 office (Da Nang) on July 19, 2004. A total of 50 staff from
PMU1, Contractors, and Supervision Consultant attended the training. Staff from the
World Bank, the Independent Environmental Monitoring Consultant and the Supervision
Consultant made presentations. The Foreign Environmental Advisor prepared notes in
English and Vietnamese which were given to participants at the two training sessions.
The Foreign Environmental Advisor and Bank environmental staff made it clear to
Contractors at the training sessions that their implementation of the requirements of the
Project‘s EMP were very poor to date and not acceptable. The Foreign Environmental
Advisor‘s presentation focused on seven key areas where Contractors needed to improve
their environmental management practices, namely: worker camps, asphalt mixing plants,
material stockpiles, along road alignment (especially traffic safety and management),
transport of materials, bridge works and culturally sensitive sites. For each area, the main
environmental impact/issue was identified and the corresponding mitigation measure
stated.
It appeared that not all environmental mitigation measures as outlined in the Project EMP
or in the individual EMPs submitted by each Contractor were fulfilled well. In particular,
traffic safety and management, worker health and safety, and air and water pollution at
work sites and worker camps were problem areas that urgently needed to be addressed.
However, the implementation of environmental requirements by the Contractors were
considered to be acceptable.

                                            47
Project Component 2 - US$18.08 million (base cost)

Improvement of the regional transport network of the Mekong Delta. Total cost:
$21.644 million, including resettlement construction supervision and contingencies
This component includes the improvement of 12 road segments in 18 provinces of the
extended Mekong Delta area and upgrading of the Ca Mau-Nam Can section of NH1.
(a) Sub-component: Upgrading of Ca Mau-Nam Can section of NH1. Total cost:
$11.272 million, including resettlement, construction supervision, and contingencies.
This 54 kilometer section has two segments. The first, the 41-kilometer Ca Mau-Dam
Cung segment, contains two sub-segments. At appraisal, Ca Mau-Cai Ran Bridge (15
kilometers) was finished to an earth surface, and the Cai Ran-Dam Cung Ferry (26
kilometers) had recently been completed to a sand road base and temporary steel truss
bridges had been built.
1. Civil Works
This section was carried out in one Contract Package
Contract MD3: Ca Mau to Nam Can
              KM. 2248 + 000 - KM. 2301 + 682 (53km) approx. 49.91km of works
              Contract Price: 160,107,990,887 VND
The initial 6km of this section was paved and the remaining length was an earthen road.
The specified road width was as follows:

              Carriageway                                          2 x 3.5m
              Paved shoulder                                       2 x 0.5m
              Verge                                                2 x 0.5m
              Minimum width of formation                            9.00m

The Ministry of Transport had constructed an embankment from the existing ground level
to the underside of the road‘s sub-grade level. The works undertaken under this contract
were meant to be between sub-grade level of the completed embankment and finished
road level. However, the completed embankment had to be raised further.

Mobilization started on November 11, 2003 but actual physical works (clearing and
grubbing) started in March 2004. The embankment works (common fill) started in July
2004 at KM. 2259+000 and simultaneously progressed throughout the entire project site
which was divided into five sections and assigned to five Construction Teams. However,
the project was not completed as per original contract time (November 10, 2005), due to
the following reasons, such as revisions of pavement design with respect to additional
settlement compensation layer (17 – 19 cm), increase in sub-base thickness (additional
12cm), change from AC to double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) at KM.
2254+400 – KM. 2289+100 and Km. 2289+940 – KM. 2301+340, widening of
carriageway width from 16m to 24m at KM. 2248+400 – KM. 2249+656, re-profiling of
base course layer to maintain smoothness of carriageway and unfavorable weather
conditions for DBST works. Hence, the Contractor requested a time extension up to

                                           48
March 31, 2007 (additional 16 Months, 20 Days) and this was approved by MoT and the
World Bank. The project was substantially complete (99.1% progress) as of March 31,
2007.

2. Resettlement and Environmental Issues
Similar to the MD1 and MD2 Contracts, the MD3 Contract was located in the Mekong
Delta Region. Overall, the project complied with resettlement procedures and the
compensation program for affected households. Also, it performed satisfactorily with
respect to RAP expected outputs, due to close collaboration among PMU1 authorities and
Peoples‘ Committees at the provincial, district, and commune levels.
On environmental issues, although received special attention from PMU1, Consultant,
and World Bank, all the environmental requirements were still not fulfilled well during
part of the construction period.
However, the implementation of environmental requirements by the contractor were
considered to be acceptable.
(b) Sub-component: Other improvements to the transport network in the extended
Mekong Delta area. Total cost: $10.372 million, including construction supervision and
contingencies.
In the 18-province project area, 23 road segments were identified and ranked through a
comprehensive multi-criteria analysis to assess their contribution to the efficiency of the
regional transportation network. The 12 road segments recommended for the proposed
project rank first among the 23 identified. No resettlement was anticipated.
Summary of nine Contracts are below:
                                                     Contract Amount
 No       Contract              Chainage                  (VND)
  1    ST3 - TL6        Km6+945 - Km16+603                19,867,989,306


  2    TG5 - TL870      Km0+00 - Km5+715                  11,492,913,517

  3    LA4 - TL826      Km2+338 - Km5+409                  8,990,670,482

  4    TN2 - TL795      Km0+00 - Km9+800                  15,688,289,721
  5    DN1.1- TL769     Km0+00 - Km8+00                   17,256,726,000

  6    DN1.2- TL769     Km8+00 - Km15+660                 15,624,594,000

  7    ST3 - TL848      Km21+487 - Km30+00                12,650,949,329

  8    DN2.1- TL765     Km10+00 - Km18+00                 17,388,697,568

  9    DN2.2- TL765     Km18+00 - Km28+297                21,266,329,712


                                            49
All nine civil Contracts were completed in 2007 and handed over to local authorities.
Continuation of the improvement to the transport network (Phase I), the Additional
Mekong Transport Networks (58 km) was then going to be implemented.
This sub component comprised construction of 5 Contracts. They are summarized as
follows:
+ Contract HG1:
        -   Contract Amount: 37,099,636,445 VND
        -   Contract Duration: 18 Months
        -   Commenced Date: 24/7/2010
+ Contract HG2:
        -   Contract Amount: 78,893,434,163 VND
        -   Contract Duration: 20 Months
        -   Commenced Date: 24/7/2010
+ Contract TV1:
        -   Contract Amount: 17,945,343,585 VND
        -   Contract Duration: 15 Months
        -   Commenced Date: 17/7/2010
+ Contract TV2:
        -    Contract Amount: 46,592,609,000 VND;
        -    Contract Duration: 15 Months
        -    Commenced Date: 24/7/2010
+ Contract BD1:
        -    Contract Amount: 51,174,082,796 VND;
        -    Contract Duration: 18 Months
        -    Commenced Date: 28/11/2009.
Among 5 contracts, Contract TV1 and BD1 have been completed, the others are expected
to complete in June 2011.


Project Component 3 - US$ 20.24 million (base cost)
Protection of 38.8 kilometers of severely flood-prone sections of NH1 between Dong
Ha and Quang Ngai. Total cost: $24.024 million, including resettlement construction
supervision and contingencies. Seventeen severely affected sections totaling 38.8
kilometers have been identified for the project.
The proposed pavement is a 50-millimeter asphalt wearing course over a minimum of a
70-millimeter asphalt-treated base, supported by either a crushed rock base or the existing
pavement if the road is not to be raised more than 220 millimeters.

Contract FL1. Mobilization started on March 26, 2003 but actual physical works
(clearing and grubbing) started in June 2003.



                                            50
From June to August 2003, confirmation surveys were carried out to verify the original
design data for acceptance of the original design. From the confirmation surveys it was
found that the road pavement (Tu Ha Town) and the existing structures had deteriorated
to a condition that needed an updated revised design, i.e., the Hai Bridge, originally
scheduled for rehabilitation only, needed to be replaced completely and likewise, the
pavement structure in Tu Ha Town had to be re-evaluated for additional repair and
strengthening accordingly.

In October 2003 the project site between KM.805+000-KM.806+000 and KM.813+000-
KM.816+000 was totally disrupted by a typhoon with massive flooding at the above
stated areas. In May 2004 the major structure works started after completion of the
cofferdam construction at Van Xa and Chi Thanh Box Culverts.

However, once again the overall site progress was disrupted by another typhoon between
November 22-28, 2004, creating massive flooding along the sections KM.805+000-
KM.806+000, KM.811+000-KM.817+000 and KM.865+800-KM.867+172. Except for
the section KM.811+000-KM817+000, flood water flowed over the other two sections,
causing extension damage to the completed slope protection works and partially washed
out the sub-base and base courses under the completed ATB. All of the flood damage was
rectified and completed in January 2005.

Subsequently, the project was not completed as per the original schedule date,
(November 25, 2004) due to the two typhoon-related damages and a three-month
extension of time for completion was granted. As of February 28, 2005 the project
progress was 98%, or substantially complete.

Contract FL2. Mobilization started on November 11, 2003 but actual physical works
(clearing and grubbing) started in March 2004 at KM.954+000-KM.955+000.

From February to May 2004 confirmation surveys were carried out to verify the original
design data for acceptance of the original design. From the confirmation surveys it was
found that the road pavement and the existing structures had deteriorated to a condition
that needed an updated revised design, i.e. the bridges scheduled for rehabilitation only
needed to be replaced completely and, similarly, the pavement structure had to be re-
evaluated for additional repair and strengthening accordingly.

The overall site progress was disrupted by the November 2004 typhoon, causing massive
flooding along the sections KM.936+650-KM.940+650, KM.945+049-KM.948+370,
KM.948+526-KM.952+717, KM.954+098-KM.957+000, Bau Van Bridge KM.955+246
and Tri Yen Bridge KM.956+1084, with the section KM.954+098-KM.957+000 being
the worst affected, earthworks and pavement structure washed out completely.

By February 2005 the majority of the flood damage repairs had been completed and the
bored piling works and beam casting at Tri Yen Bridge started. Subsequent to the
flooding, two additional culverts were instructed by MoT.



                                           51
Subsequently, the project was not completed as per the original schedule date (July 10,
2005) due to the typhoon-related damages and the Chau O Town widening additional
works, and an extension of time for completion was granted up to October 31, 2005. As
of that date the project progress was 98%, or substantially complete.

Project Component 4. Three Distribution slabs in Bac Lieu Province:
This component comprised the construction of 3 Distribution Slabs in NH1 section from
Bac Lieu to Ca Mau. They are as follows:

                                            Contract Amount
 N     Contract            Chainage
                                                (VND)
 o
 1 SGT 01            Km 2197+500               12,406,846,665
 2 SGT 02            Km 2199+976               17,300,449,800
 3 SGT 03            Km 2220+241               19,591,859,044

All three Contracts now are completed. They will be handed over to RRMU VII.


Project Component 5 - US$7.01 million (base cost)
Institutional Strengthening. Total Cost: $7.832million, including TA, construction
supervision, civil works, equipment, and contingencies
a) Strengthening of MoT management. Total cost: $1.234 million, including
contingencies. Technical assistance to strengthen the long-term strategy, planning, and
monitoring function, develop a transport database connected to the various modal
agencies, and improve the organizational and human resources policies ($1,123,000); and
supply of information technology equipment to support the technical assistance
($111,000). The World Bank agreed to cancel the technical assistance on Institutional
Strengthening of MoT Capacity (Part B.1 of Schedule 2 in the DCA) and conduct the
proposed consulting services for Feasibility Study and Preliminary Designs (of road
improvements (Part B.5 of Schedule 2 in the DCA).
b) Implementation of new road and bridge standards. Total cost: $1.176 million,
including contingencies. Second phase of technical assistance to formulate and setup a
long-term training program to ensure the nationwide dissemination, implementation, and
regular updating of the new design developed under phase 1 of HRP 1. Works were
completed in 2007.
c) Improvement of road safety. Total cost 1.238 million, including contingencies. Third
phase of technical assistance for updating and finalizing the road safety audit and
blackspot removal manuals whose first and second phase were initiated under HRP1 and
2, and second training stage of VRA staff in traffic safety audit and remedial measures
($589,000); upgrading of about 12 hazardous road locations to support this technical
assistance ($648,000); and supervision of upgrading by concerned RRMUs (regular VRA
budget).

                                          52
Vietnam Road Safety Improvement-Phase 2 and Heavy Traffic Management Study has
been completed as of March 2007.
Two blackspot removal contracts were carried out, one in Hung Yen that is expected to
complete in June 2011.
d) Enforcement of axle load regulations. Total cost: $1.136 million, including
contingencies. Second phase of assistance to VRA following the first phase under HRP2
to review the need to strengthen the existing axle load legislation and the effectiveness of
the institutional setup, explore more effective enforcement of the standards, and train
VRA staff to use mobile scales to control weigh-in-motion and operate permanent
weighbridges ($223,000); supply of 10 mobile scales ($217,000) and three permanent
weighbridges ($357,000) to support this technical assistance; construction of three sites
for permanent weigh stations along NH1 to support the technical assistance ($879,000);
detailed design engineering, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision of
construction of the three weigh station sites ($60,000).
This is to support the Technical Assistance on Road Safety and Heavy Traffic
Management which was completed. A Weigh Station located on project road NH1 in Soc
Trang province was identified for construction. However, while PMU1 was preparing
detailed design and bidding documents for this package, the Bank was informed by
PMU1 that the Government decided to postpone the construction of weigh stations in the
whole country until a better master plan on heavy weight control system was done. MoT
then sent a letter to the Bank requesting cancellation of the proposed weigh station in Soc
Trang. In the Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission (July 26 - 27, 2010) the Bank would
send its response shortly but no later than August 31, 2010. However, this was not
officially decided to be cancelled by the Bank.
e) Undertaking feasibility studies, preliminary design, and detailed design for future
road maintenance and improvement projects.
At the request of the Borrower, the World Bank agreed to cancel the technical assistance
on Institutional Strengthening of MoT Capacity (Part B.1 of Schedule 2 in the DCA) and
conduct the Feasibility Study of Ca Mau bypass and widening of NH1 from Can Tho to
Phung Hiep. This work is expected to complete in June 2011.
f) Support to PMUI. Total cost: $828,000, including contingencies, fully financed by
government counterpart funds. Support to implement the project, including
environmental monitoring, monitoring of RAP implementation, and training to improve
financial management, annual project auditing and project evaluation. The following
services were completed: environmental monitoring, monitoring of RAP implementation,
annual project auditing, and services for improvement of PMU1 financial management.


Project Component 6 - Construction of 6 bridges of Dam Cung-Nam Can Section
This component included the construction of 6 bridges in the NH1 section from Dam
Cung to Nam Can (Ca Mau province). They are as follows:




                                            53
                                                            Final Contract Amount
    No             Contract                Chainage                 (VND)
    1      KN1 (Kênh Năm Bridge)       KM.2291+805.33           30,432,747,193
    2      CG2 (Cưạ Gà Bridge)         KM.2293+438              29,896,949,434
    3      ÔU3 (Ông U Bridge)          KM.2294+082.87           29,063,168,201
                                                                29,589,114,670
    4      LT4 (Lòng Tong Bridge)      KM.2295+199.5
    5                                  KM.2296+463.59           46,305,858,695
           ÔT5 (Ông Tình Bridge)
    6                                  KM.2301+531.03           45,511,225,743
           KX6 (Kênh Xáng Bridge)

All six bridges have been completed and handed over to RRMU VII since May 2010.

Project Component 7 - Construction of GH2 Bridge
   - Contract Amount: 195.862.444.465 VND;
   - Contract Duration: 20 months;
   - Commenced: 12/3/2009; Completed: 12/11/2010.
The Contract has been completed and handed over to RRMU VII since 16/10/2010.

Lessons Learned
       With respect to the Bid and Contract Documents, these must be fully reviewed prior
        to Bid Invitation to eliminate contractual issues and additional project costs. However,
        if for any reason the proposed contract is delayed for more than one year then the
        design must be reviewed and the original design data updated, especially for a road
        rehabilitation projects were the existing road or structures will deteriorate during the
        period of delay.
       With respect to the Design Issues encountered, in order to reduce VOs during
        construction, the fund for the detailed designs of IDA-funded projects should be more
        for collecting sufficient design data.
       With respect to rehabilitation works, allowances must be made for the worst-case
        scenario, so additional quantities/contingencies must be included within the Contract
        Bill of Quantities.
       With respect to the Contractual Issues, most of these problems were generated by the
        two main Contractors on Contract Packages MD1 and MD2, wherein they completely
        sub-contracted all the works to sub-contractors and then tried to hide their misdoing
        with excuses for slow mobilization and poor management/control of the Advance
        Payment monies given. It is the Engineer‘s Opinion that whatever the Contractors
        propose within their Bid must be followed, otherwise so much time and energy will
        and was wasted by all contractual parties trying to make compromises and requesting
        special waivers etc., which is not contractually correct.
       On SOE issues, in order to avoid consuming time in procurement, the World Bank
        should have clear instructions on SOE participation in IDA-funded projects.

                                                54
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
No comments were received.




                                      55
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank, Mekong Delta Transport Infrastructure Development Project:
   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 39432-VN, April 23, 2007.

2. The World Bank, Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project: Aide-Memoires,
   Management Letters, and Implementation Status and Results Reports, 2001-2011.

3. The World Bank, Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project: Project Appraisal
   Document, Report No. 21405-VN, November 20, 2000.

4. The World Bank, Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project: Project Paper on
   Additional Financing, Report No. 39851-VN, May 24, 2007.

5. Vietnam, Project Management Unit 1, Borrower‘s Implementation Completion
   Report, Draft received September 16, 2011.




                                         56
PROJECT MAP




    57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 38917
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
        102°             To Kunming 104°                                                   To Guangnan                       108°                            110°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tan                                   PR 795 (TN 2)                      Loc Ninh
                                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bien
                                          Kunming
                                                                                                                                CHINA                                                                                                                                VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BINH
                                                                           Hà Giang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHUOC

                                                                                         `
                                                                                   Cao Bang
                                                                                                                                                                                       MEKONG TRANSPORT AND FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Buon Ma
                                Lào Cai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Thuot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ho
                                           Ho
                                                                                                                    To Nanning                                                                                             SUPPLEMENTED MDNI CONTRACTS                                                                                                                                                                                               TAY                     Dau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pieng
                Lai Châu                        ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NINH
22°                                                   (R                       Tuyên                                                                                22°
                                                        ed                     Quang                                                                                                                                                       0              10                20              30               40         50
                                                                )
                         Diên                                                               Thai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tay Ninh
                         Biên                    Yên Bái                                   Nguyen        Lang                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS
                         Phu                                                                              Son
                                           Da
                                                (Bl                             Viêt Trì
                                                                                                  Bac Giang                    Mong Cai                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CAMBODIA
                                                     ac
                                Na San                     k)
                                                                            HANOI                      Bai                                                                This map was produced by the
                  To                                                                                  Chay
               Sopxang                                                   Hà Dông                                                                                          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                    Hòa Bình                           Hong Gai
                                                                                       Haí       Haiphong                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                      Dúóng
                                                                                                    Halong                                                                and any other information shown on this                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BINH
      LAO PEOPLE'S                     To                             M
                                                                       a
                                                                                Nam Dinh    Thái Bình Bay                                                                 map do not imply, on the part of The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DUONG
                                     Luang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DONG
                                                                                                                                                                          World Bank Group, any judgment on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR 742 (BD 1)
20°    DEMOCRATIC                   Prabang                                                   Ninh Bình                                                         20°       the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NAI

         REPUBLIC                                                                          Thanh Hóa
                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such
                            To                                                                                                                                            boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PR 765 (DN 2.1 & DN 2.2)
                          Luang                  Ca                                                             Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Thi Dau Mot
                         Prabang
                                                                                                                                                       Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                        (China)
                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bien Hoa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Don
                                                                                     Cua Lo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             g
                                                                                      Vinh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Don
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DONG                                                                                                                     HO CHI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ien                                       LONG AN                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                ˜                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Can

                                                                    To
                                                                                            Hà Tinh
                                                                                                                Tonkin                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nguy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       en V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           an THAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tiep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  al                                                                            MINH                                                         Phan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thiet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AN                                                 Cao Lanh       Cana                                                                                                                                        Ho Chi Minh PR 769 (DN 1.1 & DN 1.2)
18°                                                             Khammouan                                                                                       18°                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                           Me




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kien
                                                       ng                                                                                                                                                 Luong                                                                              GIANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City
                                              k   o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ch
                SELECTED PROJECT ROADS
                                                                                                      Dông Hói                                                                                                                                                                                                    Long Xuyen




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Guioc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ek
                PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cai San        Lap Vo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tie
                                                                                     To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tan An




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PR 826 (LA 4)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n
                   HRP1                                                         Ban Nagnom                                                                                                                                     Hon Dat




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIEN GIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   na
                                                                                                                Dông Hà                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sa Dec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                   HRP2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KIEN                                    l
                                                                                    To                                                                                                                                                                                                                    na                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BA    RIA
                                                                                                                            ,                                                                                                                                                                           Ca
                PREVIOUS ADB PROJECTS                                           Savannakhet                              Huê                                                                                                                                                                      g                                                                                                                                                               a         o                                                                  VUNG        TA U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                PR 848 (DT 3)                                                                My Tho R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      My Tho ho G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GIANG                      Gi                                                                       My Thuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       au                                                                                                                                                                   C                         Thanh Vinh Dong
                PROPOSED ADB PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -H          Tan                                                                                            Vinh
                                                                            MTFP Protection of Selected                                      ~                                                                                                                                   Soi             Hiep                                                                                                                                                             Cho
16°                                                                                                                                    Dà Nang                  16°                                                                            Rach Gia                   ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Long                   Cho Lach     PR 870 (TG 5)                 Gao
                SELECTED CITIES                                            Flood-Prone Sections between                                 Hoi An                                                                                                                         Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bypass Canal
                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                           Dông Hà and Quàng Ngai,                                                                            Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                VINH                                                             Ben Tre




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R.
                                                                                   39 km. total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LONG                      it                                                                                                                                      Vung Tau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAN                                                               Th
                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     g                                                                 Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                    THO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Can Tho                       Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i R
                OTHER ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tam Binh         Thit                                                    BEN TRE                     .
                                                                                                                                      Quàng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               g
                                                                                                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         an
                RIVERS                                                                                                                Ngai˜                                 Thailand                                                                                                                                                                                                M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ha
                                                                                                           Attapu                                                                                                                                                                                                              nal                                            Tra On




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ch
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Xa                                                                        PR 911 (TV 1&TV 2)                                        Lu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ilo
                                                                                                                                Kon Tum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ien
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vi Thanh
                                                                                                                     Plei Ku                                                                                                                                                                            Hoa
                                                                                                                                                                14°                                                                                                                                     Luu
14°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bas
                                                                                                                                                       Qui Nhon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tra
                                                                                                      To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vinh
                                                                                                  Stung Treng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PR 927 (HG 1 & HG 2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                           MD1                                                                       TRA VINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                                                                                                                         Tuy Hòa                                                                                                Ca                                                                          Can Tho-SocTrang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                      Buôn Ma                                                                                                                             De
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nh
                                                 C A M B O D I A                                                       Thuôt                                                                                                                  m -Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Thuan                                                                                SOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tre                                                                                                                           Sóc Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Thoi Binh                                                                                                                TRANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PR 6 (ST 3)
                                                                                                                                                        Nha Trang                                                                                                                                 MD2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Trem
                                                                                       To                                                                                                                                                                                                   SocTrang-Bac Lieu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BAC
12°                                                                                                                                 Dà Lat     Ba               12°
                                                                                   Phnom Penh                                                 Nogi      Cam Ranh                                                                                                                                 LIEU
                                                                          Me                   Tây
                                                                                                                                                     Phan Rang-                                                            Ca Mau                                                                                                    Bac Lieu
      Gulf                                                                                     Ninh
                                                                            ko




                                                                                                                                                     Tháp Chàm
                                                                              ng




                                                                                                       Thí Dâu Môt
                                                                To Phnom Penh
       of                              To
                                                                                                           Biên Hòa
                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                      Phan Thiêt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cai Ran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CA MAU
                                   Kompong Som
 Thailand                                                                              Tan An
                                                                                        ˜
                                                                               Sa Déc My Tho
                                                                                                          Ho Chi Minh City                                                                                                  MD 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca Mau - Nam Can
                                                            Long Xuyên                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT ROADS:                                                              ONGOING INLAND WATERWAYS                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                         Duong Dong                                                           ˜     ,      Vung Tàu
                                                                                                            ˜                                                                                           Quan Long
                                                                                             Vinh Bên Tre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL HIGHWAY 1                                                        AND PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT:
10°                                                                              Cân         Long                                                               10°                                   Dam Cung                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                           Phu Quoc                    Rach Giá                                        MEKONG DELTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCIAL NETWORK                                                         PROJECT WATERWAYS TO BE DREDGED
                                                                                 Tho'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
                                                                                                  Trá Vinh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT WATERWAYS, NO DREDGING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS:                                                      PROJECT BRIDGES                                                                           NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                              Sóc Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HRP1                                                                       NAVIGATION LOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nam Can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HRP2                                                                       LANDING STAGE
                                                                            Cà Mau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEAPORT
                                                                                                                         0                         150 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OTHER IMPORTANT WATERWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PREVIOUS ADB PROJECTS                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                          Nam Can                         Con Dau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                               ht                                                       100 Miles
                                                                                   il at rig
                                                                    See deta
       102°                              104°                                              106°                                 108°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOVEMBER 2011
