Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2282 BUR
(Public Works and Employment Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 5, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2282 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1991, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract with other donors in order to obtain 
loans or grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to seven million eight hundred 
thousand dollars ($7,800,000) to assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later 
than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution and initial operation of 
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to 
be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means the public agency or municipality for whose benefit a 
sub-project is to be executed;
(b)
"CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Convention" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Executing Agency pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the Procedures Manual 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, and all annexes, schedules 
and other attachments to the Convention;
(d)
"Executing Agency" means Agence Faso Baara, an entity established under 
the laws of Burkina Faso;
(e)
"implementing enterprise" means an entity to which a contract has been 
awarded for the execution of a sub-project;
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance (No. 
P-654-BUR) granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a first exchange of 
letters, dated November
6 and November 28, 1990, as supplemented by a further exchange of letters, dated April 
30 and May 31, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"sub-project" means any of the activities described as such in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement; and
(i)
"sub-project agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Executing Agency and an implementing enterprise for the execution of a sub-project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies
equivalent of fifteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain, 
or cause the Executing Agency to open and maintain, in CFA Francs a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15,
commencing November 15, 2001 and ending May 15, 2031. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on May 15, 2011, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
Page  4
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, and without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, shall:
(i)
cause the Executing Agency to execute the Project, in accordance 
with the 
provisions of the Convention;
 
(ii)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
the Executing Agency to perform its 
obligations under the Project; and
(iii)
refrain from taking or permitting to be taken any action which 
would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
 
(b)
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall enter 
into a Convention with the Executing Agency  on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association which shall include, inter alia:
(i)
provisions for the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a 
non-reimbursable basis: (A) for purposes of financing 
expenditures incurred by 
implementing enterprises in the carrying out 
of sub-projects; and (B) for 
operating costs and equipment of 
the Executing Agency, including the 
obligation of the 
Executing Agency to return all of its equipment to the 
Borrower upon completion of the Project or the day before its dissolution in 
accordance with the statutes of the Executing Agency, whichever happens first;
(ii)
the obligation of the Executing Agency to take all measures 
necessary to 
ensure that the Project is carried out with due 
diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial 
practices;
 
(iii)
the Procedures Manual specifying the obligations of the Executing 
Agency 
relating to the execution of the Project, selection 
of sub-projects, 
procurement and preparation of evidence 
required for withdrawal requests and 
replenishment of the Special 
Account;
(iv)
the obligation of the Executing Agency to keep the positions of 
Director 
General, Technical Director and Financial Director 
filled, at all times, by 
persons having experience and qualifications 
Page  5
acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Association;
 
(v)
the obligation of the Executing Agency to promptly inform the 
Borrower and the 
Association of any condition which interferes, or 
threatens to interfere, with 
the progress of the Project and 
sub-projects, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by the Executing Agency of its 
obligations under the Convention, or the performance of the Executing Agency 
and implementing enterprises under the sub-project agreements;
(vi)
the obligation of the Executing Agency to provide, by the 
fifteenth day of 
every other month, reports of such scope and 
in such detail as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably 
request;
(vii)
a sample sub-project agreement;
 
(viii) a sample of the agreement to be entered into between the Executing 
Agency and 
a Beneficiary with a view to the execution of a sub-project; 
and
(ix)
the obligation of the Executing Agency to submit to the 
Association for its 
approval, not later than September 15, 1992, 
and again not later than 
September 15, 1993, a program of 
proposed sub-projects representing an 
aggregate estimated cost 
of $4,780,000 each.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement the Borrower shall:
(i)
cause the Executing Agency to execute, not later than December 31, 
1994, a 
program of new sub-projects representing an aggregate 
cost of $2,200,000 
equivalent, out of which: (A) sub-projects 
representing an aggregate cost of 
at least $730,000 equivalent 
shall be completed not later than December 31, 
1992; and (B) 
additional sub-projects representing an aggregate cost of at 
least another $730,000 equivalent shall be completed not later than December 
31, 1993; and
(ii)
make available to the Executing Agency out of its own resources 
all the 
necessary funds needed for the execution of the 
sub-projects referred to in 
sub-paragraph (i) of this Section.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than 
September 15, 1992, and every six months thereafter, undertake a joint review of the 
Project or, in the case of the
review to be undertaken not later than September 15, 1993, a mid-term review, during 
which they shall exchange views on matters relating to the progress of the Project and 
sub-projects, the management of the operations of the Executing Agency, the 
performance by the Executing Agency of its obligations under the Convention (including 
procurement procedures), the performance by the
Executing Agency and implementing enterprises of their respective obligations under 
sub-project agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, and in such detail as the 
Page  6
Association shall reasonably
request, a report on the progress and status of the Project.
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.04. Upon completion of the study under Part D of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) not later than January 31, 1993, submit to the Association, for 
comments, an action plan giving
details of measures that the Borrower proposes to take in order to give effect to the 
recommendations of the study; and (b) not later than July 31, 1993, and subject to 
comments provided by the Association, take appropriate steps to implement such action 
plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the 
Effective Date, submit to the Association, for its review and comments, final 
proposals for technical assistance under Part B of the Project, and for increasing 
grassroots participation under Part E.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agency to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of the Executing Agency.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agency to:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements of the Project 
(balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), and the 
records and accounts for the Special 
Account, for the first two quarters after 
the Effective Date and, 
thereafter, for each semi-annual period audited in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than one month after the end of the quarterly periods or two 
months after the 
end of the semi-annual periods referred to, as the 
case may be, in 
sub-paragraph (i) above: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statement for 
such period as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Executing Agency to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in each of the 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of each such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such audit period, together with 
the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to suport the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Executing Agency will be able to perform its obligations under the Convention;
(b)
the Statutes of the Executing Agency shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Executing Agency to
perform any of its obligations under the Convention;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Executing Agency, or for the 
suspension of its operations;
(d)
the Borrower or the Executing Agency shall have failed to perform any of 
their respective obligations under the Convention;
(e)
the Convention shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project or the performance by the 
Executing Agency of its obligations under the Convention;
(f)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms thereof, or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Page  8
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Executing Agency has been established and adequately staffed, and a 
Director General, a Technical Director and a Financial Director, all of whom shall 
have qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, have been duly recruited;
(b)
the Executing Agency has submitted to the Association, and obtained its 
approval for, an initial program of selected sub-projects representing an aggregate 
estimated cost of at least
$4,780,000 equivalent;
(c)
the Convention has been duly signed by the Borrower and the Executing 
Agency;
(d)
the Executing Agency has prequalified, and obtained the approval of the 
Association for, an initial list of contractors and engineering firms considered 
eligible, under the Procedures Manual, to bid for labor-intensive civil works or 
services, as the case may be, financed under the Project;
(e)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
selected, and the accounting system of the Executing Agency duly computerized and 
effective to meet the requirements specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
(f)
the Executing Agency has submitted to the Association, for approval, its 
proposals for a training program under Part E.1 of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Convention has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Executing Agency and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Executing Agency in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister of Planning is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministcre du Plan et de la Cooperation
B. P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
Page  9
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Paul Desire Kabore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-projects:
    (a) works-oriented           6,050,000      100%
    (b) services-oriented        4,000,000      100%
(2) Services to                  1,130,000      100%
    contractors
    under Part B
    of the Project
(3) Operating costs of           1,250,000      100%
    Executing Agency
(4) Equipment for                  200,000      100%
    Executing Agency
Page  10
(5) Consultants' services          940,000      100%
(6) Refunding of                 1,130,000      Amount due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                    300,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     15,000,000
                                ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
"operating costs" means the incremental costs incurred by the Executing 
Agency under the Project on account of local staff salaries and allowances, 
maintenance of vehicles, fuel and equipment, and office rent, supplies and services; 
and
(b)
"sub-project" includes civil works and services contracts, detailed 
designs, works and contracts supervision, and the preparation of technical project 
proposals.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to finance a program of small municipal 
works in the area of infrastructure upgrading and rehabilitation; (b) to promote local 
private contractors and
consulting firms in project execution; (c) to improve the individual skills of workers 
and the corporate competitiveness of firms; (d) to create substantial new employment 
in urban areas using the private sector; (e) to review existing public works programs 
and recast them with the intent of speeding up their implementation and overall 
performance, and (f) to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and 
test the procedures that will enable the public sector to commission such projects 
that are economically viable and socially desirable.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.
Civil works-oriented sub-projects to be carried out under labor-intensive 
schemes by local contractors, including, but not limited to, the construction and 
repair of urban infrastructure and
public facilities.
2.
Services-oriented sub-projects, such as street and drainage network cleaning, 
and garbage removal, to be carried out under similar conditions as in paragraph 1 
above.
Part B:
Services designed to increase the technical and managerial capacity of small-and 
medium-scale contracting firms engaged in the execution of sub-projects under Part A 
above, and consisting of:
(a)
a business administration and financial management training program 
intended for entrepreneurs and their administrative staff;
Page  11
(b)
a work organization training program primarily designed for foremen; and
 
(c)
various technical training courses to improve the skills of basic 
workers.
Part C:
Supervision and monitoring, including management and financial audits of the 
Executing Agency, studies of the impact and performance of already implemented 
sub-projects and the performance of procurement procedures, all of which are specially 
designed to closely monitor the progress of the Project and prepare the transition 
towards locally-supported employment of the target group.
Part D:
Study and audit of the Public Investment Program to uncover the bottlenecks in 
procurement, contracting, works supervision, payments and audits that impede project 
implementation.
Part E:
1.
A training program for beneficiaries and engineering firms for the preparation 
of feasibility studies and technical project proposals.
2.
A program aimed at increasing grassroots participation in urban infrastructure 
maintenance, by disseminating information on the Project to selected groups of the 
population and, thereby,
increasing people's awareness of the objectives of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less per 
contract may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to
the Association, amongst bidders who have been prequalified on the basis of criteria 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, or for which less than 5 bids have been received, the procedures 
Page  12
set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Executing Agency in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause the Executing Agency to employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
Page  13
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  14
including the General Conditions.
