Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18730
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 3659-BR)
December 21, 1998
Country Managing Unit for Brazil
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (BRL)
US$1.00 = BRL 1.12
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AIDS               Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CSW                Commercial sex workers
CTA                Counseling and testing centers
DALY               Disability Adjusted Life Year
HIV                Human Imrnmunodeficiency Virus
IEC                Information, education and communication
IVDU               Intravenous drug use
MOH                Ministry of Health
MSM                Men who have sex with Men
NASCP              National AIDS and STD Control Program
NGO                Non-governmental organization
STD                Sexually transmitted disease
SUS                Single Unlified Health System
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
Vice President:     Shahid Javed Burki
CMU Director:       Gobind T. Nankani
SMU Director (A):   Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader: Patricio Millan
Task Manager:       Anabela Abreu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
(Ln. 3659-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................................i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................... ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Background                 ....................................       1
B. Project Objectives ....................................3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................4
D. Evaluation of Objectives               ................................... 13
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project             .        .............................. 14
F. Project Sustainability ...................................                   15
G. Bank Performance                 ..                  ................................. 17
H. Borrower Performance                ................................... 17
I. Assessment of Outcome ...................................                    18
J. Future Operations ...................................                        20
K. Key Lessons Learned                .. ................................. 20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .................................              23
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................          25
Table 3:  Project Timetable .................................                   26
Table 4:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ............. 26
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................ 27
Table 6:  Key Impact Indicators ................................................   28
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project ........................................... 28
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................        31
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................    32
Table 9:  Cost Effectiveness and Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .... 32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  ................................................ 33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............. 34
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW. Actual) ....................... 34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................ 35
ANNEXES
Borrower's Final Evaluation Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3659-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the AIDS and STD Control
Project in Brazil, for which Loan 3659-BR in the amount of US$ 160 million equivalent
was approved on November 9, 1993 and made effective on June 1, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Anabela Garcia-Abreu (Public Health Specialist,
LCSHD), in collaboration with John Wilson (consultant) and Sarah Menezes of the
Human Development Sector Management Unit. It was reviewed by Patricio Millan of
the Country Managing Unit for Brazil of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office, Polly Jones (formner Task Manager), Sandra Rosenhouse (Population Specialist),
John Garrison (NGO Specialist) and Alexandre Abrantes (Country Sector Leader -
Argentina and Senior Public Health Specialist). The borrower provided comments on the
draft ICR and a Final Evaluation Report attached to this report.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
missions, in December 1997 and March 1998. The same missions undertook preparation
and appraisal of a follow up project, the Second AIDS and STD Control Project. This
report is based on material in the project file, interviews with staff and consultants
involved in project preparation and supervision, and input from the borrower.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3659-BR)
Executive Summary
When the AIDS and STD Control Project was identified in 1993, HIV infection
was spreading rapidly among all ages, sexes and regions in Brazil. The objectives of the
AIDS and STD Control Project were: (a) to reduce incidence and transmission of HIV
and STDs; and (b) to strengthen public and private institutions engaged in AIDS and
STD control. These were to be achieved through a range of activities organized under
four components (Prevention, Treatment, Institutional Development and Surveillance,
Research and Evaluation) and executed by public and private institutions at the federal,
state, and local levels. The project was executed by the Ministry of Health through the
National AIDS and STD Control Program (NASCP) under the Secretariat for Health
Policy. The total project investment of US$250 million represents roughly one third of
the total government expenditure on AIDS prevention and treatment between 1994 and
1998.
The project leaves in place an institutional framework for AIDS and STD control
that is strongly supported by partnerships with state and local governnents and numerous
NGOs. The National AIDS and STD Control Program possesses many features which
international experience has shown to be effective in preventing the spread of HIV,
including the targeting of high risk groups (commercial sex workers, intravenous drug
users, men who have sex with men, adolescents, and others), a focus on behavior change,
counseling and testing services, and community-based projects designed and carried out
by NGOs.
The project supported an Information, Education and Communications (IEC)
program that  produced seven national  publicity campaigns,  other behavioral
interventions, and collaboration with the press. Today, AIDS awareness in Brazil is very
high: a survey taken in 1997 showed that 84 percent of women and 88 percent of men
(aged 15-30) know that using a condom is one way to avoid AIDS. The project also
established a network of counseling and testing centers (CTAs) and by 1997 provided
over 60,000 HIV tests from about 139 testing sites around the country. The project
distributed about 119,000,000 condoms and set up a national logistical system for
condom distribution. The project also promoted AIDS education in the workplace which
has led to significant and growing involvement of the business and labor community in
AIDS prevention.



iii
A large part of the project's outreach activities were carried out by 181 NGOs
through 444 different subprojects. The project supported 15 such projects among IV
drug users, 28 among homosexuals, 54 among commercial sex workers, 56 among
adolescents, 17 among school children, 14 among low income populations, 40 among
women and over 200 others including projects among truck drivers, miners, workers, and
street people.
Project goals to reduce the number of hospitalizations among persons with HIV/AIDS,
were met through support for 31 Therapeutic Home Health Care units., 49 Day Hospitals
and 66 Specialized Ambulatory Service units.  The project also accredited  340
conventional hospitals in AIDS/STD care and supported 140 NGO treatment subprojects,
including 40 support homes for people with AIDS. The project also put in place a
national STD network with over 700 health units trained and equipped to carry out
effective diagnosis and treatment of STDs.  It also supported training for health
professionals in the diagnosis of STDs, distribution of medications to treat STDs and
STD prevention campaigns, and blood screening of women admitted to maternity
services.
The project supported institutional development including training and upgrading
of laboratory facilities. Over the life of the project, about 21,600 health professionals
received training in 769 different training courses in treatment, prevention, epidemiology,
laboratory skills, and management. The project leaves in place an impressive nationwide
network of laboratory facilities and trained personnel providing laboratory services to
support diagnosis, treatment and research for HIV/AIDS and STDs.
The project's first attempt to set up an HIV sentinel surveillance system proved
unsuccessful. The system was redesigned in 1997 to monitor HIV prevalence in 150
health services (maternity clinics, emergency rooms, and STD clinics) throughout Brazil.
These data will be complemented with AIDS notification data, data from CTAs, data
from Army conscript surveys and special prevalence studies to be carried out among
specific high risk groups, to construct a more accurate picture of the HIV epidemic in
Brazil. The surveillance system has thus far provided essential baseline data which will
permit evaluation of the epidemiological impact of the follow up project. The project
also set up an STD surveillance network comprised of 72 STD clinics around the country.
The project also invested about US$6 million in over 60 behavioral, social, biological and
clinical studies.
Overall, Borrower and Bank performance were satisfactory. Project objectives
were largely met within the projected timetable. Although some participating institutions
such as the city of Sao Paulo had significant delays in executing project activities, most
states and municipalities performed very well. NGO participation exceeded expectations.
There were two major problems that were not resolved during implementation: First,
evaluation was not satisfactory making it impossible to quantify the impact of project
interventions on high-risk behaviors and populations. The program's evaluation unit was
not adequately staffed nor was it equipped with appropriate instruments to evaluate
project impact.  A second serious shortcoming of the project was the inadequate



iv
supervision (on the part of the borrower and the Bank) of procurement activities
subcontracted to the UNDP.
This review of project implementation offers several lessons. The program's early
efforts to build a constituency for the project among states, municipalities and NGOs
proved valuable in assuring a rapid project start up and timely project execution.
Involvement of NGOs was critical to reaching a number of high-risk populations
especially commercial sex workers, IV drug users and men who have sex with men.
Evaluation of behavior change is difficult and will require greater attention to evaluation
staffing requirements and more effective design and implementation of survey
instruments for impact assessment. Greater attention to cost-effectiveness analysis of
specific interventions would permit a better understanding of their relative priority in the
overall AIDS and STD control program. More intensive supervision, by project
management and by the Bank, of the procurement process is necessary when
procurement activities are contracted out to third parties. Finally, the program could take
better advantage of opportunities to integrate the various activities in prevention,
surveillance, diagnosis, treatment, training and evaluation.
A follow up project, the Second AIDS and STD Control Project, was approved by the
Board on September 15, 1998.



1
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background: HIV/AIDS and STDs in Brazil
1.    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is the final stage of infection
with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). AIDS affects all age groups, but
predominantly adults, largely due to its modes of transmission through unprotected sex or
sharing of needles. HIV can also be transmitted from pregnant mothers to their newborn
children. About 1.5 million people died from complications associated with AIDS in
1996. Every day about 8,500 people, including 1000 children, become newly infected
with HIV. In Brazil, AIDS cases reported annually rose from 1 in 1980 to 15,500 in
1993. When this project was identified, HIV infection was spreading rapidly among all
ages, sexes and regions.  As of May 1998, Brazil ranked fourth in the world with
approximately 135,000 registered cases of AIDS. Recently, the growth rate of AIDS
has slowed and new cases reported fell from 18,890 in 1996 to 16,075 in 1997. The
decline is probably due to the impact of new anti-retroviral therapies that slow the
progression of HIV disease to full-blown AIDS. The AIDS definition used in Brazil
(based on criteria set by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control) incorporates various
indicators of immune function such as CD4 lymphocyte cell levels and presence of
certain opportunistic infections.
2.    The first wave of the AIDS epidemic in Brazil was concentrated among men who
have sex with men who accounted for 75 percent of cases in 1984. This was followed by
an epidemic among intravenous drug users, most of whom are also men. Cases attributed
to sharing of contaminated needles rose from 3 percent in 1984 to 20 percent in 1995.
Later, the epidemic spread to sex workers and female partners of bisexual men and
intravenous drug users, causing cases attributed to heterosexual contact to rise from 2
percent in 1984 to 28 percent in 1995. By 1995, cases attributed to men who have sex
with men fell to 25 percent.
3.    Of cases reported in 1997/98 (first semester), 51 percent could be attributed to
sexual transmission (21 percent among men who have sex with men and 30 percent
among heterosexuals), 17 percent to IV drug use, 1 percent to contaminated blood
products, 3 percent to mother to child transmission and 27 percent unknown.
4.    While two thirds of all AIDS cases are found in the Southeast region of the
country, the epidemic has now spread to every state. Today, nearly half of all
municipalities have reported at least one case of AIDS. At the start of the epidemic
nearly all AIDS patients were males. Now, about 30 percent are women. The age
profile of the epidemic is also changing as new patients become younger. In addition,
more lower-income people are being affected as suggested by a decline in educational
attainment levels.



2
5.   In 1993, a mathematical model was used to estimate that 338,000 to 488,000
Brazilians between the ages of 15 and 49 were infected with HIV. Reliable empirical
data on HIV prevalence (percent of population infected with HIV at a given time) in
Brazil did not become available until 1998. The HIV surveillance system set up at the
start of the project proved inadequate and had to be entirely re-designed.  A much
improved surveillance system is now in place and has produced reliable prevalence data
for 1997 showing an HIV prevalence rate of 1.8% among pregnant women (20-24), 4.1%
among emergency room patients (20-24), 4.0% among patients in STD clinics (20-24)
and 0.5% among Army conscripts.
6.    The project also supported prevention and treatment of other STDs because they
can facilitate transmission of HIV.  STDs, when present in persons with HIV, also
increase the severity and hasten the onset of the symptoms of AIDS.  The MOH
estimates prevalence of syphillis among pregnant women at 3.5 to 4%. Notification data
from 1996 and 1997 indicate about 4 cases per 1000 live births but under notification is
probably high. Mortality for congenital syphillis is estimated to be between 70 and 100
per million live births
7.    Despite advances in drug therapies that slow progression from HIV infection to
AIDS, there is still no cure. Prevention, through behavior change, remains the only
alternative for reducing new infections. The best strategy to slow the spread of AIDS,
and the strategy adopted by Brazil, is targetting of population groups most likely to
acquire and transmit HIV. In Brazil, such "high risk" groups include intravenous-drug
users, men who have sex with men, and commercial sex workers - groups that may prove
difficult to identify and reach with information that leads to significant avoidance of HIV.
Adolescents, women and the poor have also been identified as high risk groups. The
challenge for public health officials is to track high risk populations through
epidemiological surveillance, to carry out relevant behavioral studies, and to discover the
most cost- effective means to promote behavior change. It is important to note that, from
the start, this project was conceived as an experimental initiative to understand and
address an evolving epidemic. Institutional capacity to understand and respond to
changing conditions will be critical to building and maintaining effective AIDS control.
8.    The total project investment of US$250 million represents roughly one third of
the total government expenditure on AIDS prevention and treatment between 1994 and
1998. Over the life of the project, Brazil invested about US$530 million in AIDS
related drugs, about US$64 million in hospitalizations, about US$23 million in state and
municipal counterpart funds and an unknown amount for ambulatory care, human
resources, and maintenance of infrastructure. Including the costs of the project, the total
government investment in the fight against AIDS and STDs over the life of the project
exceeded US$867 million.



3
B. Project Objectives and Implementation Arrangements
Project Objectives
9.    The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were: (a) to
reduce incidence and transmission of HIV and STDs; and (b) to strengthen public and
private institutions engaged in AIDS and STD control. These general objectives were to
be achieved through a broad range of activities organized under four different project
components and executed by a number of institutions at the federal, state, and local
levels, both public and private. The four project components were guided by more
specific objectives:
10.   Prevention. The objectives of this component were to carry out and evaluate
mass media campaigns (Information, Education and Communication Campaigns or IEC),
strengthen capacity to diagnose HIV/AIDS and STDs, and strengthen public and non-
governmental organization (NGO) capacity to provide appropriate counseling and
behavior change interventions to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and STDs.
11.   Treatment. The objectives of this component were to establish an institutional
framework and technical capacity to identify and treat all STDs, to integrate HIV/AIDS
prevention and treatrnent with counseling services, and to establish lower cost, non-
hospital alternatives for HIV/AIDS patient care that could improve quality of life for
people with AIDS.
12.   Institutional Development. The objectives of this component were to train
health workers in all relevant areas of prevention, treatment and diagnosis of HIV/AIDS
and STDs, to upgrade the laboratory system to a standard and capacity consistent with
HIV/AIDS and STD testing needs, and to provide resources for specialized technical
assistance as needed by the national program.
13.   Epidemiological Surveillance, Evaluation, and Research. The objectives of
this component were to set up epidemiological surveillance systems for HIV/AIDS and
STDs, to evaluate prevention, diagnostic and treatment services, and to support research
projects relevant to the design and operation of HIV/AIDS and STD control efforts
(including cost and economic impact analyses).
Implementation Arrangements
14.   The project was executed by the Ministry of Health through the National AIDS
and STD Control Program (NASCP) under the Secretariat for Health Policy. The United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) was contracted to provide procurement
assistance. In addition to financing federal activities, the project transferred resources to
states and selected municipalities to be used in AIDS/STD prevention programs and to
organizations of civil society (NGOs) to carry out prevention, outreach and treatment



4
activities. These three groups (federal, state, and NGOs) managed roughly equal shares
of project resources.
15.   Transfers to states and municipalities were made on the basis of annual
operational plans and were effected in line with expectations. Project activities were
largely supervised by program personnel from Brasilia. Efforts are underway to train
qualified state and municipal personnel to carry out more supervision functions under the
follow up project. Late ill the project, the national program began to encourage the
formation of consortia among smaller municipalities, in order to promote more efficient
organization of investments and interventions.
16.   Transfers to NGOs were made on the basis of competitively selected sub-projects.
The application and selection process set up at the start has functioned well. However,
as the volume of NGO proposals has grown so has the burden on the selection committee,
which currently reviews all proposals during one review session per year. The program
is examining options to facilitate the review of proposals during the 1999 competition.
Supervision of NGO projects has been carried out, thus far, by the federal program. The
follow up project will begin to promote the transfer of supervision and evaluation of
NGO sub-projects to state and municipal agencies.
C. Achievement of Objectives
General Objectives: Reducing Incidence of HIV/AIDS and STDs and Institutional
Development
17.   The project leaves in place an institutional framework for AIDS and STD control
that is strongly supported by partnerships with state and local governments and numerous
NGOs. The National AIDS and STD Control Program possesses many features which
international experience has shown to be effective in preventing the spread of HIV,
including the targeting of high risk groups, a focus on behavior change, counseling and
testing services, and comnmunity-based projects designed and carried out by NGOs.
18.   We cannot accurately quantify the degree to which the project has achieved its
epidemiological objectives. First, the long incubation period for HIV (an average of ten
years or more) makes it impossible to judge the impact of the project based on reported
cases of AIDS. Second, reliable baseline data on HIV prevalence were not available at
the time of project preparation. Studies to collect baseline data were supported under the
project but did not produce reliable HIV prevalence data until the surveillance system
was redesigned in 1997.  The first surveillance effort had several shortcomings:
participating sites included voluntary AIDS institutions which biased the sample, sample
sizes were too small, and most of the participating sites failed to follow the research
design.
19.   We can infer, however, that some of the program's efforts have influenced
behavior enough to result in a threefold increase in condom sales over the life of the
project. Hopefully, this can be interpreted as a likely increase in the practice of safer sex
and consequently in reduced transmission of HIV. Survey data from 1993 and 1996



5
showed a moderate increase from 25% to 37% of males responding that they "always
use" a condom. The percentage responding that they "almost always" use a condom rose
from 14% to 19%.
Specific Objectives: Implementation Review by Component
20.   Modifications in the Project. At the time of project preparation, public health
officials were only beginning to understand the nature of the AIDS epidemic in Brazil
and how best to confront it. It was therefore particularly important that the national
program maintain the capacity and flexibility to re-evaluate and adjust its policies and
actions as needed. The fundamental control strategy of targeting interventions to groups
most likely to acquire and transmit HIV remained the same throughout the life of the
project.  Some changes in focus were made, however, in response to a better
understanding of the epidemic, institutional constraints, and experience with specific
interventions
21.   Reallocation of Loan Funds. Economic liberalization policies in Brazil resulted
in lower prices for laboratory equipment and supplies than anticipated at appraisal. The
resulting surplus in these categories was reallocated primarily to drugs (primarily for
STDs), instructional materials and consultant services. The increase in drugs was also
used to purchase some anti-retroviral drugs (AZT) to treat HIV infected pregnant women
and newborns. The funds reallocated to instructional materials were used for IEC
activities undertaken at the federal level, which proved to have a higher capacity for
quality work than the states and municipalities. The funds reallocated to consultant
services were used to reinforce the prevention division of the program in Brasilia as well
as to support additional research.
Prevention Component
22.   Information, Education and Communication (IEC). The project helped to
consolidate an IEC program that involves production of national publicity campaigns,
behavioral interventions, and collaboration with mass media. The national publicity
campaigns disseminate information about high risk behavior, behavioral interventions
target specific risk groups using printed materials and video, and collaboration with mass
media includes maintenance of a homepage on the world wide web (aids.gov.br) and
works closely with the press to disseminate information about the AIDS epidemic.
23.   Seven national IEC campaigns were carried out under the project, one more than
projected in the SAR. Overall, the level of AIDS awareness in Brazil is very high. In
1997, 84% of women and 88% of men (aged 15-30) surveyed stated that using condoms
is a way of avoiding AIDS. It is not possible, however, to attribute all of this level of
AIDS awareness to the project or to earlier IEC campaigns since there are many other
ways that AIDS information is disseminated in society. The program also carried out
two national studies of campaign impact on knowledge of AIDS and AIDS prevention,



6
as well as other studies of AIDS/STD awareness, condom use and other safe sex
practices.
24.   Although pre-intervention surveys were usually conducted, post-intervention
surveys were not required in the IEC contracts. Post-intervention surveys should be
required in future IEC contracts, in order to improve evaluation capacity and encourage
better pre-testing. The national program could also strengthen state and municipal
capacity in AIDS prevention by supporting training in the preparation and evaluation of
IEC materials.
25.   Counseling and Testing Centers (CTAs). There is evidence in both developed
and developing countries that CTAs are a cost-effective intervention for AIDs prevention.
The CTAs supported under this project use a client/group-centered approach based on
individual risk assessment and promotion of specific prevention behaviors unique to the
lifestyle and risk factors of the client/group. This approach is consistent with the latest
behavioral research on the subject. By 1997, the CTA subcomponent provided over
60,000 HIV tests from about 100 testing sites around the country. An additional 39
CTAs are in the process of being implemented, bringing the total number to 139 CTAs,
nine more than projected in the original implementation plan. The selection of CTA sites
was based on number of reported AIDS cases, HIV prevalence in local blood banks and
availability of HIV treatment services. The CTA network is now present in all states
except Acre and workshops are offered annually for institutions interested in setting up
new CTAs.
26.   Better integration of CTA activities with epidemiological surveillance, IEC, the
laboratory network and other aspects of AIDS prevention would help to optimize the
impact of this key intervention. Towards this end the program is implementing several
changes in CTA management including an extensive evaluation of professional capacity
and CTA coverage, strengthening the counseling functions of the CTAs through
appropriate training of CTA professionals, updating the manual of norns and procedures,
bringing CTA coordinators together for annual workshops, establishment of regional
training centers for CTA staff, and closer integration of CTA counseling activities with
all local AIDS and STD treatment services and with local NGO activities. Efforts are
underway (jointly with the National Health Surveillance Service) to upgrade local
laboratory capacity and improve turn around time for laboratory results which in some
areas is as much as 60 days (the maximum should be 15 days). The CTA unit is also
coordinating meetings between CTA managers and local health authorities to discuss the
turn over of responsibility for CTA operations to the states and municipalities.
27.   Condom  Procurement and Distribution.  The project distributed about
119,000,000 condoms through the end of project. Initially, distribution was to the
general public. In 1995, the program began distribution of condoms in association with
information and education efforts targeted to specific high risk populations. This
refinement in strategy brought condom distribution efforts in line with the program's
overall focus on targeting behavior change interventions to the specific population groups
most likely to acquire and transmit HIV. Also, the project set up a national logistical



7
system for condom distribution to control condom stocks, improve flow and maintain a
record of the number of persons receiving condoms.
28.   Sales of domestic and imported condoms rose from 53 million in 1992 to 70
million in 1993 and to 228 million in 1997. Rising condom sales over the life of the
project is a probable indicator of an increase in safer sex practices. As noted above,
survey data from 1993 and 1996 showed a moderate increase from 25% to 37% of males
responding that they "always use" a condom.
29.   Community Outreach and Egos. The project supported HIV prevention efforts
targeted to high-risk groups including homosexuals, comnmercial sex workers, IV drug
users, adolescents and others as well as programs to bring AIDS education to the
workplace. A large part of the project's outreach activities were carried out by 181 Egos
through 444 competitively selected projects. Egos play an important part in AIDS
prevention and are particularly effective because of their understanding of and
association with special, high-risk client populations. The project supported 15 projects
for IV drug users, 28 among homosexuals, 54 among commercial sex workers, 56 among
adolescents, 17 among school children, 14 among low income populations, 40 among
women and over 200 others including projects arnong truck drivers, miners, workers, and
street people.
30.   The NGO program was well defined and directed. Overall the subprojects were
balanced in terms of type of activity, type of recipient organization, geographic location
and target population. The NGO liaison office was well organized with a capable staff,
showed good docurnentation and c,ata management and demonstrated a user-friendly and
responsive attitude towards its NGO clients. Quarterly progress reports were submitted
by the Egos and on-site supervision was carried out by national program staff.
Information exchange among Egos was promoted through an NGO catalog and seminars
to bring participating Egos together. The mid-term review of the project offered several
recommendations regarding NGO projects. First, given the need for a transition strategy
to ensure financial sustainability of NGO activities, MOH should help build NGO
strategic planning and fundraising capacity and encourage more collaboration with
private corporate foundations. Second, MOH should take steps to further involve state
and municipal governments in the selection and evaluation of subprojects. Third,
reporting and monitoring should be carried out with greater uniformity and continuity.
The review also recommended greater emphasis on early training of NGO subproject
staff and 6-month extensions of the one-year funding time frame when necessary. Efforts
to implement these recommendations will continue under the follow up project.
31.   The demand for financing from Egos has increased considerably over the life of
the project and in the 1998 competition there were over 400 proposals for new projects
and over 130 for extension of existing projects. All of the extension proposals received
grants and funds were available to support only 51 of the new proposals. No doubt, many
worthy proposals are being denied. In light of this growing demand, the program should
explore alternatives for future financing of Egos and carefully consider how it can best
continue to promote the important expansion of NGO involvement in the fight against
AIDS.



8
32.   Other Outreach Activities. The project helped to set up and expand an AIDS
Hotline that provides AIDS information to about 1000 callers per day throughout Brazil.
The project supported 27 subprojects among indigenous groups, bringing AIDS/STD
prevention and services to 77 villages and 160,000 indigenous people. The project also
organized a National Human Rights Network comprised of about 1400 institutional and
individual members, to confront AIDS discrimination. The network publishes a weekly
newsletter and has sponsored dozens of meetings, seminars and workshops for patient
groups, health and legal professionals, civil servants and others.
33.   AIDS Prevention among Adolescents.  The project supported prevention
activities directed towards adolescents with special emphasis on training of teachers
working with adolescents, in partnership with the Ministry of Education, the Roquete
Pinto Foundation and Brazilian educational television (TV Escola).   The project
produced printed and audiovisual educational materials for pre-adolescent arnd adolescent
audiences. Through educational television the project reached an estimated 70,000
teachers working with adolescents. The project also targeted adolescents through the
Drugs and AIDS subcomponent of the project, discussed below. In addition, there were
56 NGO executed projects targeting adolescents.
34.   AIDS Prevention among Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs). The project
supported 54 NGO executed projects with CSWs which carried out AIDS and STD
prevention education and condom distribution. The project also supported a detailed
study of commercial sex workers in 9 metropolitan areas (Belem, Fortaleza, Recife,
Salvador, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Curitiba and Porto Alegre) carried
out by the Public Health Studies Nucleus of the Center for Advanced Multidisciplinary
Studies, University of Brasilia. The researchers used focus groups and individual
interviews to provide an "ethnographic" overview of prostitution in these urban areas.
35.   AIDS Prevention among Men Who Have Sex With Men (MSMs). In addition
to IEC campaigns that targeted homosexual and bisexual audiences, there were a total of
28 NGO executed projects that worked at the community level with men who have sex
with men. These projects carried out educational activities focusing on safer sex
practices and distributed condoms. The project also supported three cohort studies (700
to 1000 participants in each) to collect incidence data and data on knowledge and
behavior among MSMs: Projeto Bela Vista (Sao Paulo), Projeto Horizontes (Minas
Gerais) and Projeto Rio (Rio de Janeiro). Preliminary results show an increase in
knowledge about HIV transmission, as well as an increase in safer sex practices among
the men in these cohorts.  The project also supported a national conference for
researchers and others working in prevention programs among MSMs and participation
in a regional conference in Bogota, Colombia.
36.   AIDS Prevention among Intravenous Drug Users.  The Drugs and AIDS
project of the CN-DST/AIDS has two primary objectives: first, prevention of drug abuse
and HIV infection among the general population and among high risk groups and second,
reduction or stabilization of HIV transmission among IV drug users through education
and  needle exchange.   The project trained  over 5,700  teachers/multipliers
(multiplicadores) and 15,200 students/multipliers to carry out drugs and AIDS education



9
programs in schools in the major metropolitan areas of ten states (Rio, Sao Paulo, Rio
Grande do Sul, Parana, Santa Catarina, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, the Federal
District, Bahia and Ceara).  The project also sought out and trained personnel in
government and non-governmental institutions involved in projects relevant to drug use
and AIDS. This included establishment of two regional training centers in the Center
West and South regions and three reference centers which together trained 470
multipliers to carry out prevention activities and 123 persons to work in "harm reduction"
(i.e., needle exchange and "safe" IV drug use) programs. The project supported 17 NGO
community projects related to drugs and AIDS prevention and two research projects on
drug use. The project worked directly with over 10,000 IV drug users and many of their
families through 12 "harm reduction" projects in 12 major metropolitan areas with
serious drug use problems, and 11 drug treatment centers. This subcomponent also
supported two behavioral surveys (including HIV seroprevalence) of over 700 IV drug
users, as well as in depth evaluations of all drugs and AIDS project activities.
37.   AIDS Prevention and the Workplace. This subcomponent of the project has
helped strengthen private sector involvement in the fight against AIDS.  Activities
included production and distribution of educational materials, operational manuals on
AIDS education in the workplace, training courses, and workshops. The project has
fomented partnerships with business groups including the Social Services of Industry
(5,000 business members) and the CGT and CUT (two major labor groups in Brazil with
over 4000 syndical and business members). One of the most important by-products of
this effort to involve the private sector was the creation of the Business Council
(Conselho Empresarial) that is comprised of 24 large businesses with over 1 million
workers. The mission of the Business Council is to be a catalyst to IEC campaigns in the
business community. The Council has pledged to produce and distribute one million
copies of the AIDS in the Workplace manuals designed by the NASCP to provide
technical guidance to interested businesses in how to design and set up AIDS education
programs in the workplace.
Treatment Services Component
38.   Alternative HIV/AIDS Treatment Services. Project goals to reduce the number
of hospitalizations among persons with HIV/AIDS, were met through support for various
altemative services including 31 Therapeutic Home Health Care units, 49 Day Hospitals
and 66 Specialized Ambulatory Service units. The project also supported accreditation of
340 conventional hospitals in AIDS/STD care. In addition, the project supported 140
NGO-executed treatment projects including the establishment of 40 "Casas de Apoio"
(support homes) for people with AIDS. Studies of the impact of these alternative services
on hospitalizations and related cost-benefit studies are not yet complete but will also be
supported under the follow up project.
39.   STD Treatment Services. The project leaves behind a national STD network
with over 700 health units trained and equipped to carry out effective diagnosis and
treatrnent of STDs. The program has also provided standardized training for health
professionals in the diagnosis of STDs, distribution of medications to treat STDs and
STD prevention campaigns, and blood screening of women admitted to maternity



10
services. Effectiveness of this training initiative was demonstrated by an immediate
increase in reporting of STD cases.
40.   Community/Basic Health Services Network and AIDS/STDs. The project also
supported training of over 2,000 nurses and 17,000 community health workers involved
in the Community/Basic Health Services Network AIDS and STD Prevention and
Control Project which provides counseling for HIV testing for pregnant women and
STDs patients, identifies and refers STD patients and their partners to basic health
services, and makes home visits to monitor pregnant women with syphillis.
41.   Treatment of HIV Positive Mothers to Prevent Vertical Transmission. This
subcomponent provided anti-retroviral treatment to pregnant women with HIV and
trained about 500 health professionals in the specialized care of pregnant women with
HIV.
42.   Logistical System for Drugs. The program also set up a computerized system
for logistical management of anti-retroviral and other AIDS related drugs. The system
manages information about number of patients on these drugs, drug stocks and drug
distribution.
Institutional Development Component
43.   Training.  The training subcomponent established a strong institutional
framework to satisfy present training needs in prevention, patient care, laboratory
services, and surveillance. The system now in place also has the capacity to expand to
meet future demands. Originally, the national program planned to carry out most of a
comprehensive training schedule using central program staff and a network of 14
reference centers. Early on in project implementation, however, the program sought help
in fulfilling its diverse and extensive training needs.  In collaboration with states and
municipalities, the program developed and implemented a decentralized training strategy
involving 24 universities, 6 national reference centers located in major hospitals, 26
nursing colleges and 28 STD training centers. The national program also publishes a
training catalog listing all the AIDS and STD-related training opportunities available
through the program. The program's training specialists also provide technical assistance
in design, monitoring and evaluation of training and training materials to participating
institutions at the local level. In addition, an inter-institutional working commission is
maintained to advise on training needs assessment, evaluation, and future directions for
training.
44.   Over the life of the project, about 21,600 health professionals received some form
of training in 769 training courses. This included 546 courses in treatment services
(10,985 trainees), 138 courses in prevention services (8,673 trainees), 72 courses in
epidemiology (1,598 trainees) and 13 courses in management (323 trainees).
45.   Laboratories. The project leaves in place an impressive nationwide network of
laboratory facilities and trained personnel providing laboratory services to support



I1
diagnosis, treatment and research for HIV/AIDS and STDs. The project also supports
TELELAB, a long-distance training program focusing on standardization and upgrading
of laboratory procedures in public and private laboratories.  In 1997, over 4,500
professionals were trained in eight different courses covering blood and secretion
collection techniques and diagnostic testing for HIV and STDs.
46.   Viral load testing was implemented in 43 public laboratories beginning in 1997.
The project also set up a network for T CD4+ lymphocyte testing in 60 laboratories
throughout the country. These activities support management of drug therapies for HIV
and are supervised through a computerized reporting and supervision system. A national
system for quality assurance monitors the quality of diagnostic technologies used by the
program. The laboratory network is also used to monitor HIV subtypes and emergence
of HIV resistance to antiretroviral drugs in Brazil.
47.   Blood Supply. The objective of this subcomponent was to standardize methods
and quality control in the existing blood and blood product network operated by the
National Health Surveillance Network (SNVS). Through the TELELAB long-distance
training program the project delivered 12 different training courses to 505 health
professionals in 30 blood banks throughout the country. The courses covered: blood
drawing techniques; diagnosis of syphillis, HIV, HTLV I and II, hepatitis B and C, and
Chagas; production of blood components; and quality control. In addition, the project set
up a quality control system for HIV and syphillis diagnosis covering 45 blood banks.
48.   Direct and Indirect Cost Studies.   The study of direct and indirect costs of
HIV/AIDS/STDs is still underway. It is being carried out by FIPE (Fundacao Instituto
para Pesquisas Economicas) of the University of Sao Paulo and will be completed under
the follow up project.
Surveillance, Research and Evaluation Component
49.   HIV/AIDS Surveillance. The purpose of epidemiological surveillance activities
is to support effective planning and execution of AIDS and STD control strategy.
Surveillance of AIDS cases has been relatively straightforward and is carried out through
universal notification of confirmed cases and collection of epidemiological information
on these cases, published in the AIDS Epidemiological Bulletin of the CN-DST/AIDS.
Efforts to carry out HIV surveillance through a sentinel surveillance system proved more
complex and have been redesigned over the life of the project.
50.   HIV Surveillance. The initial attempt to set up an HIV sentinel surveillance
system encountered a number of problems. The participants in the system were voluntary
and often failed to follow the schedule for collection of samples. Most of them also
failed to maintain an adequate sample size. The resulting confidence intervals were too
high to allow for firmn conclusions to be drawn from the data. This system was therefore
eliminated and a new system was designed. In early 1997, the program launched a
centrally supervised, more tightly organized system to monitor HIV prevalence in 150
health services (maternity clinics, emergency rooms, and STD clinics) throughout Brazil.



12
Participating institutions were carefully selected based on technical qualifications. Thus
far, the new surveillance effort has been more effectively supervised and continues to
build up a more reliable foundation for ongoing surveillance of HIV. Sixteen of the
original participating institutions have been removed from the system, due to their
performance, but others are being added. The system collects blood samples twice a year
from adults with different risk profiles. These data will be complemented with AIDS
notification data, data from CTAs, data from Army conscript surveys and special
prevalence studies to be carried out among specific high risk groups, to construct a more
accurate picture of the HIV epidemic in Brazil. The surveillance system has thus far
provided essential baseline data which will help the program to evaluate the
epidemiological impact of the follow up project.
51.   Surveillance of STDs. Originally, the project was to set up an extensive STD
surveillance system comprised of 27 state-level STD reference centers. The approach
was modified and decentralized during implementation in order to make better use of
state and municipal capacity. Working closely with local institutions, 72 participating
sites were selected based on several factors: personnel trained in diagnosis and treatment
of STDs, access to the medications needed for effective treatment, and physical
laboratory capacity.  The STD  surveillance network also provides data for an
epidemiological bulletin that is produced three times a year.
52.   The STD  surveillance system  supported under the project only provides
information about persons seeking treatment at these specific sites. The data are not
representative of the population at large. The "sample" is biased since persons who
come to these sites come because they are probably symptomatic and believe they may
have an STD. The strengths and weaknesses of the current system should be reviewed
and alternatives for gathering more representative STD prevalence data should be
considered.
53.   The Army Project.  The program has carried out 3 studies of about 850,000
army recruits. HIV/STD prevalence and behavioral data are collected in this ongoing
project which complements the sentinel surveillance system and also provides behavioral
survey data for evaluation of the impact of behavior change interventions.
54.   Research. The project invested about US$6 million in over 60 behavioral, social,
biological and clinical studies. A listing is provided in Part II (Table 7.) of this report.
55.   Evaluation. Performance of this subcomponent was less than satisfactory.
Although the documentation of project execution provides a detailed picture of what was
executed and major operational problems, it offers very little information about the
relative success or failure of key project interventions. The core of AIDS prevention is
behavior change, yet there was no systematic effort to either establish a behavioral
baseline at the start of the project, or to measure behavior change attributable to project
interventions at the end of the project. This should have been a clear priority of the
evaluation unit but it was not.



13
56.   Evaluation issues were highlighted in preparation and launch of the follow up
project. The two principal shortcomings of evaluation that were identified were: first,
inadequate staffing of the evaluation unit and second, inadequate design of evaluation
instruments and strategy. As a first step towards improving evaluation, the dozens of
monitoring and impact indicators listed in the first project SAR were thoroughly
reviewed and a smaller number were carefully selected. In addition, terms of reference
for special studies that will collect behavioral data among specific high risk groups were
prepared. The studies will begin in early 1999. It was agreed that the borrower will
contract at least two higher-level professionals to work full-time on project evaluation.
It was also agreed that the Bank will provide more intensive technical assistance in this
area. The Project Management Unit should also design appropriate evaluation strategies,
including survey instruments, that can be carried out effectively by NGOs and state and
municipal health authorities involved in AIDS and STD prevention.
57.   On the other hand, there have been promising  improvements in the
epidemiological surveillance system, which is also a key component of project
evaluation. Specifically, the new system has defined a reliable epidemiological baseline
from which to measure future trends in the prevalence of HIV.
1). Evaluation of Objectives
58.   The project objectives were clear, relevant and attainable.  The emphasis on
building institutional capacity among numerous states, municipalities and non-
governmental organizations was the most appropriate course of action given the need to
establish a strong, broad-based institutional network capable of adapting interventions to
meet diverse local needs. The project supported the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
to improve public sector efficiency, specifically,  by introducing  cost-effective
interventions to prevent the spread of AIDS and STDs.
59.   Institutionally, the project objectives were broad in scope, involving hundreds of
institutional participants throughout the country and involving diverse activities in
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.  Technically, the project objectives are quite
complex since reducing the transmission of AIDS can only be brought about by causing a
reduction in high risk sexual behaviors and high risk behaviors related to use of
intravenous drugs. The difficulties involved in trying to bring about a sustained change
in these kinds of behaviors - a challenge largely unprecedented in public health -- are
only now beginning to be understood, even in the developed countries.
60.   Nonetheless, borrower performance was satisfactory. The scope and complexity
of the project did not exceed the borrower's capacity to implement this project
effectively. Two factors were particularly important in helping the project to meet its
goals: decentralization and NGO support. First, since health services in Brazil began
decentralizing over a decade ago, state and municipal capacity to deliver curative and
preventive health services has improved. Although there are important exceptions where



14
local project performance was very poor (the city of Sao Paulo, for example), the
decentralized institutional framework for health services in Brazil generally provided an
adequate foundation on which to build a broad national program for AIDS and STD
control. Second, the strong commitment of 181 different NGOs was a key factor in
effective project implementation.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Beyond Government Control
Project implementation was not significantly affected by such factors.
Factors Within Government Control
61.   Political Commitment. Brazil's unequivocal commitment to HIV prevention is
exemplary.   As a clear government priority, the National AIDS and STD Control
Program benefited from timely allocation of the resources needed to confront the
epidemic aggressively and comprehensively. The government has further demonstrated
its commitment by choosing to finance anti-retroviral treatment for all HIV patients. In
addition, the program and the important messages it has conveyed in the media have
received strong support from Brazil's political and cultural leadership. These are very
important factors in raising AIDS awareness and hopefully, in leading to effective
behavior change.
62.   Condom Policy.  Recently, the government strengthened its support for the
project's efforts by suspending internal circulation taxes (ICM) on condoms. Lower
condom prices will improve access to safer sex alternatives for all Brazilians, but
especially for the poor, who are increasingly affected by the epidemic.
63.   Decentralization Policy. The government's ongoing efforts, through the Unified
Health System (SUS), to decentralize responsibilities for health care (including AIDS-
related testing procedures) to the municipal and state levels are promoting development
of the local institutional framework needed for a strong nationwide program for AIDS
and STD control. Although strong leadership and technical guidance at the central level
are essential to program success, effective AIDS control could not be so widely
implemented without the institutional base that is being developed at the local level,
including the important support of numerous local NGOs.



15
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
64.   Strong Management and Technical Capacity. The project was well managed,
executed in a timely fashion and strengthened by an unusual degree of continuity in
project management. From the start, the national program benefited from the very
highest level of technical expertise available in Brazil to design and supervise its
activities. The Program was able to attract and maintain an unusually qualified cadre of
professionals by contracting them under UTNDP contracts at internationally competitive
salaries. While this has been an important factor in program success, it may also have
serious implications for sustainability, which will be discussed below.
65.   Commitment to Beneficiary Participation. From the onset, the borrower was
strongly committed to a high degree of NGO participation.  A total of 181 NGOs
received federal (project) funds to execute 444 separate prevention and treatment projects
among high risk groups. NGO participation is especially important among certain high
risk groups that are difficult to reach and for which interventions must be carefully
tailored such as men who have sex with men, IV drug users and commercial sex
workers.
66.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of project implementation was
satisfactory. Evaluation of efforts to raise awareness of AIDS was also satisfactory.
However, the project did not devote adequate attention to the complex task of evaluating
the outcome of behavior change interventions. In part the inadequacies of evaluation can
be attributed to the scope of the project itself: putting in place, for the first time, a
comprehensive, nationwide AIDS and STD control program. The difficult evaluation
issues were often set aside. During preparation of the follow up project, Bank missions
focused heavily on resolving evaluation issues. Accordingly, behavior change objectives
were more rigorously defined, the key indicators of project impact on behavior were
carefully refined, terms of reference for special studies among specific high risk groups
were prepared and, finally, data from the new epidemiological surveillance system
established an epidemiological baseline for the follow up project.
F. Project Sustainability
67.   Government Commitment.  Sustainability of the project's achievements is
highly likely given the high level of federal, state and local government commitment to
AIDS and STD control.  Federal commitment is further demonstrated by its strong
support for a follow up project that will help to consolidate the institutional foundations
constructed under the first project Sustainability is also strengthened by the continuing
decentralization of HIV/AIDS and STD control activities (including planning and
supervision) to the states and municipalities, making the implementation of these
activities less dependent on federal technical support and funding.



16
68.   NGO and Business Community Commitment. Project sustainability is also
strengthened by the emergence of dozens of NGOs now involved throughout the country
in AIDS/STD prevention and treatment. However, the demand for support from NGOs
has now exceeded the national program's budget for this activity, underscoring the need
to find additional sources of financing for NGO involvement in the fight against AIDS.
Sustainability is also strengthened by the growing involvement of business and labor
groups of the private sector which have demonstrated increasing support for AIDS
education in the workplace.
69.   Heightened AIDS Awareness. AIDS awareness in Brazil is nearly universal.
The mass media campaigns executed by the Program, many of them financed under the
project, have been very successful in broadly disseminating an understanding of HIV,
AIDS,  modes of transmission and means of prevention.  This is a significant
achievement and an important foundation for continuing efforts to promote behavior
change that will reduce the spread of HIV, especially among groups at high risk.
70.  Integration of Program Personnel with MOH. The Program's sustainability
would be enhanced if steps were taken to integrate its large cadre of specialized
professionals into the Ministry of Health. Most of the program staff are currently hired
under contract with UNDP, and financed under the project (as well as the follow up
project). Under the follow up project the borrower has agreed to present a plan (in 200 1)
to fully integrate the program in the MOH. The ongoing decentralization of health
services in Brazil is also expected to eliminate the need for many of the central level
program positions, but a strong corps of technical experts must remain in place to provide
states, municipalities and participating NGOs with technical guidance and quality control.
71.   Evaluation. Improved evaluation capacity, including impact assessment, would
contribute to better planning, ensure responsiveness to changing conditions, and increase
the likelihood of sustaining an effective control program over time. In preparing the
follow up project, the national program has demonstrated its commitment to improving
evaluation and is preparing a comprehensive evaluation plan for 1999 - 2003. The
borrower has also agreed to strengthen the evaluation unit with additional full-time
higher-level personnel.



17
G. Bank Performance
72.   Bank performance was satisfactory. Identification of this project was consistent
with borrower priorities and with Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the health sector
which emphasized cost effective interventions. During preparation the Bank contributed
the expertise of specialized consultants and collaborated with other institutions with
relevant experience including the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the World Health
Organization. This technical input complemented the government's team of highly
qualified public health professionals. The Bank and borrower quickly came to agreement
on a straightforward project design emphasizing the decentralized execution of project
activities and significant NGO participation. The Bank preparation team and the
implementing agency made good use of existing institutional capacity within the MOH
for managing Bank projects, which accelerated project preparation and start up.
73.   At appraisal, it was clear that the national program was exceptionally capable in
many ways related to planning and project execution, but the Bank did not correctly
assess the weaknesses in evaluation capacity of the national program. After the mid-term
review, the Bank did begin devoting more attention to project evaluation, but should have
offered more intensive technical assistance, especially with the design and
implementation of appropriate evaluation instruments.  No significant progress in
evaluation capacity was made between the mid-term and the end of the project, with the
exception of improvements in the sentinel surveillance system. Also at appraisal, the
Bank might also have sought a more specific agreement with the borrower on a timetable
and deadline for the integration of national program staff with the MOH.
74.   Any procurement agents contracted by the borrower to process procurement must
follow the Bank's procurement guidelines. Therefore, in order to catch and resolve
procurement problems at an early stage, the borrower and the Bank should supervise the
procurement process more intensively. In particular, the Bank should periodically review
procurement guidelines and procedures (especially the rules for processing
documentation of expenditures) of third party procurement agents and discuss these with
the borrower and the procurement agent as necessary. The Bank should discuss these
issues directly with UNDP in Brazil since they are managing procurement in a number of
Bank-financed projects.
H. Borrower Performance
75.   Borrower performance was satisfactory.  The major project objectives were
achieved without significant delays.  Project management (technical and  financial),
reporting and auditing, compliance with covenants, and provision of counterpart funds
were satisfactory. A financial management review was carried out during preparation of
the follow up project which concluded that the planning, budgeting, accounting and
reporting systems satisfied project needs. Minor changes were recommended relating to



18
use of the chart of accounts as a management tool, accounting and financial management
capacity in the project unit and codification of some internal procedures. The NASCP
has installed a new financial management system that has been review and approved by
the Bank.
76.   During preparation the borrower made a considerable effort to build support for
the project at state and municipal levels and with key NGOs, i.e. with the actual
executing agencies for most project activities. This important work facilitated project
start up and helped to assure timely implementation. The borrower carefully followed the
agreed outline for a comprehensive project proposal. It was prepared completely and in a
timely fashion, accelerating the appraisal process. The national program drew on the
experience of other MOH and Bank-financed project implementation units, enhancing the
efficiency of project administration. As discussed above, weaknesses in evaluation were
a major concern and a focal point in later supervision and in preparation of the follow up
project.
77.   While most states and municipalities performed well in the planning and
execution of annual operational plans, some did not.  Specifically, some local areas,
including the city of Sao Paulo (mainly due to major changes in the structure of the
organization of Health Care Delivery System and due to poor commitment of the city
government to AIDS Control) experienced major delays in project implementation. In
the follow up project, special attention should be paid to those states and municipalities
which performed poorly under this project.  The reasons for their poor performance
should be identified and measures should be taken to improve future performance.
78.  In several instances the UNDP did not follow Bank procurement guidelines.
Therefore, supervision of procurement being carried out under contract with UNDP needs
to be strengthened.
I. Assessment of Outcome
79.   Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analyses. Between 1994 and 2000 an
estimated 38,100 cases of HIV were prevented due to interventions financed under the
project. This translates into 353,029 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) saved which,
at a present project cost of US$169.7 million, amounts to US$481 per DALY saved. The
direct savings of US$255.4 million give the project a net present value (benefits minus
costs) of US$85.7 million. (Cost figures were converted into 1998 US dollars, an eight
percent discount rate was used and indirect costs were not included).
80.   The above estimate of reduction in HIV transmission was based on a different
epidemiological model than the one used in the SAR, which projected 300,000 HIV cases
averted and a cost per DALY of US$83 (including indirect costs). The model used here
involved more complex assumptions about distribution of risk and about project impact
on behavior change and was judged to be more appropriate than the model used for the
SAR projections, especially given the poverty of data on HIV transmission in Brazil.



19
Furthermore, the model employed here used more conservative assumptions about
project impact on behavior change. The economic analysis for the ICR (and for the
follow up project) prepared by Dariush Akhavan provides a detailed description of the
model and is available in the project file.
81.   We should point out that all of these estimates are based on very incomplete data
about an epidemic that is relatively new. The course of the AIDS epidemic has been and
will be influenced by a multitude of social and biological factors that are still poorly
understood. At this point in time, any calculations of cost-benefit or effectiveness can at
best provide orders of magnitude. Optimally, HIV/AIDS control programs should strive
to collect the best information possible on cost-effectiveness of specific interventions
among specific risk groups. Such information would help set priorities and permit the
most effective allocation of scarce resources.
82.   Only one sub-project was identified which collected sufficient data on both costs
and behavior both before and after intervention. This was an NGO project to increase
condom use among a group of commercial sex workers. At varying assumptions, a high
cost-effectiveness was shown from preventing HIV infections in this group. Assuming a
prevalence of 5 percent among the clients and 25 percent among commercial sex
workers, the cost-effectiveness of the subproject would be $21 per DALY averted. This
estimate takes into account only the impact of preventing infections in the commercial
sex workers themselves. Effectiveness would be greater if one were to include the
infections prevented in clients and their partners.
83.   We should also point out that, the above cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit
analyses aside, there are several compelling arguments for government intervention to
slow the spread of HIV/AIDS. First, in countries that wish to subsidize most of the cost
of health care, AIDS will generate enormous government health care expenditures; this
alone is sufficient justification for early, effective prevention. In Brazil, the Government
subsidizes about a third of the costs of health care on average but double that share for
HIIV/AIDS patients, reflecting the high cost of treatment and the fact that most
HIIV/AIDS patients are treated in the public sector. Second, whenever a transaction
between two parties imposes negative effects, or externalities on a third party, as is the
case when a sexual encounter between two people increases the risk of HIV infection to
their other partners, public economics argues for government intervention. Third, the
provision of information about the state of the epidemic or about the effectiveness of
alternative remedies meets the economist's definition of a "public good", that is,
something that benefits society but that private entrepreneurs have insufficient incentive
to produce on their own (Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic).
84.   The Declining Severity of AIDS. As in many other countries, there is evidence
in Brazil that the severity of AIDS has declined with the introduction of the "protease
inhibitors", a new class of drugs that can dramatically reduce viral replication in persons
infected with HIV. For example, the mortality rate of patients admitted to Emilio Ribas
Hospital in Sao Paulo (a major reference center for AIDS patients) declined from 29% in
1995 to 23% in 1997. Average hospitalization time for AIDS patients at the same
hospital decreased from 38 to 20 days over the same period. Emilio Ribas Hospital also



20
reported a dramatic decline in opportunistic infections including cytomegalovirus
(CMV), neurocriptococcosis and Kaposi's Sarcoma. The Evandro Chagas Hospital in
Rio de Janeiro also witnessed a decline in AIDS hospitalizations from 201 in 1996 to 148
in 1997. Nationwide, the number of TB cases reported in HIV positive patients fell 54%
between 1996 and 1997. Consumption of ganciclovir (a drug to treat CMV) has declined
by 20%. Finally, since the introduction of protease inhibitors, the cities of Rio and Sao
Paulo, which together account for 36% of all AIDS cases in Brazil, have seen a reduction
in AIDS deaths of 35% and 21%, respectively. While this is very hopeful news, these
treatments are still experimental and their long term usefulness is as yet undetermined.
The need to maintain an aggressive HIV prevention program remains unchanged.
J. Future Operations
85.   A follow up project was approved by the Board on September 15, 1998.
Preparation of the follow up project emphasized the need to address evaluation and
personnel issues raised in this report. Significant progress was made on evaluation -
baseline data were established and the government provided assurances that it will
undertake the integration of the national program staff into the MOH.
K. Key Lessons Learned
86.   Building a Constituency for the Project. Building support for the project at the
local level before project implementation is labor intensive, especially for projects that
are broad in geographic scope. Such an effort, however, can help to accelerate start up
and promote timely implementation.
87.   NGO Participation and Effective Outreach to High Risk Groups.  The
implementation of HIV/AIDS and STD control efforts among specific high risk groups
can be most effectively carried out by societal organizations that have formed a
relationship of trust with members of certain high risk groups. The individuals being
targeted often belong to rnarginalized segments of society with which governments may
have little experience. NGOs can often bring more of the specialized knowledge needed
and often have an established credibility with the target group. This is especially true for
work with homosexuals, commercial sex workers, street people, and indigenous peoples.
88.   Greater Focus on Evaluation. Although the SAR included a long list of
monitoring and impact indicators, the project still failed to track changes in high risk
behaviors in key target populations.  An effective evaluation plan should specifically
define what survey instruments will be used, when they will be tested and applied, and by
whom.  A plan to execute these evaluation instruments should accompany the
implementation plan to help ensure that appropriate baseline data are collected in a timely
fashion.



21
89.   Appropriate Staffing of the Evaluation Unit. In order to ensure adequate
evaluation of program activities, the project management unit should maintain sufficient
qualified staff exclusively dedicated to the task of evaluation.
90.   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.  A variety of disease control interventions are
being carried out arnong a variety of targeted high risk groups. Optimally, the program
should gather the necessary pre-and post-intervention data to determine the relative cost-
effectiveness of these various interventions. This kind of analytical information would
help the program to set priorities, especially when resources are scarce.
91.   Integration of Program  Activities.    There are many opportunities for
integrating the program's various activities in prevention, surveillance, diagnosis,
treatment, training and evaluation. To provide just one example, the counseling expertise
in CTAs could be made use of in nearby day hospitals, in specialized ambulatory care
units, or by local NGOs working with specific risk groups. The NASCP should make a
greater effort to promote better and more productive integration of the various
subcomponents of the program.
92.   Procurement. More intensive supervision, by project management and by the
Bank, of the procurement process is necessary when procurement activities are contracted
out to third parties.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 3659-BR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tablel:   Sunmnary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Impact Indicators
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW. Actual)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



23
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
(V)          ("I)          (v)             (V')
Macro Policies                El            E             E l
Sector Policies               [l            El            E               0
Financial Objectives          E             E             El
Institutional Development    [m]            E             E              E
Physical Objectives           [l El
Poverty Reduction             El            E             El 
Gender Issues                 El            El            E 
Other Social Objectives       El             l            E l
Environmental Objectives      El            EE                           [El
Public Sector Management      [              l            E              [
Private Sector                E]            E             E 
Development
NGO Development               [             El            E 
B. Project Sustainability        Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
(V)                  (v)                    (v)
X~E                                   Ela



24
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
(/)                 (1)                   (1)
Identification               [                    E                    El
Preparation Assistance       [                    IZO
Appraisal                    [x]                  Dl
Supervision                   a                  m]
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
(v')        (/)          V/)
Preparation
Implementation                       n            [z           0
Covenant Compliance                                -           El
Operation (if applicable)            E                         El
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
E]          El                            El



25
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
credit Title                              Purpose:                          A rv              tatus
Preceding operations:
Loan 2061-BR               To improve the health status of Rondonia's increasing      1981      Closed
Northwest Region Integrated   population with malaria control, extension of basic services,      6/30/88
Development Progran -      training of health workers and operational research.
Health
Loan 2448-BR               To improve the Government's ability to address a variety of  1984    Closed
National Health Policy     health needs through strengthening policy formation.                  12/31/89
Studies
Loan 2447-BR               To improve the health status in five main target areas and  1984     Closed
Sao Paulo Basic Health Care  nine health districts in Greater Sao Paulo and improve the         6/30/92
cost-effectiveness of health services delivery within Greater
Sao Paulo.
Loan 2699-BR               To improve the health status of 3.6 million small farmers  1986      Closed
NE Basic Health I          and other poor peasants living in specific areas of the states        12/31/95
of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and Piaui.
Loan 2931-BR
NE Endemic Disease Control  To reduce the prevalence of three endemic diseases (Chagas  1988    Closed
disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis) in the                  6/30/96
Northeast, to levels where only epidemiological surveillance
are needed to keep these diseases under control.
Following operations:
NE Basic Health II         To strengthen basic health services in selected low-income  1989      Closed
areas of the Northeast to reinforce implementation of                12/31/97
sectoral reforms, including the decentralization of financial
resources and administrative authority within the NE states.
Health Sector Reform       To improve the delivery of care under the Unified Health   1996      Closing Date
System (SUS), which is the sole source of publicly                   12/31/00
subsidized care for the poor.
Second AIDS and STD        To reduce the incidence of HIV and STD infection and       1998      Closing Date
Control Project            expand and improve diagnosis, treatment and care of                   11/31/02
persons with HIV, AIDS and STD.
Disease Surveillance and   To irnprove and strengthen the national disease Surveillance  1998   Closing Date
Control Project            and Control System and contribute to reduce mortality and             12/31/02
morbidity resulting from communicable diseases.



26
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned                  Actual Date
Identification                       May 1992                     May 1992
Preparation                        September 1992              September 1992
Appraisal                           January 1993                 January 1993
Negotiations                        August 1993                  August 1993
Board Presentation                 November 1993               November 1993
Signing                             March 1994                   March 1994
Effectiveness                        June 1994                    June 1994
Midterm Review                     September 1996              September 1996
Project Completion                 December 1997                December 1997
Loan Closing                       December 1998                  June 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
-FY               94      95      96      :97  .98
Appraisal Estimate            17.7   35.5   35.5   35.6   35.7
Actual                       35.25   21.92   55.39   29.93   4.72
Actual as % of Estimate      199%   61.7%   156%    84%    48%
Cummulative Disbursements
60 -
5o
40
-4-Appraisal Estimate
20 -      ~                                             BActual disbursement
10 
FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98
Bank Fiscal Year



27
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated           ACtual
1IEC Campaigns Launched                       6                   7
2. Testing and Counseling Centers Implemented  125                 139
3. NGO projects                                261                 500+
4. Reference Laboratories Established          16                  27+
5. Sentinel Surveillance Sites                 80                  150
6. STD Surveillance Sites                      27                  72
7. LV/AIDS Treatment:                          100                 49
Day Hospitals                                  0                   31
Home Care                                      42                  66
Specialized Outpatient Care                    50                  40+
Casas de Apoio
Accreditation of Hospitals in HIV/AIDS treatment    0              335
8. IIV/AIDS/STD Training Centers Established
14                  84
Note: Only a selected few of the numerous indicators that appeared in the SAR are presented
here. Selecting the right indicators and appropriate targets for this project during preparation was
difficult and complicated by two factors. First , AIDS control efforts are still experimental.
Logic argues strongly for a guiding strategy that targets high risk groups, but capacity to choose
the most effective interventions (and consequently the right indicators) for different socio-
cultural, economic, or institutional contexts can only come with experience. Second, the final
shape of a national HIV/AIDS and STD control program would clearly be affected by the
ongoing evolution of a decentralizing health system in Brazil. It was therefore expected that
project activities and targets would be subject to change as implementation moved ahead in many
different states and municipalities with different needs and capacities. In most cases, original
targets were exceeded. Given the incipient nature of the AIDS control program, baseline data
was not available for rnany of the impact indicators (optimistically) defined in the SAR. The
capacity to collect much of that baseline data was being built by the project itself and is only now
becoming operational.



28
Table 6: Key Impact Indicators
1. Selected Indicators
At Start of Project            End of Project
1. Condom Sales                     70 million (1992)      217 million (1996)
2. % of males surveyed stating        25% (1993)           37% (1996)
they "always use" a condom
31.H[V prevalence among
pregnant women (20-24)
Unknown                      1.8% (1997)
4. HIV prevalence among
emergency room patients (20-24)
Unknown                      4.1% (1997)
5. HIV prevalence among Army
Conscripts
Unknown
0.5% (1L996)
Note: Given the lack of an operating HIV surveillance system in 1993, baseline data was not
available for many of the impact indicators defined in the SAR. The capacity to collect much of
that epidemiological baseline data, as well as behavioral data from special studies, was to be
built up by the project itself and is only now becoming operational. The follow up project will
employ a more simplified list of indicators and will have the benefit of an operating surveillance
system consisting of 150 sentinel surveillance sites.  Execution of pre- and post-intervention
behavioral surveys, especially for subprojects targeting high risk groups should be carried out
under AIDS II.
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project
1. AIDS and condom use in Brasilia: a telephone survey. NP-STD/AIDS and University
of Brasilia
2. Epidemiological impact of chiamydia in populations of the Brazilian Amazon Region.
Federal University of Para.
3. Risk factors for the vertical transmission of HIV- 1 - a Multicentric Study. Sao Paulo
State Health Secretariat
4. Chagas disease in HIV-positive patients. Federal University of Minas Gerais.
5. Isolation and preliminary characterization of HIV from recently seroconverted
individuals and relative subtype prevalence among intravenous drug users in Metro. Sao
Paulo. Adolfo Lutz Institute, Sao Paulo.
6. Factors associated with HIV transmission in women. Medical School - University of
Sao Paulo.



29
7. Influence of retroviral infection on morbidity and mortality of contacts of patients
with tuberculosis. Federal University of Bahia.
8. Prevalence of the association between tuberculosis and HIV infection in the
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro. Oswaldo Cruz Foundation.
9. Survey of syphilis seroprevalence in puerperal women. Federal University of Minas
Gerais.
10. Multicentric study on HIV infection and hepatitis in IVDUs. Federal University of
Bahia, Medical School.
11. Multicentric study of HIV infection and hepatitis in IVDUs. Santos Institute for
AIDS Studies and Surveys.
12. Multicentric study of HIV infection and hepatitis in IVDUs. Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation.
13. AIDS prevention in men who have sex with men: Brazilian Interdisciplinary AIDS
Association.
14. Laboratory diagnosis of opportunistic infections in immunodepressed patients.
Federal lUniversity of Rio de Janeiro.
15. Pulmonary TB and HIV: infectiveness and immunopathogenesis. Fed. Univ. of Rio
de Janeiro.
16. Risk protective factors and TB markers in HIV infected patients. Fed. Univ. of
Minas Gerais.
17. Histological and ultrarnicroscopic study of premalignant lesions of the cervix and
identification of HPV subtypes in patients with AIDS. Emilio Ribas Institute for
Infectious Diseases.
18. Impact of AZT therapy on viral load. Federal University of Bahia,
19. Prevalence of subtypes of HIV-1 in blood donors of the city of Sao Paulo. pro-
Sangue Foundation/Sao Paulo Hemocentre.
20. Validation of flow charts for syndromic approach to STD cases. NP-STD/AIDS.
21. Descriptive study on patterns of in vitro resistance of neisseria gonorrhoea NP-
STD/AIDS.
22 Habits of STD patients seeking care in 5 reference centers. NP- STD/AlDS.
23. Early diagnosis of HIV infection in children. Ribeirao Preto Medical School/USP.
24. Impact of AZT use on survival. Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.
25. Study on neuromuscular and autonomous systems in AIDS patients. Emilio Ribas
Institute.
26. Multicentric study on costs of AIDS ambulatory and hospital procedures.
Foundation Institute of Economic Research.
27. AIDS prevention for Women in Brazil. Ribeirao Preto Nursing School/ USP.
28. Behavioral intervention in different social groups in the Itajai Port Area. University
of the Itajai Valley.
29. Sexual behavior of STD patients in 5 reference centers. NP- STD/AIDS.
30. Adolescents and STD/AIDS: An intervention study with school children in Rio
Grande do Sul. Federal University of Pelotas, Medical School.
31. Behaviors, attitudes and beliefs on AIDS and sexual behavior among homosexuals
and bisexuals in Fortaleza. Federal University of Ceara.
32. Sexual behaviors and attitudes of street children. Federal University of Rio Grande
do Sul.



30
33. Rapid Diagnosis - Sex Workers. Federal University of Brasilia.
34. Rapid Diagnosis - Mining camps in 6 Amazon states. Federal University of
Brasilia.
35. Intravenous Drug Use and spread of HIV in Campinas. Corsini Center.
36. Evaluation of teachers training course. Roquete Pinto Foundation.
37. Make love with love, not AIDS. Brazilian General Workers Central/Folha de
S.Paulo.
38. Workers information on AIDS, health, sexuality, labor. Unified Workers Central.
39. Knowledge of AIDS modes of transmission: an evaluation of Army conscripts.
Ministry of the Army.
40. Learning to Live with STD/AIDS. Federal University of Minas Gerais.
41. Survey of opinions and attitudes and information level of the Brazihian population
about AIDS and its prevention. Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion and Surveys.
42. Acceptability of the female condom in social contexts. Brazilian Center for Analysis
and Planning.
43. Vulnerability profile of Brazilian Women. Independent Consultants.
44. Evaluation of managerial process of state and municipal STD/AIDS programs.
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte.
45. Evaluation of COAS -TCC in the Northeast region. Oswaldo Cruz Foundation.
46. Evaluation of performance of the TCCs, Brazil, national sample. NP- STD/AIDS.
47. Evaluation of the performance of alternative types of outpatient care. NP-
STD/AIDS.
48. Evaluation of adherence to ambulatory services for HIV/AIDS patients. Oswaldo
Cruz Foundation.
49. Evaluation of adherence to antiretroviral treatment. Federal University of Sao Paulo.
50. Sexual practices and behavior change in men who have sex with men. Rio de
Janeiro State University.
51. Evaluation of the logistics of male condom distribution and use. Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation.
52. Direct Costs of AIDS treatment in Brazil. Foudation Institute of Economic
Research.
53. Evaluation of the quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients. Center for the Control of
Immunological Disorders.
54. Baseline situation of IVDUs in harm reduction projects supported by the NP-
STD/AIDS. Federal University of Minas Gerais.
55. Sexual behavior of the Brazilian population and perceptions on HIV/AIDS.
Brazilian Center for Analysis and Planning.
56. Protocol of study of IDUs. Parana Center for Citizenship.
57. Research on drug abuse with special emphasis on HIV prevention among IVDUs in
Brazil. Santos Institute for AIDS Studies and Research.
58. Educational intervention with truck drivers in the Santos Port. Santos Ass.Res.Prev.
Educ. STD/AIDS
59. AIDS and the National Congress. Brazilian Association Against AIDS.
60. Risk behaviors arnong heterosexuals. Nucleus of Studies on AIDS Prevention.
61. Prevention of STD/AIDS in street male homosexuals. Brazilian Institute for Social
Innovation -MS.



31
62. Prevalence of syphilis, hepatitis and HIV among low-income female sex workers in
downtown Sao Paulo. Sao Paulo State STD/AIDS Program.
63. HIV incidence in a cohort of men who have sex with men - Project Rio. Oswaldo
Cruz Foundation.
64. HIV incidence in a cohort of men who have sex with men - Project Horizon. Federal
University of Minas Gerais.
65. HIV incidence in a cohort of men who have sex with men - Project Bela Vista. Sao
Paulo Institute of Health.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Local     Foreign        Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Component        Costs      Costs                   Costs   Costs
l.Prevention     40.4         53.5       93.9      43,3     76,7       120,0
2.Services       22.3         53.4        75.7     21,6      53,4      75,0
3.Institutional  21.8         20.5        42.3     21,8     25,7       47,5
Development
4.Surveillance    6.4          8.2        14.6     3,3       4,2        7,5
Sub Total       90.8        135.7       226.5    90,0      160,0     250,0
S.Contingencies J   8.9       14.5        23.4
TOTAL           99.7         150.3      250.0  [ 90,0      160,0      250,0



32
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total      Local     Foreign  Total
Source              Costs     Costs                Costs       Costs
IBRD                  9.7      150.3      160                   160.0     160.0
Domestic             90.0        0        90.0       90,0                  90.0
Contribution
TOTAL                99.7      150.3     250.0       90.0       160.0     250.0
Table 9: Cost-Effectiveness and Cost Benefit Analysis Suimmary
Costs                                      $169.7 million
Effectiveness: DALYs Saved                      353,029
Benefits: Prevented Health Costs           $255.4 million
Cost-Effectiveness                      $481/DALY Saved
Cost-Benefit (Health Costs Prevented/US$Cost)      $1.51



33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Maintain acceptable
management staff,
structure and
functions                3.05              5                Complied
Furnish to the Bank
leach year the
Consolidated Annual
Operational Plan for
subsequent year and
cary out such plans
in accordance with
acceptable timetable.    3.03              5                Complied
Cany out annual
audits of project
accounts by
independent auditors    4.Olb               I              Complied
lConduct annual and
mid-term reviews of   3.03d/3.06a
the project and          3.06b             9                Complied
prepare annual
reports
Take remedial action
after annual and mid-
term reviews for
efficient execution of
the Project              3.06c             10               Complied
Procure goods and
services on basis of
standard bidding         3
documents                3.02              5                Complied
Maintain the
Research Steering
Committee and apply
Research Committee
Regulations              3.04              5                Complied
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. =  Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from         9.    Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                  10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds     I.=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                          allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency   12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy! regulatory/institutional
6.   Environmental covenants                                          action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                                13. =  Other



34
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
stage     -  -_:_--                      FY                              Total
I__:__-_-___  ~92        93       94      95      96     97      98
Preparation     21.8   24.3    15.4                                       61.5
Appraisal &     12.8                                                      12.8
Negotiations
Supervision                      11.3     7      10.3    15     7.2       50.8
Midterm                                          6.5                      6.5
Review
TOTAL           21.8   37.1    26.7       7      16.8    15     7.3      131.6
_  ~  -, _ _, __ _ _ _                         - -  - -



35
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Through
Appraisal
Preparation    1992    4        21.18  D,A,B,M
Preparation    1993    3        18.9   D,B,M
Appraisal
Through
Board
Approval
Appraisal    1993     6         12.9   L,B,D,M,M,M
jPost         1994    2         2.0    M,M
Appraisal
Appraisal    1996    4          13.4   B,C,M,M
Supervision
Supervision 1  1994    3        11.3   B,D,M           1       1
Supervision 2  1995    4         7.0   B,B,A,K         S      HS
Supervision 3  1996    4        6.5    B,M,M,N         HS     S
Supervision 4  1996   1         1.2    F               HS     S
Supervision 5  1996   1         2.0    G               HS     S
Supervision 6  1996   1         0.6    F               HS     S
Supervision 7  1997    3        0.8    H, B,K          HS     S
Supervision 8  1997    3        0.8    H, B,K          HS      S
Supervision 9  1998    3        7.2    B,H,K           S      S
Mid-Term     1996     5                I,I,K,J,M
Review
1 =Problem Free; S=Satisfactory; HS=Highly Satisfactory.
2 A=Public Health; B=Economist; C=Lawyer; D=Consultant; E=rOperations Analyst;
F=Procurement; G=IEC; H=Population Health Spl; I=Disease Control Spl; J=Project
Spl; K=NGO Coordinator; L=Operations Officer, M-AIDS /STD Specialists,
N=Disbursement



BORROWER'S FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
I.    Project Objectives
The Loan Agreement in this matter, signed in March 1994 between the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank), stated two
general objectives: (1) to reduce the incidence and transmnission of HIV and other STDs; and (2) to
strengthen public and private institutions engaged in the prevention and control of STDs and AIDS.
Where the choice of project objectives was concerned, the process followed was an
essentially "technical one," in the sense that insufficient attention was paid to validating them
politically and socially beforehand. Also lacking was a strategy on how to conduct studies to
characterize the baseline situation with respect to the key indicators on which monitoring and
evaluation of the project was to focus. On other words, the project suffered from the lack of a
general evaluation plan.
Where the implementation of project objectives was concerned, the Ministry of Health,
through the National AIDS and STD Control Program (NASCP), issued policies, standards and
guidelines and developed a series of strategies and actions intended to ensure major results in
achieving the objectives specified in the Loan Agreement. In this endeavor, NASCP was able to
count on very broad-based institutional and social participation, by a strategic mix of entities
belonging to three levels: (1) governmental agencies, especially departments of the Ministry of
Health and other federal ministries, state Secretariats, and municipal Health Secretariats; (2) NGOs,
community associations, interest groups, labor unions, and other organs of civil society; and (3)
bilateral and multilateral international agencies active in technical cooperation.
The project achieved multiple results through its work within that broad institutional
spectrum. Where its first objective was concerned, it is essential to remember that, thanks to
broadly focused information campaigns and a wide range of related education and communication
efforts, AIDS, and in particular the risks of infection and prevention measures it entails, has become
a "social question" in Brazil today, the subject of extensive debate in civil society. After a period of
very rapid growth in AIDS, Brazil has managed to reduce the epidemic to a relatively stable level
over recent years - thanks not only to the gains in human rights where HIV and AIDS are
concerned, but also to: reliability of supplies of condoms and other preventive inputs under the
country's preventive education policy; formation of an extensive network of partnerships with
NGOs and a wide range of other community organizations; broadening of the coverage, and
upgrading of the quality, of anonymous testing and counseling services; and other miscellaneous
strategies. Evidence of this fact lies in the annual incidence figures for the three-year period 1995-
1997, which remained steady at around 12 per 100,000 inhabitants (18,000 new cases). This
improvement stemmed essentially from the drop in new cases among men who have sex with men,
as a result of the adoption of appropriate preventive measures.  On the other hand, there was a
relative increase in the number of cases among women and low-income groups, indicating a need
for more concerted outreach targeting these population groups.



2
It is also important to emphasize the successful development of a policy on
assistance and treatment for persons living with HIV and AIDS. Such measures as
establishment and diversification of an assistance network (conventional hospitals,
Specialized Ambulatory Service units, Day Hospitals, and Therapeutic Home Health Care
units), adoption by the Ministry of Health of a policy of universal access gratis to anti-
retroviral medications, and laboratory support (facilitated through the project with the World
Bank) that has allowed set up of a national network for T CD4+ and CD8 lymphocyte and
viral load testing has increased life expectancy and improved quality of life for patients, at
the same time bringing about a significant reduction in spending on conventional
hospitalizations and Day Hospitals. According to a recent study, a total of 47,332 hospital
admissions were avoided, saving an estimated US$96 million. In the state of Sao Paulo,
there was a 46% drop in the number of AIDS deaths between 1994 and 1997. A nationwide
25% decline was also observed in the consumption of medications for the treatment of
opportunistic infections, producing substantial savings in financial resources.
The following words by Health Minister Jose Serra, reported in the official
publication AIDS no Brasil: Um esfor,o conjunto Governo-Sociedade, sum up the attitude
of the Government of Brazil to the results of this first World Bank loan for the prevention
and control of AIDS and other STDs:
"Today, after four years, the Ministry of Health can be proud of the work it has
done. As part of Brazil's national health policy, control of AIDS and STDs is a goal for all
federal Health Secretariats and all severely affected municipalities, which regard it as a
priority component of their health programs. A surveillance system monitors the status of
the epidemic at the national, regional, and local levels. An integrated set of permanent
prevention mneasures is in place throughout the entire country. A fully functioning network
exists providing diagnostic and counseling services, as well as medical, hospital,
pharmaceutical, and social assistance.  A network of public laboratories provides
laboratory services to support epidemiological surveillance, preventive, and assistance
programs. Universal access to medications is guaranteed, at no charge. A solid national
human rights network now exists, founded on an invaluable partnership with non-
governmental organizations and community associations."
II.   Project Target Population
The major segments of the population targeted by AIDS Project I can be classified in
two divisions: the general population, and the following specific groups:
*  AIDS in the Workplace. Focused on workers, employers, social organizations, and class
institutions. Targets:  3,500,000 individuals and 14,000 enterprises in 27 states.
Recently created: the National Employers' HIV/AIDS Council.
*  Indigenous groups. Projects have been set up among the Tucano, Tumucumaque,
Wajapi, Krah6e, Apinaje, Tapitape and Karaja, Xavante Bakari, Guarani Kaiua,
Yanomani, and others. Targets: 160,000 members of 77 ethnic groups in 24 states
(Amazonas, Acre, Amapa, Rond6nia, Roraima, Para, Tocantins, Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara,



3
Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Pemambuco, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo,
Sergipe, Paraiba, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and
Santa Catarina).
* Truck drivers. Targets: Various transport locales and routes throughout the country.
* Children, adolescents, and young people. Targets: 516,000 adolescents, through the
Adolescent Peer Counseling Prevention Program, and, in conjunction with the Ministry
of Education, training for 143,537 teachers in the public school system.
* Men who have sex with men. This segment constitutes a more organized social group
represented by an NGO.
* Groups living in gold-field and similar prospecting areas. Targets: 32,650 prospectors
and their families in the states of Para, Rond6nia, Tocantins, and Mato Grosso.
* Landless rural workers. Targets: 24,250 squatters and campers affiliated with the
Landless Rural Workers Movement, in the states of Para, Mato Grosso, Pemambuco,
and Parana.
* Poor groups in metropolitan areas. Through a pilot project now being carried out in key
urban districts of the state of Rio de Janeiro.
* Sex workers in metropolitan areas. Through the NGO representing them.
X Prison population. Targets: 93,800 prisoners (65% of the prison population).
* STDs and AIDS in the armed forces. Targets: 800,000 young draftees per year, 70,000
recruits, and 160 officials.
* Women. Targets: Particularly poor women and pregnant women; infants exposed to
vertical transmission of HIV; health care professionals working in maternal and child
health; and managers of STD/AIDS control programs and the Mother and Child Health
Program, at the various levels of the Unified Health System (SUS).
3  IV drug users. Targets: 1,300 users, through a "harm reduction" project (i.e. needle
exchange and "safe" drug use).
* Schoolteachers. Through a special project to prevent drug use in schools. Targets:
5,715 teachers and 15,202 pupils, to act as multipliers carrying out drugs and AIDS
education in schools.
* Doctors, psychologists, occupational therapists, social workers, and monitors attending
to IV and other drug users.
* Family members of drug users. Targets: 1,200 family members.
* Professional staff of institutions engaged on drug projects. Targets: 470 staff members,
to serve as multipliers.
* Persons living with HIV/AIDS and their family members. Help for their support
networks.
* Managers and operations personnel of state and municipal medications- and condom-
distribution systems involved with AIDS Project I; health care professionals working
with HIV patients; HIV patients for whom anti-retroviral treatment is indicated; specific
groups receiving condoms.
*  Community development workers associated with PACS and PSF Programs. Targets:
62,307 community development workers, 4,853 nurses, and 1,739 doctors.
* Users of laboratory services.



4
III.   Successful Strategies
Support for behavior modification projects directed at various target groups. Different
methods were used, suited to the particular client group and/or targeted section of the
population. For instance: (a) Theoretical and practical training for multipliers in the
dissemination of infornation, utilizing pedagogic strategies in training workshops based
on expository approaches, work groups, and workshop and group dynamics; special
emphasis is placed on dissemination tools such as videos, brochures, and pamphlets
couched in direct language based on terms current in the universe of the target group.
(b) Institutional strengthening and support of organizations belonging to civil society,
with emphasis on forming social networks that provide social support for the groups
targeted and on devising alternative ways of confronting the epidemic. (c) Promotion of
access to prevention inputs, mainly by fostering demand for and habitual use of
condoms. (d) Implementation and reinforcement of measures under the IV and Other
Drug Users Hartn Reduction Project, the primary strategy of which is to train "peer
health agents" (known as redutores in Brazil), especially ex-IV and other users, to
disseminate information and distribute prevention materials.  This has resulted in
improved access to drug treatment centers, and in the forging of links between the
centers and the peer agents. (e) Production of technical and policy documents,
subsidized by organizations belonging to civil society and Unified Health System
institutions. (f) Conferences and meetings at macro-regional level, designed to expand
preventive measures at the local and regional levels by combining NGO and community
initiatives with the sectoral preventive policies of NASCP state and/or municipal liaison
offices.
*  Information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns. The initial campaigns of
this type were organized to take place on two occasions, during carnival and as part of
the events on World AIDS Day, December 1. Subsequent campaigns dealt with topics
of importance to specific social groups - women, workers, adolescents, etc. During the
course of AIDS Project I, there were 16 national campaigns and 200 campaigns per year
in participating states and municipalities.
*  Fostering demand for and promoting inputs and services to prevent HIV/AIDS and
STDs. The network of Counseling and Testing Centers (CTAs) was expanded
significantly. The key function of these centers is to guarantee the availability of
anonymous, confidential HI4V blood tests at no charge to all individuals wishing to
ascertain their HIV status. Staffed by multidisciplinary technical and support teams,
their effectiveness in prevention stems from their counseling programs. They expanded
chiefly in cities with the highest incidence of AIDS, their number increasing from 26
units in 1994 to 141 units in 1998 (including 15 in the process of being set up). Other
important factors were regular supervision of the network and the provision of technical
training for its professional staff.
*  Effective coordination of information, services, and intervention measures, which helped
strengthen the public institutions and community organizations engaged in HIV/AIDS
and STD prevention.
*  Training of multipliers in the promotion of safe sexual behavior and the prevention of
sexually transmitted diseases, with the emphasis on AIDS and on the use of drugs in
schools.



5
* Training of personnel with key roles in putting prevention measures into effect.
* Harm reduction projects targeting drug users.
*  Technical and financial support for community organizations.
*  Systematization and dissemination to all affected target groups of information dealing
specifically with human rights and AIDS.
* Organization of a National HIV/AIDS Human Rights Network, and technical and
financial support for community initiatives to promote and guarantee the human rights
of HIV carriers, persons suffering from AIDS, and their families.
* Validation of the methods used to assist STD sufferers through diagnosis and treatment.
* Provision of AZT for pregnant women and newbom infants.
* Training of members of the health and allied professions.
* Set-up and operation of systems for AIDS-medications information and supply and for
condom distribution.
* Publishing and distribution of HIV Clinical Treatment Manuals.
* Introduction of such alternative care arrangements as Specialized Ambulatory Services,
Day Hospitals, and Therapeutic Home Health Care.
* Promotion of partnerships with teaching institutions throughout the country, reference
centers for AIDS and SDT training, and schools of nursing.
* Dissemination of high-reliability methods of laboratory diagnosis of syphilis, viral load
measurement, and T (CD4+/CD8+) lymphocyte testing.
* Introduction of distance training in HIV/AIDS and blood-bank laboratory methods.
. Inter-institutional coordination between federal government entities and international
agencies, through the UJNAIDS Thematic Group on HIV/AIDS.
* Establishment of joint arrangements among the Latin America and Caribbean countries
for technical cooperation on HIV/AIDS.
  Partnership with UNDCP for action on drugs and AIDS.
IV.  Less Successful Strategies
* Intra-institutional coordination. One key weakness at the outset of the project, partially
corrected once it had been identified, was the lack of coordination among those Health
Ministry departments with program responsibilities that needed to work in conjunction
with NASCP's technical units, but also particularly with the Mother and Child Health
Program, community development workers, family health workers, etc.
* Prevention activities that emphasize the dissemination of information but without clear
strategies on behavioral change.
* Lack of baseline studies that make behavioral change measurable. There are no
systematic methods for recording the kinds of monitoring and evaluation project data
that allow identification and comparison of instances where strategies have succeeded or
failed.
* Fostering of social debate on existing legislation and its role in the promotion of human
rights.
* HIV testing for pregnant women, given the few facilities for carrying out tests of this
kind.



6
* Laboratory diagnosis of AIDS-related STDs and opportunistic infections.
* Laboratory diagnosis of AIDS-related opportunistic infections.
V.   Key Difficulties
*  High rates of staff reassignment in state and municipal government departments and
agencies, requiring repeated re-negotiation of support for AIDS Project I. These
changes produced other changes in the staff of technical teams, which in their turn
meant that new institutional links had to be forged.
*  Delays in review of the financial packages supporting agreements and projects, which
meant that original implementation schedules, training arrangements, and rates of work
progress had to be reorganized or recalculated.
*  A  general lack of familiarity with project preparation and management, which
undennined formulation of objectives and goals, definition of suitable indicators,
identification of flows, and establishment of strong supervision patterns and routines.
*  Resistance among health professionals to the introduction of new methods.
* High turnover among trained professionals staffing health service units.
* Poor quality of prenatal and birth care.
Inadequate HIV laboratory testing capacity, owing to centralization of this activity.
ILack of consultation between NGOs and state and municipal entities responsible for
coordinating AIDS/STD matters.
* Gaps in medical training which leave graduates ill-equipped to take confident advantage
of therapeutic innovations in AIDS/STD treatment.
*  Delays in designing and introducing a computerized medications and condom
distribution monitoring system.
* Problems in obtaining goods and services, owing to the slow pace of governmental
procurement procedures; and problems with suppliers subcontracting to third parties
(failure to meet deliver dates, and faulty packing of specimens and chemical reagents).
*  Difficulties in setting up RENAGONO (Gonococcus Surveillance Network), owing to
the small number of specimens forthcoming, a result of low demand for laboratory
diagnosis in urethritis cases.
*  Failure on the part of UINDP to meet certain World Bank requirements, affecting ability
to obtain reimbursement of eligible expenses.
V.    Key Lessons Learned
*  Difficulties encountered in executing the Project were mitigated as the decentralization
process advanced. Decentralized actions, all the way from the planning stage to
implementation, can forestall the problems inevitably associated with centralized
management.
*  Decentralized management models and cooperation among different geographic areas
are essential if the incidence of HIV infection in the Brazilian population is to be
successfully reduced.
*  Successful work with a varied range of population groups requires that the cultural and
economic characteristics of each be respected.



7
o Development and strengthening of partnerships between the government sector and civil
society has proved one of the major advances in combating the AIDS epidemic, in the
sense that such partnerships strengthen the effectiveness of prevention and treatment
measures.
* Essential to the sustainability of preventive actions is discussion focused on such
questions as: the role of social networks in implementing preventive actions;
institutional strengthening; and training for NGOs in the technical/managerial and
administrative/financial fields.
* Schools have an essential role to play as places of citizenship training. To this end, they
need to be properly equipped to include health matters as an integral part of the
educational process, and helped to improve their performance in this regard.
*  Support for a diverse range of experiments and interventions enhances and systematizes
knowledge on alternative interventions in this health sector. This helps in formation of a
critical mass, and in identification, of more appropriate interventions, thereby providing
a resource on which to base the formulation of policies, programs and projects likely to
be more cost-effective.
* It is essential to change the behavior of many professionals who attend patients with
STDs, by leading them to recognize how important STD prevention is in reducing the
incidence of HIV.
* In general, health professionals who work with STD patients need to be persuaded to
adopt a new perception of STDs and a new approach to the preventive measures they
call for.
* Adoption of a policy on reduction of vertical transmission.
- Enhancement of the information system on AIDS medications and condoms.
- Ensuring the availability of anti-retroviral medications is of strategic importance,
specifically with regard to reducing AIDS deaths and hospitalizations and to the use of
medications for the treatment of opportunistic infections.
o Establishment of a network to provide both conventional and alternative treatment
options.
* Critical assessment of the process followed in decentralizing the medications supply and
distribution system is essential.
* Training must be provided within an integrated health policy context founded on
strategies that all levels of responsibility have contributed to; in addition, profiles of the
professionals to be targeted for training need to be drawn up, as do procedures for their
assignment within the health field.
* Set-up and operation of a network of public laboratories throughout the country to
specialize in HIV and syphilis testing, viral load measurement, T (CD4+/CD8+)
lymphocyte testing, and testing for certain of the opportunistic infections associated with
AIDS.
* Set-up and operation of a system to monitor the quality of HIV and syphilis testing, viral
load measurement, and T (CD4+/CD8+) lymphocyte testing, based on periodic external
assessments of the quality of testing procedures in use in laboratories belonging to the
public network.
* Set-up and operation of a distance learning system (TELELAB) focused on
standardization of the procedures, tests, and techniques used throughout the public



8
laboratory network, and on promotion of strict technical criteria, quality control, am.
bio-safety concerns.
Expansion of the system of formal partnerships with United Nations agencies is
necessary, in the interests of obtaining technical and managerial support from them in
their specific areas of competence.
VII. World Bank Performance
1.   Satisfactory aspects
1.1   Task-manager support focused on efficient decision-making during project
implementation.
1.2   Bank flexibility in accepting proposals for adjustments and reallocations of resources
among Loan Agreement expenditure categories.
1.3  In general, the Bank responded rapidly and effectively to Health Ministry requests
stemming from the technical side of project operations, eliminating red tape by relying on
telephone, fax, and e-mail facilities.
1.4   Bank support mission personnel were always open to dialogue and joint effort on
technical matters, an attitude that encouraged not only exchanges of ideas on the
implementation of project components and activities but also discussion of problems and
difficulties and a concerted quest for appropriate and realistic solutions.
2.    Key difficulties
2.1   Bank support with project financial operations procedures was weak.
2.2   Despite repeated Health Ministry requests, the Bank did not assist with project
management training arrangements for Ministry personnel.
3.    Key lessons learned
3.1   The Bank team (in Brasilia and Washington) will need to provide greater support
with the management and financial aspects of AIDS Project II.
3.2   NASCP will need to exercise more stringent financial controls, monitor the physical
and financial execution of project components and activities, and assess project results and
impact more effectively if institutionalization and the sustainability of HIV/AIDS and STD
prevention and control measures are to be guaranteed.



