Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3659 BR
Loan Agreement
(AIDS and STD Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3659 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1994, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
Page  2
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means the acquired immune-deficiency syndrome, a severe life 
threatening disease which represents the late clinical stage of human infection with 
HIV (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Consolidated POA" means a plan containing the consolidation of all the 
activities to be carried out by the Borrower and the Executing Entities (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project, for any specific calendar year, as referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into by the Borrower and each of the Executing 
Entities (as hereinafter defined), other than the agencies and the departments of the 
Borrower, in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Executing Entity" means any of the Participating States (as hereinafter 
defined), of the Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined) and of other 
entities in charge of the carrying out of any portion of the Project;
(e)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(f)
"HIV" means the human immune-deficiency virus;
 
(g)
"Implementation Indicators" means the set of monitoring and impact 
indicators set forth in the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated September 9, 1993, as 
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, through 
its Minister of Health, and the Bank;
(h)
"MOH" means Ministhungarumlautrio da Sa€de, the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(i)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization;
 
(j)
"Participating Municipality" means any of the municipalities in charge of 
the carrying out of a portion of the Project, included in the list contained in the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such list may be amended from time to time 
by agreement between the Borrower, through its Minister of Health, and the Bank, and 
which complies with the criteria set forth in the MOH's Portaria No. 622, duly 
published in the Official Gazette dated June 7, 1993;
(k)
"Participating State" means any State of the Borrower in charge of the 
carrying out of a portion of the Project;
(l)
"PIU" means the unit in charge of the implementation of the PNC-DST/AIDS;
 
(m)
"PNC-DST/AIDS" means the Borrower's program for the control of AIDS and 
STDs (as hereinafter defined), under the responsibility of MOH, which includes the 
Project;
(n)
"Research Committee Regulations" means the regulations issued by the 
Borrower on June 1, 1993, through MOH's Portaria No. 588, duly published in the 
Official Gazette dated June 2, 1993;
(o)
"RL" means a reference laboratory, a laboratory appointed by the Borrower 
as reference for quality control, research and training for laboratories;
(p)
"RSC" means the research steering committee established on March 25, 
1993, through MOH's Portaria No. 348, duly published in the Official Gazette dated 
March 26, 1993;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(r)
"STD" means a sexually transmitted disease; and
Page  3
(s)
"SUS" means the single unified health system of the Borrower, established 
on September 19, 1990, through the Borrower's Law 8080, as modified from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and sixty 
million dollars ($160,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
Page  4
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.".
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOH, with the assistance of the Executing Entities, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Executing Entity to carry out its 
respective portion of the Project and, for such purposes, shall enter into Contractual 
Arrangements, which shall contain, inter alia, the obligations of the Borrower to 
transfer to any such Executing Entity the proceeds of the Loan necessary for the 
carrying out by any such Executing Entity of its portion of the Project, in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable any 
Executing Entity to perform its obligations under the Contractual Arrangements and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Contractual 
Arrangements, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of 
the Contractual Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the 
Bank shall be utilized in the procurement of goods and consultants' services (as 
applicable), in accordance with Part C of Section I and of Section II of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, respectively, as shall be required for the Project and be financed 
under the Loan.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out the activities under the Project 
during any specific calendar year, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than October 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, for comment, the draft Consolidated POA for the subsequent calendar year;
(b)
by not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank the 
Consolidated POA for the subsequent calendar year, taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon;
(c)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, such Consolidated POA, in 
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and
Page  5
(d)
by not later than March 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
an annual report, in a format and scope satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the Implementation Indicators.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of the carrying out of the research activities 
under the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the RSC and, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or fail to apply the Research Committee 
Regulations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the PIU with organization, structure, 
functions, management and staff, all satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than June 30 of each year, starting on June 30, 1994, 
excepting in 1996, review, jointly with the Bank, the progress under the Project and 
any implementation issues that may have arisen during the previous year, based on, 
inter alia,  the annual report referred to in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1996, review (mid-term review), jointly with 
the Bank, the progress in the carrying out of the Project, the performance of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement and the Contractual Arrangements, and the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on, inter alia, the Implementation 
Indicators; and
(c)
promptly after the conclusion of any of the above reviews take or cause 
to be taken all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary 
for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and cause each Executing Entity 
to maintain, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account and, where 
appropriate, financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) where 
appropriate, certified copies of such financial statements for 
such year as so audited; and (B) the reports of such audits by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Page  6
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Borrower or any Executing Entity shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the respective Contractual Arrangements; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the Executing Entities will be able to perform its obligations under the 
respective Contractual Arrangements.
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, it is 
understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall 
have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures 
incurred by the Executing Entity in question, for the portion of the Project affected 
by such event.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(b)
all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Borrower, or by an agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or given in order 
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the 
Executing Entities to perform their respective obligations pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement and the Contractual Arrangements referred to in (c) below, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given; and
(c)
Contractual Arrangements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
at least five (5) Participating States.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered in the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(b)
that the Contractual Arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) above 
have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Page  7
Borrower and the respective Executing Entity and are legally binding upon the Borrower 
and the respective Executing Entities in accordance with their terms; and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals referred to in Section 
6.01 (b) above have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date June 14, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministrio da Fazenda - PGFN
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P", 8 andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MEFP Brasilia
61-1506 MFAZ-BR
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Oramento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministrios, Bloco "K", 5« andar
70040-906 Brasòlia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
Ministerio da Saude
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "G", sobreloja
70058-901 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-3039
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasòlia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Edgard Lincoln de Proenoa Rosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 25,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(2) Laboratory
    supplies
    (a)  procured             56,400,000        100% of foreign
         outside the                            expenditures
         territory of
         the Borrower
    (b)  procured             16,200,000        local expenditures
         locally                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                made on or before
                                                June 30, 1997:
                                                100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $12,700,000; and
                                                50% with respect
                                                to the remaining
                                                amount
(3) Condoms
    (a)  procured              8,800,000        100% of foreign
         outside the                            expenditures
         territory of
         the Borrower
    (b)  procured              2,000,000        local expenditures
Page  9
         locally                                made on or before
                                                June 30, 1997:
                                                100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $1,600,000; and
                                                50% with respect to
                                                the remaining amount
(4) Drugs
    (a)  procured              1,000,000        100% of foreign
         outside the                            expenditures
         territory of
         the Borrower
    (b)  procured             11,000,000        local expenditures
         locally                                made on or before
                                                June 30, 1997:
                                                100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $9,300,000; and
                                                50% with respect to
                                                the remaining amount
(5)   Instructional            4,200,000        local expendi-
      materials                                 tures made on or
                                                before June 30,
                                                1997: 100% up to
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount equivalent
                                                to $3,140,000;
                                                and 50% with
                                                respect to the
                                                remaining amount
(6)   Consultants' services    7,800,000        100%
      (excluding training),
      research and Project
      management
(7)   Training                17,200,000        100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $12,600,000; 50%
                                                up to an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $16,200,000; and
                                                25% with respect
                                                to the remaining
                                                amount
                                                Amount of the
(8) Unallocated               10,000,000
       TOTAL                  160,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Project management" means the contracting of managers and 
technicians for the carrying out of the Project, on short-term contracts.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$16,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after a date one year prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments made by any Executing Entity, other than the Participating 
States referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, unless the Borrower has 
entered into Contractual Arrangements with such Executing Entity and has furnished to 
the Bank an opinion (or opinions), satisfactory to the Bank, showing that any such 
Contractual Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the respective Executing Entity and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the respective Executing Entity in accordance 
with its terms;
(c)
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments made for expenditures not 
included in a Consolidated POA, as referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above, relating to research, unless the respective activity has been 
approved by the RSC.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the PNC-DST/AIDS in order to reduce 
the incidence and transmission of HIV and STDs and to strengthen the capacity of 
public and private institutions responsible for STDs and HIV/AIDS' control in the 
territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Prevention
 
Carrying out of activities related to the prevention of HIV, AIDS and STD 
incidence and transmission, including, inter alia, by:
(i)
implementing information, education and communication programs 
particularly aimed at high risk groups;
(ii)
expanding medical staff capacity and sites for diagnosing HIV, 
AIDS and STDs; and
(iii)
strengthening public sector capacity and capability in counseling 
and testing, in order to reduce the risk of transmission of such 
virus and diseases.
Part B:
Treatment Services
 
Provision of treatment services including, inter alia: 
(i)
the establishment of systems for identifying and treating STDs;
 
(ii)
the integration of HIV and AIDS prevention and medical services 
with long-term counseling; and
(iii)
the establishment of systems to develop the provision of more cost 
effective services for the treatment of HIV and AIDS.
Part C:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening the institutional capacity to control HIV, AIDS and STDs, 
including, inter alia:
(i)
the provision of training for health workers in service delivery, 
quality control and monitoring, laboratory testing and counseling, 
and treatment, across the SUS;
Page  11
(ii)
the upgrading of RLs to a standard that meets accreditation 
requirements to support HIV, AIDS and STDs testing; and
(iii)
the provision of technical assistance.
 
Part D:
Surveillance, Research and Evaluation
 
Carrying out of surveillance, research and evaluation activities, including, 
inter alia:
(i)
an epidemiological surveillance, including sentinel surveillance;
 
(ii)
a program to evaluate the activities carried out under the 
Project; and
(iii)
studies related to the activities under the Project, including 
epidemiological analysis and projections, costs and cost 
effectiveness of the activities carried out under the Project, and 
the impact of HIV and AIDS on the economy of the Borrower.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Participating Municipalities
      Rio de Janeiro (RJ)
      Santos (SP)
      Belem (PA)
      Campinas (SP)
      S§o Jose do Rio Preto (SP)
      S§o Vicente (SP)
      Guaruja (SP)
      Itajai (SC)
      Sorocaba (SP)
      Guarulhos (SP)
      Belo Horizonte (MG)
      S§o Paulo (SP)
      Niteroi (RJ)
      Porto Alegre (RS)
      Osasco (SP)
      Campo Grande (MS)
      Nova Iguau (RJ)
      S§o Bernardo do Campo (SP)
      Salvador (BA)
      Ribeir o Preto (SP)
      Recife (PE)
      Juiz de Fora (MG)
      Bauru (SP)
      Vitoria (ES)
      Jo o Pessoa (PB)
      Petropolis (RJ)
      S o Jose dos Campos (SP)
      Fortaleza (CE)
      Goiania (GO)
      Taubate (SP)
      Piracicaba (SP)
      Manaus (AM)
      Curitiba (PR)
      S§o Luis (MA)
      Santo Andre (SP)
      Jundiai (SP)
      Natal (RN)
      Presidente Prudente (SP)
      Florianopolis (SC)
      Londrina (PR)
      Cuiaba (MT)
SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1999
through November 15, 2008
8,000,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
Page  13
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid 
evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the use of 
its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for the acquisition of equipment and 
laboratory supplies shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components
manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from Group A after adding:
(a)
to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B bid an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import 
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods 
offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(b)
to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in 
each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties 
and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if 
they originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which 
enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated 
bid price of such goods. If, as result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the 
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from 
group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  14
1.
Laboratory supplies up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $42,400,000, condoms 
and drugs may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a 
list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Equipment and laboratory supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000 for 
equipment and $7,000,000 for laboratory supplies, and instructional materials may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under arts A and C.1 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Executing Entities in the carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall cause the Executing Entities to employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the  "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" (the Consultant Guidelines) published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank for 
the use of its borrowers, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Other
 
Page  15
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "Customs duties and 
other imports taxes" includes the FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  16
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
