DPocut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Repat No. 5760
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO: INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (LOAN 1053-ME)
June 28, 1985
Operations Evaluation Department
Tis doouaemt ba a ruesdctd durlbtdes and mmy be ad by ncpIents aly la the pezfonuace Of
thir oWn  dales It actate my t ehderwie be discod witht World Dak xuhoczten



ABBREVIATIONS
CISSA    -  Building and Engineering Commission of the Secretariate of
Health/Comision Constructora e Ingenieria de la Secretaria
de Salubridad y Asistencia
CAPFCE   -  Administrative Committee of the Federal School Construction
Program/Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de
Construccion de Escuelas
CFE      -  Federal Electricity Commission/Comision Federal de
Electricidad
CONASUPO -  National Company for Popular Subsistence
FAO/CP   -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
INIA     -  National Institute of Agricultural Research/Instituto
.Nacional de Investigaciones Agricolas
NAFINSA  -  Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PIDER    -  Investment Program for Rural Development/Programa de
Inversion para el Desarrollo Rural
PLAMEPA  -  Land Improvement Plan/Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario
PLANPA   -  Papaloapan Plan/Plan Papaloapan
SARH     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources/Secretaria
de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SHCP     -  Ministry of Finance/Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =   Mex$150.00
Mex$1.00   =   USs0.015
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 =   10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.20 pounds
I liter (1)                        0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = I metric ton (MT)       0.98 long ton
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOI OMFCUL u ONLY
PROECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO:  INTEGRD RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
YAPALOAPAN BASIN (Loan 1053-MK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ..............................................e.eeee@eee.   i
Basic Data Sheet ...........L...oeg**................e..e............  ii
Highlights ............                       ............                iLI
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMRANDUM
Io SUIQARY  I........      .........................c........*    1
Background      .........................................seseges......e .    1
The Project  .............. eesge.g.geeegeeeggsgeee.......        1
Project Implementation .......  e.... g..............    2
Project Impact   .,ee.ee..eg.e.e..............  ..............    4
II.  MAIN FINDINGS *...............eegeeggegggeegegee.                 5
Project Design  ..g.eesees..egeesg.e.ggesee*ee@e          eee.........  6
Project Organization and Interagency Coordination .... .....    8
Rate of Return Calculation ....eesge .........  see............   10
Comments from the Borrower ..c ..........        ...........ge.......   13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.  Introduction ......g.e.. gg..... e.eeeeseee..e    21
II.  Project Formelation      ...............................   21
III.  Implementation  ....       ....       ...... ..................   23
IV. Economic and Agricultural Impact                  .               30
V.  Institutional Performace  .... eec s e......... ..e              31
VI.  Bank Performance ...........egeee....ecseseesececec   31
VII.  Conclusions and Recommdations ......egeeee.e....e....g    32
Annexes
Maps: IBRD Nos. 11078
11001
their ofticil datie t1s co1ut my no: otow  be _ckmd witout WWld U  _a



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO: INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (LOAN 1053-ME)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Integrated Rural Development
Project Papaloapan Basin in Mexico, for which Loan 1053-ME, in the amount of
US$50.0 million, was approved in October 1974 and closed on December 1982,
after cancellation of US$24.0 million.
The audit report consists of a project performance audit memorandum
(PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project
Completion Report (PCR) dated April 23, 1984. The PCR was prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office following a country visit in
July 1983 and based upon a completion report prepared by the Pa-,loapan Comr
mission, the project executing agency. The PPAM is based on a review of the
Appraisal Report (No. 527-ME) dated  September 23, 1974, the President's
Report dated October 16, 1974, the Loan Agreement dated November 15, 1974,
and the PCR; correspondence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on
project issues as contained in relevant Bank files have been consulted, and
Bank staff associated with the project have been interviewed.
An OED mission visited Mexico in January 1985.  Discussions were
held with officials of the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(SARH), the Secretariat of Finances, NAFINSA, the government-authorized
channel for foreign loans, and the Papaloapan Commission. A field trip to
visit the project area and the participating farmers was undertaken and the
information obtained during the mission was used to test the validity of the
conclusions of the PCR.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the project's
salient features, and the PPAM generally agrees with the conclusions.  In
addition to summarizing the project's objectives and results, the PPAM
expands upon some of the project's most important issues: the complexity of
the design, insufficient preparation and the institutional problems because
of their importance to this as well as to other integrated rural development
projects.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on April 15, 1985 for
their comment.   Those received from the Ministry of Finance prepared with
other cooperating agencies concerned, are attached as Annex I of the PPAM.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Mexico and
the project staff met during the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.



nmmfpaouuc   f   Nal uic DA1A
NviW   1113RAM  MR wig. ,h wnuwr wjr rAggLOAPa  uaszu
(tam*3 1053-I1)
laic DATA-Mm
KU narUCY DATA
Appraia                      Actual or               Actual of I of
Clct_mto                 rosiaesi Actu".l           Ausralel  _cl.ts
Project Costs CMSS mlI..) 1-                    128.5                        69.96                        51
L.ose Aomat                                      50.0                        26.0 /b                      52
DOte Nord Approval                                                          10i2 ,7'
ont t ffectivemwe                                                           01/27175
oncr Physteil Congnats Comleced                12/31179                     06/2093-
roprtis  thbe  coepleted C)                     -                          70
Closing Date                                   06/30160 o230132
Uconowic late of ltbe  (ZC)                       65                         20
Fin  del Rate of NAture CZ)                    26-100
mmber of Drect kueficLarias IC                 974e700                      564.350                       Ss
Smber of Credit 8oeetLclarie                      nU..                       25.00                      na.&.
CUMLATIVE DISUUESIIET
FY75   Ff76    P77    W7         79    13    FMl   Fz    FM
Apraisal o" tlat. (USS .ll11.n)                        0     5.76    14.26   24.93   37.06   50.0       -
icvised EItsice (USS milLion) Id                       0      0       3.10    4.50    6.50   1Z.90   17.00   23J0   29.00
Act-al (CS millon)                                     0      0       3.10    4.50    6.52   12.77   15.39   23.85   28.00
Actual an  of revl_ad *otim_e                          0      0       100     100     100     9        Los    1DO      90
ODte otf nal DiJbnrseeet:  October 4. 1963
Priencpal repald to Septenbr 15, 1983 - DSS3.1 Jilloe
MISSIOII DATA
Kontbh     go. of     Steffdays   Speciel.itSoms   Ferfosmce                 Type of
1lalion                 Tear      Fereons    to Fild    epresented /a       Rating  If  Trend        Problem tb
Identificatlon            04/72         3          84           b.e.i
Preperacion               06173         2          68           e.g.
Appraisal                 11/73         5         165           a.c.d.e.8
Supervision   1           02/75         2          2D           *.h               1           2            -
Supervlsion  11           07/75         3          39           d.*.g             2           2          I.T
Supervision III           02/76         3          36           a.0.f             2           2          F.T
Supervlison  IV           09176         2          20           d.f               Z           2           F.M
Supervsion   V   /i       02/77         1           8           f                n.S.        n.e.        n_.
Supervialon   I           03/77         2          26           *f                2           2          F.1
Supervision  VI1 Li       09/77         2           a           d.r               2           1            11
Superwision  VIII         07/75         3          33           d.e.f             2           3          F.P."
Supervtiion  IX  tk       06/79         2           6           b.f              n.&.        n.S.        *a.m
Supervision  X   7k       09179         1           3           f                n.S.        nU..        n.&.
Supervision  Xl           12/79         Z          20           f.g               2           1           N,
Superviion  XII           06/80         3          27           d.f.,             2           1            M
SupervIsion  XIII /1      07/60         1           9                            a . .       n.S.        *.e.
Supervision  XIV          02/81         I          17           g                 2           I          N.P
Supervision  XV          1I/61          1           6           g                 3           2          1.P.0
Supervician  XVI          07/82         1          11           g                 3           2          F.* P
CoeplecLou                07/83         1          10
TOTAL (SPY1)                                 622
OTHER P10ECT DATA
Borrower                              NAIINSA (!Icional Finencira. S.A.)
Eaecuting Agency                      Papalospan CoiniAaon/Go.islan del ftp.l.apen
Sam of Currency (abbreviatio)         Mexican Peso 00S
Currency Exchange Reese
Appraisal Year Average              USS1.00 - !$xS12.5
Interv r ng Years Averag            9S51.00 - MsgS19.5
Coeplecion Yer Average              tl#Sl.O  - NzS53.0
FollOW-on Projec                      lone
a   The final project coat wa. chaged on the basis of a Presndantial  _ _nrandu, subi tted to ctb  Ward for aprowal on a
no objectlon bas.
/a   USS24.0 million were cancelled ac Borower's requet.
tc   Aggregate ninbers *ae sthwn in Table 3.1.
7d   After cancellation of USS21.0 IOillon (Supervision Report dated August 10. 1982).
1f   a - gronneist; b - agricultura econolist; c - credit specilist; d - agriculturit; a - .conadst: t - civil engnseor:
g - Irrigtion engineer; b - financial analyst; I - loan officer.
If  I - problem free or stnor problem; 2   sodera-e problem; and 3 - major problem.
1i  I - Siwrowing; 2 - satioeary: and  - decerioratins.
/h   F - Fliancial; M - Manaderial: T *- snticel. P - PlltSical: and 0 * Other.
71£  Combined with SPY of Loan 1110-4E and post-appraisal of PFtI 1I Projecc.
f   CoebiSnd with appraisal of Tropcs I Agriculture Oevelopmnc Project.
fk   Follow-np  iaslon.
7i  Partial  alumina on one  coponsnc (CPaplospun  asin  Study).



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO: INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (LOAN 1053-ME)
HIGHLIGHTS
This was the Bank Group's eleventh loan to Mexico for the
agricultural sector and  the first for rural development.   The project
objectives were to expand food production, raise incomes and improve the
quality of life of about one million people in the Papaloapan River Basin,
covering about 46,517 km2 and one of the most underdeveloped regions of the
country.
The project was conceptually a new departure for the Bank in Mexico
and a product of the philosophy on agricultural development advocated by the
Bank's President in his Nairobi speech in September 1973. The Bank loan, to
be disbursed over five years, was to help finance small irrigation works,
support services for rainfed agriculture, marketing facilities, feeder roads,
potable water, sewerage, electricity, primary schools, health facilities and
community centers. The concept of integrated development was to be used for
the selection and siting of the productive, production-support and social
infrastructure components of the project.   The Papaloapan Commission, an
agency created in 1947 within the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARE), was to carry out the project with the assistance of eight
specialized government agencies.
Project implementation was delayed by insufficient budgetary
allocations, limited capacity within the Commission for the preparation of
final designs and bidding documents, lack and poor performance of contractors
in the remote project area, and declining government support during the first
years of project implementation. At completion, three years behind schedule,
only about half of the original project components were implemented and 48%
of the Bank loan was cancelled.
Although the project was not completed by the closing date, project
objectives of increasing food production and improving living conditions in
the Papaloapan Basin have been partly achieved.
Despite the reduction of the project scope, the productive and
production-support components have been successful, resulting in significant
increases in yields, cropped areas and agricultural production both in
irrigated and rainfed areas.   This favorable outcome is mostly due to
the suitability of technical packages and efficiency of extension services.
The social infrastructure program, which benefitted about 560,000 people, was
adversely affected by uneven quality of construction, lack of integration
with productive components, and poor interagency cooperation.   Because of



- iv -
personnel and budget shortages,  lIne agencies have difficulty staffing,
equipping, operating and maintaining the project facilities that they take
over at project completion (PPAN, paras. 27-28). The project ERR, excluding
the cost of social infrastructure, is now estimated at about 20Z (65Z at
appraisal), mostly because of the reduced scope of the irrigation component.
The sustainability of project benefits is highly dependent on future
institutional arrangements and maintenance of project works following
dismantling of the Papaloapan Commission in 1985.
The project illustrates the difficulties encountered in a number of
BSank-assisted rural development projects, due to the complexity of the
design, insufficient preparation and poor interagency coordination.
The following points may be of particular interest:
-    although the project was designed as a pilot project, the Bank's
and Government's pressure for quick action and a more ambitious
project resulted in insufficient project preparation (PPAM, paras.
18-25);
-    the irtegrated approach proved impossible on such a large project
area and was further undermined by the strict economic criteria
designed for the selection and siting of the social infrastructure
(PPAM, paras. 23-24);
-    although the project authority performed relatively well given the
difficulty and size of the project, the handing over problems at
project completion show that the project organization was probably
not the most adequate for executing a multicomponent project of
this nature (PPAM, paras. 28-30);
-    different Bank criteria  for calculating ERRs at appraisal and
completion of rural development projects (PPAM, paras. 31-34);
-    a special revolving fund to accelerate project implementation and
disbursements is desirable in projects of this nature (PCR, para.
7.09); and
-    strong emphasis should be placed on monitoring and evaluation at
the very outset of project execution and special provision should
be  made  to  monitor  the  quality  of  public  services  in
multi-component projects (PCR, paras. 6.02 and 7.05).



- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
MEXICO: INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (LOAN 1053-ME)
I. SUMMARY
Background
1.        From the mid-1950s to 1972, Mexico was among the few countries in
the developing world to combine a sustained growth rate of 6Z to 7X per annum
with monetary and balance of payments stability. Agriculture's share of GDP,
however, had fallen from about 23% in 1950 to 11% in 1973.  In 1972, the
agricultural sector still supplied almost all of Mexico's domestic food
requirements and about 50%  of the country's merchandise export earnings.
Nevertheless, the problem of the sector was its seeming inability to keep
pace with the growth of demand for agricultural products.
2.        Maldistribution of income was anotner serious problem facing rural
areas of Mexico.  Of the approximately 3.9 million rural families, it was
estimated that about 65% were poor. Mounting social pressure in the country-
side and the disappointing production performance in recent years were
instrumental in causing the Government to revamp its agricultural development
strategy.  Because of the limited opportunities for absorbing new workers in
the non-rural sectors, Increasing attention was being focused on the employ-
ment creation potential within rural areas.  The Government was trying to
evolve a strategy for helping rural areas through a mix of investments in
productive elements, production-supporting components and social infrastruc-
ture.   Micro-regions were identified as poverty pockets throughout the
country. The Papaloapan Basin, one of the most underdeveloped regions in
Mexico, was selected as a priority area for applying the Government's new
strategy of integrated rural development.
3.        The Papaloapan Basin, located southeast of Mexico City, covers an
area of 46,517 km2 (see map).  Three States:  Puebla, Vera Cruz and Oaxacs
are partly included in the project area. The Lower Basin lies at or below
100 m elevation, has an average rainfall between 1,300 and 3,000 mm and
covers about 45% of the Basin on undulating lands of the coastal plain. The
Lower Basin contains the largest blocks of the best lands with the highest
potential for agricultural development. The Upper Basin covers the remaining
55Z of the area and consists primarily of mountains peaking at 3,000 m eleva-
tion with some productive valleys. The Upper Basin is temperate and semi-
arid, with a subsistence type of agriculture based on corn.
The Project
4.        The project was the eleventh out of 28 Bank loans to Mexico for the
agricultural sector and the first for integrated rural development. The ten
previous loans had gone to assist Mexican agriculture in three main areas:



irrigation, livestock and agricultural credit. The project objectives were
to expand food production, raise the income level and improve the quality of
life of about 1 million people living in the Papaloapan Basin.
5.        As approved in October 1974, the project included:
(a) directly productive components: construction and/or rehabilitation
and agricultural develupment of 3 irrigation schemes covering about
24,500 ha, and development of rainfed agriculture on about
100,000 ha;
(b)  production-support components:   establishment of 3 experimental
farms, construction of 1,340 km of rural roads and of 12 marketing
facilities; and
(c) social infrastructure components: construction of 260 water supply
facilities, 12 sewerage systems, 106 electricity supply systems,
185 medical centers, 1,185 schools and 141 community centers.
6.        The concept of integrated rural development was to be used for the
selection of feeder roads and rural infrastructure to be constructed under
the project. The location of the road program was to be dictated by that of
the agricultural development program, while for social infrastructure prio-
rity would be given to areas of the Basin where directly productive com-
ponents were to be developed.  In addition, economic selection criteria for
roads would yield at least a 10% return on investments.   Also for economic
considerations a maximum investment cost per capita was determined for the
social infrastructure components, which were to be concentrated on villages
between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants; beneficiaries were expected to pay a part
of the investment cost (14% to 34% according to category of investments) and
annual charges sufficient to cover at least operation and maintenance of the
facilities.
7.        The primary executing agency was to be the Papaloapan Commission,
created in 1947 within the Secretaria de Recursos Ridraulicos (SRH) to plan,
design, and construct all types of public works in the Papaloapan Basin. The
Commission would carry out the project with the assistance of other govern-
ment agencies: the Secretariat of Public Works (SOP) for roads, the Federal
Power Commission (CFE) for village electrification, the Secretariats of
Education and Health for educational and medical facilities, SRH for irriga-
tion, water supply and sewerage systems, CONASUPO for marketing facilities,
and the FONDO for agricultural credit.
8.        Total project costs estimated at appraisal were US$138.5 million.
The Bank loan of US$50 million was expected to be disbursed over five years.
The project ERR was estimated at 26% when all components were charged to
the project, and at 65% if social infrastructure components were excluded.
Project Implementation
9.        Project implementation was delayed by insufficient budgetary allo-
cation to the Papaloapan Commission (mostly due to increasing inflation and
government financial problems), lengthy preparation of final design for the



irrigation and road components, poor cooperation of line agencies, limited
capacity within the Papaloapan Commission for the preparation of a large
number of bidding documents and the lack of qualified and well equipped con-
tractors in the project area.  Project progress was also adversely affected
by the lack of interest of the Commission's first manager, allocation of
funds to non-project works, and declining government support during the first
years of the implementation period.
10.       In 1977, project implementation was two years behind schedule and
the Papaloapan Commission requested the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Hydraulic Resources (SARH) to consider three alternatives: (i) termination of
the project; (ii) reduction in scope; or (iii) extension of the implementa-
tion period.  SARH, however, turned down the Commission's request and con-
tinued expressing its interest in completing project investments.
11.       Tn 1979, project execution accelerated as a result of an improve-
ment in Mexico's financial situation, the appointment of a new and competent
manager of the Commission and changes in Bank procurement procedures to
reflect the conditions prevailing in the project area.  However, because of
project start-up delays and implementation difficulties, the project scope
was   reduced,   and   48%   of   the   Bank   loan   (US$12.0  million   in
February 1981, and USO9.0 million in August 1982) was cancelled. At comple-
tion, three years behind schedule, only about half of the original project
components were implemented.   Total project cost was about US$70.0 million
(51% of appraisal estimate).
12.       Actual achievements compared with estimated project targets vary
from one component to another:
(a) out of a target of 24,500 ha in three irrigation districts, about
17,450 ha (71%) were actually rehabilitated and/or constructed; in
the first district, Esperanza y Palmar de Bravo, only 7 out of 40
tubewells were equipped at completion and 772 ha were irrigated,
compared with 2,400 ha estimated at appraisal;l/ in Rio Salado,
about 1,908 ha out of 6,100 ha were rehabilitated; in the Rio
Blanco area, 13,000 ha out of 16,000 ha were equipped for irriga-
tion at project completion; and three small-scale irrigation
schemes, covering 1,700 ha, were completed.
(b) for rainfed agriculture, provision of technical assistance to
farmers exceeded apraisal targets (100,000 ha), covering about
130,000 ha/year during project execution with a peak of about
200,000 ha in the 1978-1980 period.
1/   The project was to construct and equip 40 tubewells, and provide a dis-
tribution system on 2,400 ha.   Soon after project appraisal it became
apparent that 20 tubewells had already been drilled under IDB financing
and that topographic and soil conditions required sprinkler irrigation
instead of gravity. Water demand for urban development and existing wa-
ter rights also contributed to the reduction in scope of this component.



(c) for rural roads, the appraisal target of 1,340 km was only partly
(452) achieved; 58 roads totalling 601 km and serving about
72,000 ha have been constructed;
(d) six out of twelve storage facilities were built but none have been
used efficiently because of limited demand for them;
(e) about 5O0 of the planned water supply systems, 80X of the sewerage
component and 120Z of the electricity supply systems were imple-
mented;
(f) only 49 (26Z) health centers, 668 (562) educational facilities, and
23 (16%) community centers were built;
(g) although not planned at appraisal, a study of the Papaloapan Basin
was incorporated in the project in 1981 at the request of the
Government.  The study consisted of a socio-economic diagnosis of
the Basin, basic data collection, topographic maps, soil survey,
hydrology, land tenure and land use.2/
Project Impact
13.       On the basis of data provided by the Papaloapan Commission, the
directly productive components of the project have been successful, despite
the reduction of the project scope, and resulted in significant increases in
yields, cropped areas and agricultural production both in irrigated and
rainfed areas.  In the Rio Blanco and the Rio Salado irrigated areas the
existing Government Land Improvement Plan (PLAMEPA) successfully provided
extension service to farmers, resulting in introduction of double-cropping
and crop diversification. The rainfed area was adversely affected by drought
in 1980 and 1981. However, yields of matze, the main crop in the Papaloapan
Basin, increased by 37% to 130%, according to the sub-zones of the project
area from 1974 to 1982;  this favorable outcome is mostly due to the suita-
bility of technical packages proposed to farmers and the application of
extension techniques previously developed in connection with PLAN PUEBLA3/
and successfully tested for two years in the Basin.  The sustainability of
the production increase depends, however, on the availability of agricultural
credit, which has been scarce for the past two years due to Government's
financial difficulties, resulting in a decrease in cropped area in rainfed
conditions.
2/ The Government points out that (i) the major reason for the project's
poor achievements was the insufficient budgetary allocation in 1976 and
(ii) despite lower project costs (512 of appraisal estimates) the number
of beneficiaries amounted to 58Z of appraisal projections.
3/   The Puebla Project,  started in 1967, aimed at the provision of new
technical packages for smallholders, based on local adaptive research,
extension services, credit and marketing facilities.



- 5 -
14.       The road program significantly improved com-inications to previous-
ly isolated areas. The social infrastructure program contributed to improv-
ing the living conditions of about 560,000 people; it was adversely affected,
however, by incomplete investments, uneven quality of construction, and
difficulty for the respective Secretariats to operate and maintain the
schools and medical centers (para. 27).  In addition, the concept of inte-
grated rural development has been far from respected. The selection criteria
for roads and social infrastructure have not been fully adhered to, or proved
unrealistic.  The construction of schools, health centers and water supply,
sewerage and electrification systems has not been integr¶ted with directly
productive components, as planned at appraisal (paras. 23-24).
15.       The project ERR excluding the cost of social infrastructure is now
estimated at about 20%.   Although the project ERR is satisfactory, it is
lower than estimated at appraisal (65%) mostly due to the reduced scope of
the irrigation component and the lower incremental production in rainfed con-
dition in 1980 and 1981. Although the project was not completed by the clos-
ing date, project objectives of increasing food production and improving liv-
ing conditions in the Papaloapan Basin have been partly achieved. The sus-
tainability of project benefits is highly dependent on future institutional
arrangements since, as for other regional commissions in Mexico, the Papaloa-
pan Commission is being dismantled in 1985; its activities are expected to be
taken over by different line agencies and coordinated in each State (Puebla,
Vera Cruz and Oaxaca) by state authorities.4/
II. MAIN FINDINGS
16.       The project was typically a product of the changing philosophy on
agricultural development advocated by the Bank's President in his Nairobi
speech on September 1973.   The project was designed  according  to  Bank
guidelines for new style' projects which (i) -benefit directly large numbers
of rural poor; (ii) take a comprehensive approach to small-scale agriculture
and way include components that are indirectly as well as directly
productive; and (iii) have a sufficiently low cost per beneficiary so that
they may be extended or replicated over broader areas.5/
17.       Although the productive components of the project were successful,
the technical packages proved adequate and the extension services were
effective,  a  significant  accomplishment,  the  project  illustrates  the
difficulties encountered in a number of Bank-assisted integrated rural
development projects.   As for many projects cf this nature, most of the
4/   OPS staff comments that (i) as yields in the project area in general
levelled off and in some cases declined after 1977, the project ERR
appears somewhat overestimated, and (ii) some late project expenditures
in agricultural extension might well not be justified by the resulting
benefits.
5/   Guidelines  incorporated  in   Rural  Development  Seccor  Policy  Paper,
February 1975".



- 6 -
problems were related to the complexity of the design, insufficient
prenaration and poor interagency coordination. In addition, the question as
to dhether the Papaloapan Commission was the right instrument for executing a
project of this kind remains open. Finally, the project raises the issue of
the Bank criteria for calculating rates of return of integrated rural
development projects.
Project Design
18.       The PCR correctly points out that while the project objectives were
sound, the project was too large and too complex.   When the project, the
first Bank-assisted integrated rural development program in Mexico, was
approved in 1974, the Board expressed its concern that the project scope and
size (a dozen components spread over 46,500 km) were not commensurate with
the pioneering nature of the project.   The story of the project largely
reflects the Board's apprehension. The project design proved overoptimistic
in terms of area size, number of components and implementation schedule. The
task of carrying out a large project in a remote area, with numerous
components needing integration and strong management cooperating with so many
agencies, proved simply impossible. Only about half of project targets were
achieved, although the project closing date was delayed by three years.
19.       While some issues, such as insufficient budgetary allocations and
declining government interest, could not be anticipated at appraisal, most of
the problems encountered during project implementation reflect the Bank's
underestimation of the difficulties common to a number of integrated rural
development projects.   A few examples are worth mentioning:   the problem
related to the preparation of final and bidding documents for an excessively
large numb)er of small contracts was definitely minimized at appraisal; the
lack of qualified contractors for executing small and scattered works in a
remote area was not adequately appreciated; the difficulty for the Commission
to cooperate with a large number of government agencies was not anticipated;
finally it was not expected that weather conditions would limit the
construction season to about six months a year.
20.       One of the striking features of the project was that it was
prepared in 1972-73 by the Government, FAO/CP (50 staff-days) and the Bank
(152 staff-days) as a pilot project.   The proposed strategy anticipated
starting on a small scale and expanding into new areas on the basis of
experience gained.   The project area was  to be  limited  to four zones
totalling 6,879 km2, with a population of about 200,000 in the Upper Basin.
Productive, production-support and social infrastructure components were to
be concentrated, in an integrated manner, within these four zones.  Total
costs of the project, which would be phased over four years, were estimated
at US$26.0 million.
21.       The appraisal mission completely changed the project design in
November 1973, by extending the project area to the entire Papaloapan River
Basin (about 7 times larger than the initially proposed area) and increasing
project costs by 425Z to US$111.0 million (and later to US$138.5 million).
According to the Issues Paper of January 1974, the project, as prepared, was
not really the project desired by the Hexican authorities. The rationale for



changing the project design was "to increase the productive components by
including other lands excluded from the initial project by arbitrary boundary
lines... and to include large numbers of rural villages, now lacking basic
services, which otherwise would be excluded from the potential benefits of
the infrastructure components." The Decision Meeting generally supported the
recomendation of the appraisal mission to expand the project scope but
raised doubts on some components, mostly irrigation. A post-appraisal took
place in August 1974 and fully endorsed the recommendations of the appraisal
mission.
22.       In retrospect, the Bank's and Government's pressure to have a more
ambitious project than was earlier enviaaged had mixed results on the project
outcome.   Ihe positive effect was that most of the project benefits were
obtained in the Lower Basin,  the region with the best potential.   Both
irrigated and rainfed agriculture were significantly improved in the Lower
Basin and relatively little in the Upper Basin.   The enlargement of the
project area had, however, a negative effect on the proposed development
strategy and on the project implementation schedule.   First,  the sound
concept of starting in four pilot zones and expanding on the basis of
experience was lost. Second, as only 15% of the new project area had been
covered by the preparation work, the reraining area was little or not known.
While the Bank guidelines recognize that for rural development projects,
project preparation acquires greater importance and requires longer time
because  of  the  number  and  variety  of  components  and  the  special
implementation needs, the project as appraised was virtually not prepared for
about 85% of the project area. This lack of preparation can be illustrated
by (i) the need after project startup for additional studies of the Rio
Salado and Rio Blanco irrigation areas, and (ii) severe delays in
implementing the irrigation components.   In addition, by the end of the
project, a study of the Papaloapan Basin was incorporated in the project
description because of the then recognized insufficient knowledge of the
socio-economic, topographical and ecological conditions of the region.   The
results of the study are expected to be used to identify and prepare future
programs in the Basin but were of little help for implementing the
project.6/
23.       Third, the integrated approach, recommended at project preparation
for the selected pilot zones, proved an impossible task on such a large
project  area.    While  the appraisal report  states  that the  concept of
integrated rural development would be used for the selection of feeder roads
and rural infrastructure, the latter turned out to be scattered throughout
the project area with little or no link with the productive and production-
support components. As a result, the financial, economic and social benefits
of some of the project roads and social infrastructure remain doubtful.
6/   The Goverament comments that the expansion of the project area also
increased the dispersion of project works throughout the Papaloapan
Basin and decreased the interest of potential contractors to execute
project investments.



- 8 -
24.       The  integrated  approach  was  further  undermined  by  the  strict
economic criteria designed for the selection and siting of the social
infrastructure, another issue discussed at Board presentation.   Covenants
requiring that social infrastructure be limited to villages between 500 and
5,000 inhabitants did not necessarily fit with the integrated development
approach, which pre-supposes that all project actions are concentrated in the
same area.    For the project,  as expanded by the appraisal mission,  a
successful integrated development strategy would have required an additional
preparation for about 85% of the Papaloapan Basin area, a complete
contradiction with the Bank's and Government's pressure for quick action.
25.       Althcugh  the  project  was  economically  successful  and  partly
achieved its objectives, the audit concludes that a less ambitious and
properly integrated project on a smaller area with good potential would have
been wiser.  With the benefit of hindsight and based on the experience of
many audited projects of this nature,!] OED has found that Bank-assisted
regional development projects have often attempted too much in a short time,
resulting in high costs and low achievements.   Regional development is
generally a long-term process.   There is a need for starting small and
carefully phasing project actions. The results obtained under a first, pilot
project, often have to be consolidated and expanded by one or several
follow-on projects.   A long-term and phased development process remains,
however, justified in most cases, because of the large area and the large
number of beneficiaries of this type of project.   This approach can be
illustrated by the successful on-going Tropical Agriculture Project (Loan
1553-ME) in Mexico, aiming at developing pilot zones to be used as testing
grounds to develop administrative, technical and socio-economic packages for
future application in the region.
Project Organization and Interagency Coordination
26.       The Appraisal Report states that -the Commission would be carrying
out the Project with the assistance,  if necessary, of other appropriate
government agencies' (nine agencies including the Commission were expected to
participate in the project).
27.       With the exception of the rural electrification and health center
programs, which were implemented since the outset respectively by the Federal
Electricity Commission and the Construction Commiscion of the Secretariat of
Health, most project works were actually executed by the Papaloapan
Commission with insufficient or no consultation with the line agencies. This
7/   See,  particularly,  the  following  PPARs:    Tanzania  Kig3ma  Rural
Development Project (OED Report No. 4858, dated December 28, 1983);
Burkina  Bougouriba  Agricultural  Development  Project  (OED  Report
No. 4541, dated June 15, 1983); Madagascar Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project (OEE Report No. 5403, dated December 28, 1984); and
Mexico PT-DER I Project (OED Report No. 4617, dated June 30, 1983).



- 9 -
state of affairs, not uncommon in projects of this kind,S/ had some adverse
consequences:
(a) while most of the social infrastructure is undoubtedly benefitting
the population of the Papaloapan Basin, there is no evidence,
however, that the selection of villages for the construction of
schools and health centers has been fully appropriate. This can be
illustrated by the following examples encountered by the audit
mission: a school was built under the project in a village where a
school previously existed, and where another one was constructed
imediately after by the Secretariat of Education, resulting in
three schools which are not fully operational; a health center,
built in a village under the project, is visited, on average, only
by one patient every other day; duplication with other programs
(PIDER9/ particularly) has been noticed in some cases;
(b) at project completion, taking over by line agencies and village
authorities  turned out to be a serious  problem.   Because of
shortages of personnel and budget, line agencies have difficulty
staffing, equipping as well as operating and maintaining the
project facilities that they take over. A number of health centers
lack medicine, and are now mostly staffed with students on
compulsory service; while all schools have been staffed, some of
them have still not been equipped several years after completion;
water and electricity connections have not yet been completed for a
number of project facilities; the audit mission also noted that
maintenance has been and remains a serious problem, and some of the
facilities visited need rehabilitation only a few years after
completion.
28.       The handing over problems at project completion raise the question
as to whether the Papaloapan Commission was the right instrument for
executing a multicomponent project of this kind.  At the project preparation
stage, some doubts were expressed on the Commission's capacity to be the
principal executing agency for the project, because of its poor record for
speedy implementation and action, and its inadequate staffing both in
quantity and quality. The preparation mission proposed that the Commission,
conveniently strengthened, be the agency responsible for the project, but
that its role would be more of a coordinatiag nature than directly
executive.   Most of the project works would be delegated to specialized
8/   See particularly PPARs:  Paraguay Credit and Rural Development Project
(OED Report No. 4419) and Haiti Rural Development in the North (under
preparation).
9/   Mexico Integrated Rural Development Project, PIDER I, II and III (Loans
1110-HE, 1462-ME, and 2043-ME).



- 10 -
agencies. Nevertheless, contrary to proposals of the preparation mission and
despite the considerable expanston of the project area, it was decided at
appraisal that the Commission wo.itd be the executing agency for the project.
It was apparently thought that t.e Commission would be capable of efficiently
performing its task because of its past 25 years experience in the Fapaloapan
Basin.
29.       At completion,  it  can  be  said  that the  Commission  performed
relatively well given the difficulty and size of the project. The Commission
was successful in implementing the productive components of the project, but
faced many difficulties executing and handing over social iufrastructure. In
retrospect, the project organization was probably not the most adequate for
this type of project, or conversely, the project was too large and complex
for this type of organization. As already noted in DED reports, the simpler
a project is, the more likely it is to succeed. In addition, there is a risk
that a multicomponent project would detract the executing agency from its
ability to carry out productive investments (a question which was also
debated at Board presentation).
30.       Therefore,  the response to integrated rural development  in the
Papaloapan Basin might well have been to get specific projects (agriculture,
roads, education, health) implemented by each responsible line agency and
coordinated by  the Commission.   Such a type of organization would have
required special efforts to strengthen line agencies but would have
considerably alleviated their taking over problems when investments were
completed.
Rate of Return Calculation
31.       While the audit mission has no objection on the project ERR as
reestimated in the PCR, this project illustrates an OED finding in a number
of Bank-assisted rural development projects.  OED has found that Appraisal
Reports of rural development, multicomponent projects use different criteria
for calculating the project ERR.  For this project, the ERR was calculated
under two different assumptions: (a) with all project components treated as
necessary costs to obtain the project benefits and (b) excluding social
infrastructure from project costs. ERR was estimated at 26% under the first
assumption, and 65% under the second.   In some projects, only costs and
benefits of productive components are taken into account, while in others all
components are considered as project costs.  Finally, separate ERR analysis
is sometimes made for rural roads and other specific components.
32.       This situation is partly explained by flexible Bank guidelines
which recognize that some project benefits can be quantified at appraisal
while others  cannot.   Bank guidelines,  however,  indicate  that costs of
project elements should be included in total costs if these elements are
necessary for achieving production targets. The appreciation of what are the
necessary- and -not necessary" elements to achieve project targets is left
to appraisal missions and varies considerably from one project to another.



- 11 -
33.       It is OED experience that at project completion, ERR estimates tend
to be quite simple, in contrast with sophisticated appraisal calculations.
Most of the "CRs only take into account actual costs and benefits related to
productive investments; some PCRs also consider costs of production-support
components while social infrastructure ls virtually neve-: included in the
cost-benefit stream. When separate ERRs have been calculated for roads in
appraisal reports,  they never appear in PCRs.   As a result, comparisons
between ERR estimates at appraisal and completion as well as comparisons
between projects are particularly difficult and sometimes misleading for this
type of project.
34.       One  of  the  reasons  for  applying  different  criteria  for  ERR
calculation at appraisal and completion is the flexibility and subjectivity
of Bank criteria. If the return on productive investments is found minimal
at completion it is still possible, and justified in many cases, to discard
costs of production support and social infrastructure in the PCR cost-benefit
stream.   These elements have additional, yet unmeasurable, justification;
their institution building or social benefits sometimes exceed those directly
reflected in the outputs of productive investments.
35.       Another  reason  for  simplifying  ERR  calculation  at  completion
appears to be the lack of basic information on actual benefits of many
project components.   As correctly pointed out by the PCR, while in most
projects of this nature, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems have
difficulty measuring agricultural yields and production, they are generally
not designed for calculating actual road traffic, potable water consumption,
school and health center attendance or benefits of eomminity centers and
marketing faciiities. The lessons which can be drawn from OED findings are
that (i) the way an ERR is calculated at appraisal should be commensurate
with the M&E system set up for measuring project achievements and (ii) there
is no need for sophisticated ERR calculations at appraisal when it is clearly
impossible to measure some project benefits at completion.



II .
rk



-13-                           Annse  1
Page 1
TELEX TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH
Mexico, DF                                            May 30, 1985
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
IBRD
Ref: TCP/FCA
I refer to your coumunication of April 15, 1985 trans-
mitting a copy of the draft Project Performance Audit Report on the
Integrated Rural Development Project Papaloapan Basin (Loan 1053-ME)
and requesting our comentc so that they may be taken into consld-
eration in the preparation of the final version to be presented to
the IBRD Executive Directors.
In general, we consider that all aspects of the project
have been covered in the OED document; however, in order to clarify
certain points and make the report more complete, we present below
some consents on the report as a whole and on specific points, which
we would like to see included in the final version.
Please note that these coments were prepared jointly by
representatives of the Papaloapan Commission (the executing agency),
N4AFINSA (the Borrower) and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito PCzblico, the Guarantor), in con-
junction with representatives of the Directorates General of Inter-
national Affairs and of Sectoral Policy and Evaluation (Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources).
A.        GENERAL
1.   It appears from the report that some of the sources of
information quoted in the Preface were not exsained in depth, since
the various documents produced during project preparation,
appraisal, negotiation and execution do, in fact, provide the
necessary information on the project's special features and the
problems that arose.
2.   It must be made clear that the 16 supervision missions by
Disagrement between IBRD staff stressed the financial and technical aspects of the
a supervision i-   project and, in their conclusions, emphasized that the objectives
sion ad the        t vere achieved. This was borne out, for example, in the Bank's
evaluation ui.sion comunuication of January 11, 1980: "Similarly, I am gratified that,
five years later ig once more, and in spite of delays in execution, the benefits from
not uncommon.        agricultural extension, road construction and social inf:astructure
development are already significant. Consequently, we believe it is
important to state that the project's objectives have been fully



- 14-                     Annex I
Page 2
achieved."  It is clear from the foregoing that the supervision
missions' conclusions are not in agreement with those contained in
the PPAR.
See paras. 29-30.  It      3.   The report states repeatedly that the Papaloapan Commission
is the opinion of thewas not a suitable executing agency. We do not fully agree with
x-post evaluation   this statement, because project implementation showed that the
that the Commission Comission performed to the limits of its ability and experience.
was rather successful
given the difficulty       4.   As regards the use to which the project works vill be put,
and size of the       the Government of Mexico has decided that each of the states involved
project.  This does  shall be responsible for completing the works and providing the same
not mean, however,   benefits for the population as defined in the original a&if.
that the best insti-
tutional arrangement       5.   The report should state in greater detail whether the
was to give the Com- comparisons between the original aims for each component and those
mission full respon- for the project as a whole [TN: apparent meaning; original text
sibility for project garbled] allow for the cut of about 50S imposed under the 1976
execution.           budget.  If so, we believe that the report's conclusions do not take
sufficient account of certain adjustments, such as the correlation
between the reductions in cost (51S), in loan amount (52X) and in
See footnote para.12.direct benefits (581). It should also be stated whether the
extension of the original execution period by three years, and other
consequential factors, were considered.
B.        SPECIFIC
1.   On page vi [TN:  page iv of English version] the report
states: "Project implementation was delayed by insufficient
budgetary allocations, limited capacity within the Comoission for
the preparation of final designs and bidding documents, lack and
poor performance of contractors in the remote project area, and
declining government support during the first years of project
implementation."
It must be borne in mind that during the first years of
wecution (1975-76), Mexico was faced with economic difficulties led
by high inflation and a major devaluation of the currency. This
obliged the Mexican Government to reduce public expenditure. and
this meant cuts in budgetary allocations that affected the
Papaloapan Basin Development Project.
See footnote para.22.           As regards the lack of contractors, it was evident, from
the very time when IBRD agreed to extend the project's area of
influence, that the small scale of the work and the remoteness of
the region would make it unattractive to contractors.
The same paragraph continues: "At completion, three years
behind schedule, only about half of the original project components
were implemented and 48S of the Bank lea- was cancelled." The
report should make it clear that this was because the original
estimates were revised; as were, therefore, the original aims.
Similarly, it should be pointed out that SARK sought, and obtained,
IBRD approval for a three-year extension of the execution period.



-                          Annex 1
Page 3
2.   In the third paragiaph of page vi [TN:  page v of English
version; paragraph beginning "Despite the reduction..."], IBRD
should state in detail the ci-iteria used to calculate the number of
beneficiaries in the social infrastructure program. Similarly, the
Change in para. 27   Mexican &overnment considers that, although the judgment regarding
the supposed poor quality of construction in social infrastructure
works might be valid for some of the works visited last January by
the audit mission (which, in fact, saw only a very small part of the
area concerned) these opinions must not be applied to the project as
a whole, since that sample was not representative.
3.   On page vii [TN:  page v of English version] it is stated
See para. 15.         that:  "The project ERR, excluding the cost of social infra-
structure, is now estimated at about 201 (651 at appraisal)." The
report should explain in detail the bases used to calculate these
estimates, and the reasons for IBRD's disappointment.
4.  We do not agree with the following comment on page vii
[TN: page vi of English version]: "The integrated approach proved
The fact that socLal impossible on such a large project area and was further undermined
infrastructure was  by the strict economic criteria debigned for the selection and
useful does not mean siting of the social infrastructure (PPAM. paras. 23-24)."
that it is integrated
with production coom-           It must be stated that the integrated approach was, in
ponent.               fact, successful, because use was made of the social infrastructure
constructed near productive areas and the economic and social
resources available in marginal areas, particularly in the upper
basin.
5.   To amplify the information in the paragraph on page viii
See new para. 27.    [TN: page vi of English version] referring to the handing over
problems at project completion, we wish to point out that the
Commission is in possession of the deeds for the handing over of the
454 classrooms constructed, which the beneficiaries undertook to
maintain in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Education
(Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica: SEP). The remaining 212 were
constructed by CAPFCE, with SEP taking over responsibility for them.
The heath centers were built in their entirety by the Ministry of
Health and Welfare (Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia: SSA).
Since the beginning, in fact, SSA has operated and supervised the
centers independently of the Commission. The electrification works
were constructed under an agreement with the Federal Electricity
Commission, and the Works Committee (Comite Pro-Obras) of the
Ministry of Communications and Transportation (Secretaria de
Communicaciones y Transportes) has undertaken to maintain the roads
built by the Commission. We therefore suggest that the report
should provide fuller information on these points.
6.   On the same page it is stated:  "No water charges were
collected, mostly because of existing private water rights,
opposition by producers and the Borrower's failure to establish the
irrigation districts on a legal basis (PCR, para. 3.24)."



-16-                        Annex 1
Page 4
It should be added to the report that the irrigation
districts Esperanza and Palmar de Bravo, Puebla [TN: considered a
See change in para.  single district in the report] were established by order published
3.24 of the PCR and  in the Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n (Official Gazette) of May 6.
page vi of the ppAH. 1976; Rio Blanco, Veracruz, was established by order of May 29, 1963
published in the Official Gazette of July 23, 1963; and Rio Salado
(Puebla and Oaxaca) was established by order of March 17, 1965
published in the Official Gazette of March 19, 1965. In addition,
it must be noted that water charges are set for each agricultural
season by the Administrative Committees (Comites Directivos). There
was opposition from individuals to the payment of water charges
[TN: apparent meaning; original text garbled] only in the case of
the Salaca irrigation district, because it was established after
private water rights had been granted, and these had to be
respected. The Esperanza irrigation district began official
operations in 1984.
Only the Federal Government - and not the Borrower - is
empowered to establish irrigation districts, as is clear from
Section IV, 69 through 72 of the Federal Water Law.
The final sentence of paragraph 10 of the Su-ary states:
See new para. 10.   '"SAR, however, took no action and continued expressing its interest
in completing project investments." We consider this statement
incorrect, because SARK decided to complete project investments
after examining the alternatives proposed.
8.   Paragraph 12(a) states:  "...only 7 out of 40 tubewells
were equipped at completion and 772 ha were irrigated, compared with
2.400 ha estimated at appraisal."
See footnote para. 12
and PCR para. 3.02.             The document fails to mention that the Appraisal Report
did not take account of the existence in the area of 20 equipped
wells that had been financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). and that this made it necessary to cancel the drilling of 33
of the 40 planned wells in order to avoid serious hydrological
problems.
9.   In paragraph 12(b), concerning technical assistance by the
Commission to farmers engaged in rainfed agriculture, we recommend
that the Commission's DINA (?) final report be reviewed, in parti-
See new para. 12.   cular Table 2, which indicates clearly that the targets of the Rural
Development Program were met.  The Commission considers that the
achievements described in this part of the report deserve an
additional measure of praise.
10. Paragraph 17 states: "In addition, the question as to
No contradition: the whether the Papaloapan Commission was the right instrument for
objective of ex-Post executing a project of this kind remains open."
evaluation is precise-
ly to review whether           This contradicts paragraph 7, which states:  "The primary
the decisions made  executing agency was to be the Papaloapan Commission, created in
at appraisal were   1947 within the Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH) to plan,
right or not.        design and construct all types of public works in the Papaloapan



- 17-                      Annex 
Page 5
Basin. The Commission would carry out the project with the
assistance of other government agencies...." It must also be
remembered that IBRD itself agreed that the Papaloapan Comission
should be the executing agency, assisted and advised by the
appropriate government agencies, and that this was stated in the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
11. The final part of paragraph 19 states: "...finally,
delays due to late approval of annual budget authorizations by the
See para. 19.        Federal Government, a frequent practice in Mexico, was (sic) not
foreseen despite the Bank's previous experience in the country." It
must be pointed out that Federal budget authorizations are made in
November preceding the year to which they apply, and that government
departments are then responsible Eor implemeting them. Similarly,
the "Secas Agreement" permits departments to apply budgetary
appropriations before the beginning of the year, thus making such
expenditures more flexible by allowing the ones for the folloving
fiscal year to be spread also over the preceding November, December,
January and February. We suggest that the portion of the text
quoted be omitted because it is misleading.
12. Paragraph 22 states:  "...the sound concept of starting in
See new para. 22.    four pilot zones and expanding on the basis of experience was
lost." Hovever, as the report itseLf ha previously mentioned, this
was really the result of pressure from IBD and the Nexican
Government to enlarge the project area. Nevertheless, the concept
of pilot zones and expansion from them is valid for such types of
hydrological and climatological areas, and therefore we consider
that it was right to expand the original four zones because they did
not include particularly productive components, and did produce the
best results.
Increased incomes         13. The last sentence in paragraph 23 states:  " ..... the
derived by farmers   finAncial, economic and social benefits of some of. the project roads
from productive      and social infrastructure remain doubtful."  The report should go
incomes are eXPected into greater detail, indicating which roads are referred to and
to induce a better  which aspects of social infrastructure have not yielded the expected
use of and generate benefits.
more incremental
benefits from roads       14. Referring at one point [TN: paragraph 27(b)] to
and social infra-    coordination problems. the report states that:  ".. .the Secretariat
structure.           of Health has refused to take over about half of the health centers
on the grounds that they were poorly constructed or not completed."
This statement is not entirely correct, since the sample
visited by the audit mission in January 1985, and consisting of only
a few health centers, is not large enough to justify this comment.
Moreover, we must reiterate the remark made in paragraph 4 above
See new para. 27(b). that, from the beginning, the Secretariat of Health itself was
responsible for construction and maintenance of the health centers.



-18-                       Annex I
Page 6
1U. To avoid unnecessary repetition, we propose that the
comments made above be applied to the remainder of the text from
paragraph 27.
Jose Luis Flores Hernuindez
Director, International Financial
Organizations
Ministry of Finance



- 19 -
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (Loan 1053-E)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
April 20, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



L1 1
I



- 21 -
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAPALOAPAN BASIN (Loan 1053-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      By the early 1970s, the Government was deeply concerned about the
rising tide of poverty in rural areas. In spite of the far reaching agrarian
reform, a large number of people in rural areas continued to live under
depressed economic and social conditions. At that time, because of limited
resources and inadequate support services, about 85S of the farmers contrib-
uted only 12% of the total agricultural output.
1.02      To address rural poverty, the Government redefined its overall
development strategy, focusing on agricultural diversification, production
growth and income distribution. Integrated rural development became the
backbone of the Government's strategy for alleviating poverty. Further, to
heighten attention and ensure effective coordination, the rural development
program was implemented under the auspices of the Presidency. Planning,
implementation and supervision were decentralized and large budget outlays
were allocated for rural development.
1.03      As an initial step, micro-regions were identified as major poverty
pockets throughout the country. Additionally, the Papaloapan Basin, an
important agricultural region but one of the most underdeveloped regions in
Mexico, was selected as a priority area for rural development. The thrust of
the development program in the Papaloapan Basin was intended to link produc-
tive support components with social infrastructure to promote a balanced
social and economic development. The approval of the Papaloapan Project came
on the heels of Mr. McNamara's famous 1973 Nairobi speech on poverty, which
emphasized the importance of rural development.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
2.01      The Mexican Government asked the Bank for assirtance in preparing a
rural development project in the Upper Papaloapan Basin as early as 1972.
Much effort, both from the Ministry of Hydraulic Resources and the Papaloapan
Commission as well as from FAO and the Bank, went into the preparation of
this project. The first FAO/CP mission visited the Basin in January 1972 and
the second in February 1973. The Bank and FAO/CP spent about 202 staff-days
in project identification and preparation (152 for the Bank and 50 for
FAO/CP).



- 22 -
2.02      Project appraisal was carried out in the field in November 1973.
Following the Supplementary Decision Meeting (March 1974) which questioned
the irrigation program, a post-appraisal mission was sent in August 1974 to
reassess this component. The mission endorsed the appraisal mission's
assessment.
B. Board Approval
2.03      During negotiations, no serious fsones were raised.  Board
presentation and approval took place October 29, 1974. While the Board sup-
ported the project, the following concerns were raised during discussions:
(a) considering the pioneering nature of the project, the size of
the project arDa (46,517 sq km) was considered too large;
(b) including infrastructure development components in a rural
developaent project, along with regular productive components,
could reduce the availability of basic social infrastructure
facilities to segments of the population outside the project
area; and
Cc) excluding small villages (below 500 persons) from some project
components was questioned, given their need for social infras-
tructure benefits, such as water supply and sewerage, electric-
ity supply, educational facilities, and community centers.
C. Objectives and Description
2.04      The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) expand food pro-
duction; (b) improve income distribution by raising the income level of poor
families through provision of credit and technical services; and (c) improve
the quality of life in depressed areas by bringing the level of social
services available closer to the national average.
2.05      The appraised project cor:sisted of:  (a) directly productive compo-
nents; (b) productive suppsrt; (c) social infrastructure; and (d) monitor-
ing. The rationale for this combination of components was that the directly
productive investment had to be backed up by support components; and the
anticipated increase in the population's purchasing power would have to be
matched by social infrastructure. This would, in turn, keep the farmers
receptive to technological and social change and motivate them to work their
land more effectively.
2.06      The primary executing agency was the Papaloapan Commission,
assisted by other specialized agencies: the Federal Power Commission for
Electricity (CFE), and the Secretariats of Education and Health for educa-
tional and medical facilities, respectively.
D. Project Cost and Financing
2.07      Total project costs at appraisal were US$138.5 million.  Of the
total, US$18 million for on-farm incremental working capital was to be
financed as follows by: (a) agricultural producers, US$0.9 million (5Z);



- 23 -
(b) Government, US$8.5 million (47%); and (c) Bank, US$8.6 million (48Z) from
the ongoing Loan 910-ME. The remaining US$120.5 million was to be financed
from three sources: (a) the Bank loan of US$50.0 million, equivalent to 41%;
(b) Government with US$60.3 million (50%); and (c) beneficiaries US$10.2
million (9%). At completion, the total project cost amounted to about
US$70.0 million (Annex I).
III.  IMPLENENrATION
3.01      The loan, which was approved on October 1974, became effective
January 27, 1975. Project implementation followed immediately and the first
Bank supervision mission took place in February 1975. The SAR assumed a five-
year implementation period, and the project was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1979. The project which was not fully completed was terminated
at the end of 1982, after eight years of implementation. Table 3.1 (page 4)
shows estimated targets and actual accomplishments by project component.
A. Project Components
Productive Component
3.02      Irrigation Systems.  Although the target was to reach about 24,500
ha in three irrigation districts (19,600 ha for rehabilitation and 4,900 ha
for new new irrigation), the actual results summarized below and in Annex II
were somewhat mixed:
(a) in the first district, Esperanza y Palmar de Bravo, the target
was to drill, equip, and develop 40 deep tubewells, and pro-
vide gravity canal distribution systems in the entire area
(2,400 ha). However, the SAR made no refercnce to the 20
existing deep tubewells, financed previously by Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), nor to the necessity, due to topo-
graphic and soil conditions, to use sprinkler irrigation
instead of gravity. Existing private water rights and urban
water demand, coupled with the lack of a legal Irrigation
District, were also impediments. Nevertheless, the project
equipped seven of the existing IDB tubewells and irrigated
772 ha using sprinklers;
(b) in Rio Salado only about 1,979 ha of the 6,100 ha were reha-
bilitated. Private water rights upstream of the Bank-financed
area and lack of a legal Irrigation District impaired further
development;
(c) in the Rio Blanco District (16,000 ha) the impact was greater;
however, about 7,500 ha of the Irrigated area is still under
pasture instead of crop production; and
(d) in addition to these areas, d small-scale hydraulic infra-
structure component was added to the project in 1980, which
provided three more small-scale irrigation developments,
covering about 1,700 ha.



- 24 -
Table 3.1: Project Targets and Accomplishments by Category
Appraisal Accomplishments
Item                              Unit         Estimate    Actual      z
(1974)     (1982)
Productive Component
1. Irrigation Systems
(a)  Esperanza y Palmar de Bravo          ha            2,400        772       32
(b)  Rio Salado Irrigation Distric
(i)  Rehabilitation                  ha            3,600      1,979       55
(ii) New Land                        ha            2,500         -         -
(c)  Rio Blanco Irrig. District           ha           16,000     16,000      100
(d)  Small Scale Hydraulic Infras.        ha              -         1,678       -
(e)  PLAMEPA                              ha           24,500     12,738       52
2. Rainfed
(a)  PLANPA                               ha          100,000    130,598      131
Productive Support Component
3.  Experimental Farms a/                      no.            3           -          -
4. Feeder Roads                                km.           1,340        601.2    45
5. Marketing Facilities                        no.            12            6      50
Social Infrastructure Component
6. Water Supply Facilities                 Systems            260         130      50
Beneficiaries  307,000    193,084       63
7.  Sewerage Facilities                    Systems              12         10      83
Beneficiaries   42,300      45,341     107
8.  Electricity Supply                     Systems             106        128     121
Beneficiaries  136,700    129,827       95
9.  Medical Facilities                     Systems             185         49      26
Beds               555         n.a.    n.ae
Beneficiaries  323,700    134,446       42
10.  Educational Facilities                 Classrooms        1,185        668      56
Beneficiaries   59,300      33,400      56
11.  Community Centers                      Buildings           141         23      16
Beneficiaries  105,700      28,251      27
12. Project Monitoring
Papaloapan Basin Study b/
13. Basic Surveys/Development
Projects Identification
a/  Not implemented because of already existing facilities; however, 2 agricultural
technical school and 54 technical school annexes were built.
b/  Not foreseen at appraisal.  The study started in June 1981, after the
Loan/Guarantee was revised in June 1981. By Closing Data, the first phase
of the study was completed.



- 25 -
3.03      The existing Government Land Improvement (PLAMEPA), provided inten-
sive technical assistance to farmers in irrigated areas, especially in those
of Rio Salado and Rio Blanco. As a result, in Rio Salado there was a small
increase of rehabilitation works covering about 1,979 ha. In Rio Blanco, the
results were more impressive: (a) irrigated areas increased 'Ly about
7,000 ha; (b) a second fall/winter cropping cycle was introduced; (c) crop
yields increased significantly; and (d) crop diversification, emphasizing
fruits and vegetables, took place.
3.04      Rainfed Agriculture.  In terms of agricultural production and pro-
ductivity, the project exceeded appraisal targets (Annex II). The target
group was about 60,000 farm families, most of them at the subsistence level.
At appraisal the area to which the Government's Papaloapan Plan for Rainfed
Agriculture (PLANPA) was to provide technical assistance was estimated at
100,000 ha. However, by 1982 PLANPA had reached an average of 130,598 ha per
year during the course of the project execution. During the project period,
an annual average of 45,500 farm families in rainfed areas received technical
assistance from the project. This is in line with appraisal estimates. In
addition, productivity and production increases were high under the project
(Annexe3 II and V).
Productive Support Component
3.05      Experimental Farms.  The provision for three experimental farms,
mainly for rainfed agriculture, was not properly assessed at appraisal.
At that time, the National Institute of Agricultural Research (INIA) had a
network of research and experimental facilities in the project area. Conse-
quently, the experimental farms were not completed; however, under this
component 2 agricultural technical schools and 54 technical school annexes
were built.
3.06      Feeder Roads.  Altogether, 58 feeder roads totalling 601 km and
serving about 72,000 ha were constructed. The appraisal target was 1,340
km. The target was overambitious for three reasons: (a) limited capacity
within the Papaloapan Commission for the preparation of design and bidding
documents; (b) lack of counterpart funds, at least until the end of 1979
(only 397 km built); and (c) lack of qualified and well equipped local con-
tractors for this type of work. The above problem was further compounded by
the fact that the annual work period was limited to six months due to rain-
fall conditions.
3.07      Marketing Facilities.  While the project included construction of
12 storage facilities, only six units were built and partially equipped, with
a total potential storage capacity of 15,OCO MT (2,500 MT/Unit). To date,
none of them have been used efficiently because of limited demand for these
facilities.



- 26 -
Social Infrastructure Component
3.08      At appraisal the project's overall objective was to bring the level
of social services in villages with 500-5,000 inhabitants closer to the
national average, and to encourage more people to live in villages where such
services could be provided. As shown in Table 3.1, and as discussed below,
results have been mixed. Because of limited monitoring and evaluation
(para. 3.15), it is difficult to ascertain the quality of services provided
under various social infrastructure components. It would also appear that
specific training programs would have strengthened these components.
3.09      Water Supply.  In terms of systems only 50% of the water supply
targets were met, although about 63% of the population has been served. Most
of the water supply systems were delayed because of: (a) low capacity in
subproject design and preparation; and (b) lack of qualified and interested
contractors. Further delays were caused by the reluctance of many benefici-
aries to comply with the financial aspects concerning operation and mainte-
nance, and investment, such as immediate payment of at least 20% of invest-
ment costs, and later contributing toward operation and maintenance expend-
itures.
3.10      Sewerage.  In terms of targets, implementation results are satis-
factory, as 10 out of 12 systems were built, supporting more than 100% of the
beneficiaries.
3.11      Electricity Supply.  Results under this program were satisfactory;
the targets projected at appraisal were met: 128 systems were built against
106 proposed, and about 130,000 people were served, i.e., 95% level of effi-
ciency.
3.12      Medical Facilities.  Only 49 of the 185 health centers envisioned
at appraisal were built. Although the estimated and actual numbers of bene-
ficiaries appear to be comparable, the figures should be interpreted with
caution. In 1980, three major constraints were identified: (a) lack of
interest and limited resources of ths Building and Engineering Commission of
the Secretariat of Health (CCISSA); (b) shortage of medical specialists to
operate these facilities; and (c) lack of funds. Due to further budgetary
constraints in 1982/1983, it is not known how many of the 49 health centers
are actually now in operation.
3.13      Educational Facilities.  There was a 44% shortfall in the comple-
tion of the appraised educational facilities, which can be attributed to:
(a) the scattered locations of needed school buildings, especially in moun-
tainous areas; (b) procurement constraints, as this type of civil works is
small-scale and of little interest to contractors; and (c) bureaucratic cons-
traints, such as having to deal with the Secretariat of Education's Adminis-
trative Committee of the Federal School Construction Program (CAPFCE) which,
in addition to providing equipment, had to supply the teachers, a most dif-
ficult task in remote and often isolated rural areas. There is also some
overlapping in this effort since PIDER projects also provide educational
facilities in the project area.



- 27 -
3.14      Community Centers.  There was also a shortfall in providing commu-
nity centers (23 centers built instead of 141 projected at appraisal). In
addition to the same constraints as those outlined above for educational
facilities, there was an almost total lack of interest in most communities
for this type of social infrastructure. Furthermore, a building by itself
without proper support serves no useful purpose in terms of integrated rural
development.
3.15      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation efforts were
modest because the executing agency lacked experience in these areas. About
229 questionnaires/survey sheets were completed on seven of the project com-
ponents. Based on this survey, it would appear that the greatest benefits
for the beneficiaries were: feeder roads, electrification, water supply, and
educational facilities. During project implementation, increased emphasis
should have been placed on project monitoring and evaluation. External sup-
port should have been used, along with local expertise, to set up an effec-
tive framework for monitoring and evaluating project results of various
programs supported under the project.
3.16      Papaloapan Basin Study.  Although not included at appraisal, this
component was incorporated into the project in June 1981 at the request of
the Government. Three major Government entities were involved in this exer-
cise (Papaloapan Commission, the National Hydraulic Planning Commission and
the Secretariat of Agriculture's General Directorate of Studies). The
initial phase of the study focused on the socio-economic diagnosis of the
basin, basic data collection, topographic maps (820,000 ha), soil survey and
land classification, hydrology, land tenure and land use. The Government
plans to use this informattott to identify and prepare development projects in
the basin.
B. Disbursements
3.17      Total disbursements amounted to US$26.0 million, or 52% of the
original loan amount of US$50.0 million, by the Closing Date (Annex III and
Basic Data Sheet). The rate of the loan disbursements indicates that up to
the end of FY78, or after three years of implementation, total disbursements
were only US$6.5 million, or 18% of the appraisal estimate. This pocr dis-
bursement rate can be attributed to the following three constraints which
handicapped the project from its inception:
(a) overoptimistic assumptions made by the Bank at appraisal in terms
of project implementation rate, size and scope of the investment
program, and beneficiary participation;
(b) lack of interest in the project on the part of the Borrower/
Guarantor during the period 1976-1979; and
(c) insufficient and untimely availability of counterpart funds,
primarily for investments.



- 28 -
3.18      In 1977 the Papaloapan Commission requested the Secretariat of
Agriculture (SARH) to consider three alternatives to alleviate problems
impeding project implementation: (a) termination of the project;
(b) reduction of the Bank loan to US$30.0 million; or (c) extension of the
implementation period. However, SARH took no action on the above request
because the project was in its early stages of implementation.
3.19      After steady growth in FY79, disbursements continued to increase in
FY80 (US$6.25 million). Since then, in recognition of the implementation
difficulties, the Borrower requested and received two partial cancellations
of loan proceeds (US$12.0 million in February 1981, and US$9.0 million in
August 1982).
C. Procurement
3.20      General procurement procedures outlined in the Guarantee Agreement
included that, except for consultants, all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$80,000 or more should be carried out under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). As early as the first supervision mission, the
Bank told the Guarantor and its executing agency that they mist follow procu-
rement procedures, primarily ICB, in accordance with the Guarantee Agree-
ment. The importance of following procurement procedures was reiterated
again in 1976. However, during the 1976-1979 period, it would seem that the
Bank paid little attention to procurement procedures. ICB was never applied
in the project; and until the Guarantee Agreement was amended in 1980 all
contracts were awarded under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), except for
electrification, which was carried out under force account by the Federal
Electricity Commission (CFE). However, during this period the Bank continued
with disbursements, amounting to about US$5.0 million.
3.21      In December 1979 a special supervision mission, in keeping with the
Commission's request, recommended to Bank management changes in procurement
procedures to accelerate project execution and disbursements. For civil
works, the changes in the Guarantee Agreement in 1980 allowed the Papaloapan
Commission: (a) to follow procedures relating to directly negotiated
contracts for civil works with the best qualified contractors to carry out
the works up to US$220,000 equivalent per contract, compared to the previous
US$80,000 equivalent; and (b) to follow LCP procedures for contracts above
US$220,000 equivalent. In addition, contracts for goods, above US$220,000
equivalent, were to be procured under ICB. Records submitted by the
Papaloapan Commission show that between 1975 and 1982 about 59% of contracts
for civil works were directly negotiated. Similarly, sizes of contracts
varied between US$15,000-US$150,000 for equipment and US$10,000-US$1.3
million equivalent for civil works scattered throughout the project area. It
would also appear that the threshold level established during appraisal and
loan negotiations for both equipment and civil works procurement was too low
considering the conditions prevailing in the project area.
D. Reporting and Auditing
3.22      Project reporting was generally satisfactory.  From project effec-
tiveness (January 1975) to 1977, reporting on a semi-annual basis was con-
sidered acceptable. However, in 1978, a more expanded reporting format was



- 29 -
introduced. Except for 1979, reports from 1980 to project completion
(December 1982) were received regularly in a satisfactory manner.
3.23      SARH's Internal Auditing Directorate prepared auditing reports for
FY77/78, but these were not submitted to the Bank. A partial audit, however,
was performed for FY79 and submitted to the Bank. For FY80/81 the project
accounts were also audited by SARH's internal auditors but they were not sub-
mitted to the Bank. Despite numerous reminders through correspondence and
supervision missions, the Borrower failed to comply fully with the auditing
requirement.
E. Adherence to Covenants
3.24      In addition to the auditing requirements, the Guarantee Agreement
included several cost recovery clauses for a number of project components.
Their implications and compliance by the Borrower can be summarized as
follows:
(a) Irrigation Water Charges. Socio-economic studies to determine,
inter alia, the ability of water users to pay for the cost of
irrigation, including operation and maintenance, had to be
carried out in each irrigation area by December 31, 1979.
Ultimately, one study (Rio Blanco Irrigation District) was
submitted to the Bank in January 1981, but there was no
follow-up by the Borrower. It should be noted, however, that
water charges were rerovered to some extent in this district
during the period 1976-1982. In the two other districts (Rio
Salado and Esperapza/Palma de Bravo), on the other hand, no
water charges were collected because of insufficient irrigation
water, existing private water rights, serious political
opposition by the producers, and the Borrower's failure to
operate them in accordance with the requirements of the 1972
Federal Water Law. The Commission is responsible for
operations and maintenance, which is financed from its own
budget. By and large, operation and maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage systems have varied from poor to fair;
(b) Water Supply Systems. By and large, the beneficiaries
participated in assuming at least 20X of investments costs.
Additionally, they are operating and maintaining such systems
in accordance with their financial revenues. The same can be
said about operation and maintenance of the sewerage systems;
(c) Community Centers. The centers were built without the 20%
financial contribution from the villages concerned, and
practically no revenues were collected within the community for
the centers' operation and maintenance. Instead, beneficiaries
participated in the construction of these centers by providing
manpower and some construction materials (sand and stones); and
(d) Rural Electricity. Since the outset, the electricity program,
including investments, was taken over by the Federal
Electricity Commission, which is reponsible for setting
tariffs. The tariffs have been paid by the beneficiaries in
the project area.



- 30 -
IV. ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
A. Incremental Output
4.01      Based on the data provided by SARH/Papaloapan Commission, the
overall project impact has already been quite significant in terms of incre-
mental income. In 1983 real net benefits from the project were already
about 23% higher than before the project. The most noticeable income
increase has occurred in the Rio Blanco irrigation area, where net benefits
increased about nine-fold by 1983. The Esperanza and small-scale hydraulic
areas, which commenced their development in 1981 and 1982, respectively, have
also shown substantial increases in real net benefits. Other project areas,
such as the Rio Salado and rainfed areas, have shown significant improve-
ments, attributed mainly to technical assistance to farmers. However, in the
PLANPA rainfed area, which was adversely affected during the project by
drought conditions, annual incomes were actually reduced in 1980 and 1981.
Nevertheless, a clear trend of increased income is quite evident (Annex IV).
4.02      Direct economic benefits from the project realized by the benefi-
ciary farmers have come from: (a) increased productiou and productivity
(Annex V); (b) increased employment and job security, where approximately
4,000 new permanent jobs were created, as well as numerous seasonal ones; and
(c) improvement of farmers' ability to cope more effectively with adversities
alleviated by the provision of technical assistance in more than 200,000 ta
of rainfed areas and the 20,000 ha of irrigated areas. The main indirect
benefits include the development of access roads and improvement in nutri-
tion. The project has also provided an increase in employment opportunities
by developing and expanding services, such as agroindustrial activities, com-
merce and banking.
4.03      Finally, the project has achieved some of the Government's rural
development objectives of increasing the real income of a particularly poor
segment of the population. It has also contributed to increasing grain pro-
duction: about 80% of the rainfed areas are now producing maize, as compared
to about 25% before the project. As a result, there has been some savings of
foreign currency, estimated at about US$30 million per annum. In addition,
the project has helped decrease income disparities between rural and urban
areas through increasing income and providing social services, thereby reduc-
ing rural migration to some extent.
B. Economic Rate of Return
4.04      The economic rate of return, excluding the cost of social infra-
structure, is now estimated at about 20%, compared with 65Z (or 26% if cost
of social infrastructure is included) estimated at appraisal (Annex VI). The
economic rate of return calculations are based on the following assumptions:
(a) agricultural production figures were derived from estimates that the
irrigated areas would be fully developed in 1985, while the rainfed areas
would reach their full development in 1986 (Annex IV); (b) all investments
and benefits are based on constant 1983 prices (Annexes IV and VII); (c) in
1982 the irrigated areas of Rio Salado and Rio Blanco reached about 65% of
their potential development (the Esperanza area commenced its development in
1982 and the small-scale hydraulic area in 1981); (d) both Esperanza and



- 31 -
the small-scale hydraulic area incomes at full development would be propor-
tional to the Rio Blanco area income due to their proximities and ecological
similarities; and (e) the income in the PLANPA rainfed area would continue to
increase until 1986.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      At appraisal the Bank was satisfied with the organizational and
managerial aspects of the Papaloapan Commission as the executing agency of
the project. A Project Director was officially appointed and the Bank was
subsequently informed on October 1, 1974. This Director performed reasonably
well until he resigned at the end of December 1978, after which time the job
was vacant from January 1979 to June 1980. From July 1980 to July 1983,
there was again a full-time Project Director. At no time was the Commis-
sion's performance questioned by any of the Bank supervision missions.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01     On balance, Bank performance was mixed.  The appraisal was too ambi-
tious, although it had a number of innovative ideas. The project scope and
design were too large and complex. The project should have been developed on
a pilot basis, since the country had no experience in integrated rural devel-
opment. The underlying assumptions suffered from several major constraints,
namely: (a) the implementation period was too short; (b) there was a
failure to evaluate properly existing conditions, such as partial completion
of ongoing development works and serious legal and institutional constraints
in the productive components, especially in the irrigation systems; and
(c) the investment estimates were too ambitious. It should be noted that the
Decision Meeting of February 1974 seriously questioned most of the assump-
tions and a Supplementary Decision Meeting (March 1974) raised doubts on the
irrigation component. A special post-appraisal mission was therefore sent in
August 1974, which endorsed the appraisal mission's recommendations. In
restrospect, it would appear that the post-appraisal mission did not ade-
quately deal with the key issues raised at the Decision Meeting.
6.02      Overall, Bank supervision was generally satisfactory.  Although the
Bank sent a series of letters to the Papaloapan Commission requesting, inter
alia, increases in counterpart funds, there is no evidence that in the early
years of implementation Regional Senior Management followed up with high-
level Mexican authorities. A turning point in project implementation came in
December 1979, when the eleventh supervision mission and the Papaloapan Comr
mission's new management forcefully advised the Government of the constraints
outlined in para. 3.17. Despite these difficulties, some progress was made
in terms of accelerating project implementation. In addition, given the
importance of project monitoring and evaluation, Bank supervision missions
sbould have ewmhasized this aspect more strongly. Preferably, the Bank
should have recommended using external expertise to strengthen this compo-
nent. Finally, the Bank should have been more emphatic in insisting that the
Government comply with the cost recovery and procurement covenants.



- 32 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The Papaloapan Project was the first Integrated rural development
program approved by the Bank. The project included the broad features out-
lined in the 1973 Nairobi speech, as well as some innovative ideas. The pro-
ject was timely in providing critical support to the Mexicans who vere
espousing the concept of integrated rural development as a vehicle for amel-
iorating social and economic conditions in depressed micro-regions throughout
the country.
7.02      While the project pioneered a new concept, in the absence of
broad-based experience and institutional and technical capacity, the project
was too ambitious and the five-year implementation period too short. The
loan, which became effective January 27, 1975, closed on December 30, 1982,
after two extensions from the original Closing Date of June 30, 1980. Only
US$26 million, or 52Z, of the total loan amount of US$50 million were dis-
bursed; by the Closing Date, a total of US$24 million had been cancelled.
7.03      On the whole, project objectives have been achleved to some extent,
even though the entire project was not completed by the Closing Date. The
economic rate of return is now estimated at about 20%. However, the project,
except for the rainfed program, fell short of the physical targets set at
appraisal. Despite these s1hortfalls, the project increased food production
and brought about social and economic changes in the area, benefitting a
large number of low-income families. A strong feature of the project has
been the technical assistance program. The technical assistance delivery
system developed under the project facilitated the transfer of appropriate
technology to producers and it enabled farmers to increase productivity and
production in both irrigated and rainfed areas.
7.04      In the first four years of project execution, implementation was
exceedingly slow, with disbursements amounting to only 18% of the appraisal
target. Project progress was adversely affected by lack of sufficient and
timely counterpart funds. It would also appear that during these four years,
the Government's support for the project declined somewhat, thus impeding
project advancement. The project made substantial progress from end-1979 to
1982, mainly because of the Bank's intensive supervision efforts and changes
in management of the Papaloapan Commission. However, the Borrower's com-
pliance with the auditing and cost recovery covenants was less than satis-
factory.
7.05      On balance, the Bank's supervision input was generally reasonable.
From December 1979 on, the Bank's supervision efforts were effective in deal-
ing with a number of serious impediments: budget, procurement, work program,
and engineering designs. During this period, the Bank was also instrumental
in reviving the Government's interest to accelerate project execution. How-
ever, in retrospect, the Bank should have taken the budgetary issue more
rigorously. While this matter was discussed at various levels, the Bank
should have reviewed this aspect at the higher levels of the Mexican Govern-
ment. Discussions at the hJ.ghest level would have resulted in some improve-
ments. In addition, the Bank should have focused more sharply on project



- 33 -
implementation, including procurement, monitoring and evaluation. Provision
should have been made to use external expertise in setting up a unit and
developing a framework for monitoring and evaluating the results of various
programs under the project.
7.06      While the project objectives were sound, the project, by and large,
was too large and complex. Moreover, it would appear that the project tar-
gets were rigid and somewhat unrealistic. The coments raised during the
Board presentation had merits, particularly on the questions of project size
and beneficiaries. Since this was the first integrated rural development
project in the Bank, cutting across various sectors and institutions, it
would have been prudent for the Bank to support a scaled-down project as a
pilot development scheme. With experience, the Government could have emr
barked on an expanded program in the ensuing years.
7.07      Under the project, for the social infrastructure components, the
target groups were villages between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants. The Board had
questioned the validity of excluding villages with less than 500 people, who
were in greater need for improved public amenities and economic benefits. In
actuality, villages under 500 inhabitants should have been included from the
outset. Moreover, the project should have addressed poverty without setting
restrictions in terms of village size. While people were relatively better
off in larger villages, poverty still existed in these villages.
7.08      Concerning the multi-sectoral approach to rural development, the
project does not provide a sufficient basis to draw firm conclusions. It is
difficult to state that the project would have been more effective if
resources were directed toward productive components only, although project
implementation would have been somewhat less problem ridden.
7.09      A number of lessons, listed below, can be drawn from the results of
this project, which can be reflected in future rural development programs:
(a) projects in new areas, especially where experience and knowl-
edge are limited, should be modest in scope and design,
reflecting a pilot scheme;
(b) beneficiary targeting should be flexible in keeping with the
prevailing economic and social conditions in any given areas;
(c) strong emphasis should be placed on monitoring and evaluation
at the very outset of project execution, using external
expertise if required;
(d) a special revolving fund should be set up to accelerate
project implementation and disbursements;
(e)  special provision should be made to monitor on a continuous
basis the quality of the public services (health, education,
etc.) and to provide specialized training, if necessary, to
technical staff providing these services; and



- 34 -
(f) the number of components included under a project should be
ascertained carefully, taking into consideration institutional
capacity and local experience.
April 20, 1984



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DWV8LOPHM8T PROJECT
PROJECT COKPL8TION RZPORT
Project Costs
(U$000)
Item
No.                               197S     1976      1977       1978      1979      1980     1981       1982     Total
IA  Keperansa and P. de            -        -                   47,5      35.0     426.5      195.9      13.6     720,5
Bravo Valleys
IS  RIo Salado Irrig. Dlst.      563.6    490.1    493.9       423.7    268,5      179.0      584.1    131.7   3,134.6
IC  Rio Blanco Irrig. Dist.       716.8    980.5    997.0   1,317.9  1,065.0       486.4      256.9    152.7   5,973.2
ID  Small Scale Hydraulic           -        -        -         -         59.2     807.3   1,052.2      37.2   1,955.9
2A  PLAMEPA                        80.1     97.3    110.4      236,4    287,2      241.7      338.1      86.1   1,477.3
23  PLANPA                        518.4    191.7  1,004.4   2,067.5  2,313.3   2,658.9   2,906.0  1,O15.2  12,675.4
3   Experimental Farms             32,9      -       178,0      -          -         -         -          -       210.9
4   Feeder Roads                1,271.8   1,642.9  2,970.1  3,084.6  1,891.2   3,171.4   5,431.5  2,246.9  21,712.4
S   Marketing                      22.2      25,4      -       133.6    569,1       31,9       -          -       782.2
6   Water Supply Facilities       171.0      -        931.4  1,428.3    738.5   1,356.0   1,413.6    427.8   6,466.6
7   SBevrage Facilities             -        -        260.1    575.6    963,3      325.4      173,7    253.2   2,551,3
8   Elect:ictty Supply            681.4      82,5    941.8      -        428.8   1,459.0      762.3       -     4,355.8
9   Medical  acilities            293,7     208.0    462.4      -        282.9      560.7      -          -     1,807.7
10   Educational Fcilitlee       410,5       -        30o.8    482.3    475.1      663.7   1,039.5    132.1   3,584.0
11   Coumanity Centers              -         -         68.3    132.4    109.4       11,6       62.7      8.1      392.5
12   Project Monitoring              8.6      -         22.1     -          -        78,5      140.1     56,0      305.3
13   Studies                         -        -          -       -          -         -        313.6  1,543,1   1.856.7
TOTAL              4,771.0   3,718.4  8,820.7  9,929.8  9,486.5  12,460.0  14,670.2  6,105,7  69,962.3
Source:  SlAH/Pepaloapsu Caoml..ion/PDRO   July 1983.                                                                                                    X



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Results of Technical Assistance in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
A. Results of Technical Asistance by PLAMEPA In Irrigated Areas
(hectares per district)
Irrigation                                  . Fiscal Year                                    - Average/
District           1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982       Yr.
Rio Salado            -         -       -       1,626    2,384    2,485    2,581    2,105   (2,236)   1
Rio Blanco            -     12,068   12,585  13,203   15,739   16,003   16,064   14,620  (12,961)   w
Subtotal              -      12,068   12,585  14,829   15,739   16,003   16,064   14,620  (14,558)   1
B.  Results of Technical Assistance by PLANPA in Rainfed Areas
(by farm families and hectares)
Calendar Year                                Average/
Item           1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980     1981      1982        Yr.
Farm
Families         6,337    5,332   26,748   1169182   66,640   71,595   28,445  42,450    (45,566)
Hectare         23,926   23,961   82,076   195,800  200,512  203,388  154,290 160,832   (130,598)
Source:  SARH/Papaloapan Commission/PDR; July 1983.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVULOPXINT PROJECT
PROJECT COKPLETION R8PORT
Schedule I - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the          Amount of the                Amount of the          Amount Actually    Actuel Dleburs-
Category                      Loan Allocated      Loan Reallocated After       Loan Reallocated After        Diebursed          umnts/hmaunt
(US$ Equivalent)    Cancellation of US$12u        Cancellation of US$99    (US$ Equivalent)          Allocated
(February 1981)               (August 1982)
(1) Irrigation Syatema                                                                                                                          69
(a) Neperanas  and Palmar de           1,400,000                 500,000                     470.000                 326,346.82
Bravo Valleys
(b) Rio Salado Irrvg. District        3,300,000                1,500,000                   1,220,000               1,124,503.03            92
(c) Rio Ulanco Irrig. District        2,000,000                2,600,000                   2,400,000               2,348,435.90            9J
(d) Small Scale Hydraulic                                      1,200,000                     690,000                 648,682.99            94
Infrastructure
(2) Technical Aaslstance. Salaries
and acquieltion of vehicles.
m*trials and equipn t
(a) Irrigated areas (PLAMIPA)            800.000                 900,000                     900,000                 870,099.52            97
(b) Rainfed area. (PLANPA)            3,500,000                S,900,000                   4,790,000               4,429,360.18            93
(3) Eupereontal terme                      1,500,000                  200,000                      52,000                 51,751,30             99
(4) Fteder toads                           9,120,000               9,000,000                    7,850,000              7,355,761.05             94
(C) marketing Facilities                     500,000                  300,000                     300,000                311,997.52            l04
(6) Vater Supply Facilities                5,500,000               3,600,000                   2,620,000               2,369,439.74             90
(7) Savarage Facilitiec                    1,600,000                1,600,000                   1,280,000              1,201,122.37             94
(a) Electricity supply                     3,300,000               3,000,000                   2,340,000               2,022,415,58             86
(9) Madical facilities                     3,100.000                1,000,000                     640,000                646,853.51            101
(10) Edueational FacIlities                 3,400,000                1,600,000                   1,340,000              1,261,273.77             94
(11) Casomalty Cencers                        900,000                  200,000                     290,000                226,981.93             78
(12) Project Niaitoring                        80,000                  200,000                     143,000                 112,308.47            78
(13) Fepaloepan Basic Study                    -                     2,400,000                     695,No                 672,328.98             75
(14) Unallocated                               10.000                2.300.000                     780.000                   -
LO.00               3.W000.00                   29.000,a00             25.9W0.264.66             90
l~~~~~~~~~~



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Net Benefits
1974
(Before ProJect)  175         1976         1977         1978         1979         1960        1961       1IU2         1I13         194         1115          3S16
A. Net monetit. In Current Prices (Nez$000) a/
lepereaue                      I5          20           25           33           36          43            56          67       353158     127,426'    191,769       225,692      255.692
Ue 5eledo                  12,776       36,995      21,723       26,195       30,432       24,651       19,409       19,174     131,1 3     293,511      337,704      344,169       346U9
ISo Iliac                  68.396      26,047       56,124       94,566      194,645      212,169      196,636     424,263     460,654      360,627    1,022,235    1,076,037     1,076,037
h1ll scale Hydraulie         -            -           -            -            -            -            -           4,747      21,974      67,770      121,794      169,539       t469s.
Plenpe (eatined)          171.531     193.779      256 522      250.574      128.673      517,092       60.441      152.507   1,075,003  .2.022.946    t.M.lt5    2.601.020       3.112.244
TOTAL                   192,720      236.841     336,394      371,368      371,368      353,966      754,131      276,542     601,478   3,392,4a0    4,163,297    4,669,177    4,960,401
S. Ilt lenefite In Conetant fl) fpricesAmsZ3000)
lepereane                     214         214          214          214          214          214          214          214      63,923     127,424      191,769      225,692       255,692 1
ISo leaedo                132,543     165,543      1835,54      3S5,54       365,543      146,218       6,223        70,978    236,478      293,513      337,706      346,669       366411AU9
RIo Bleaeo                119,943     350,575      561,240      788.067    1,393,750    1,248,053      902,690    1,525,294    674,260      640,127    1,022,235    1,076,037     1,07#,037WZ
Smil Scale Hydraulic         -           -            -            -            -            -            -          36,954      50,U62      87.770      121,794      349,539       16,539
Pleaop (Related)        2.450,442   2.422,237   2.565.220    2.066.117       919S093    3.0413716      274.732      544.A44   1.954.551    2.022.SU6    249 79S5   201,02        3.112.2U2I
TOTAL                 2,753,142    2,958,569    3,332,217    3,061,941    2,496,600    4,436,203    1,246,059    2,146,110   3,162,094   3,392,480    4,163,297    4,69,177     4,90,401
7r11         to 11U6 *i uareo reproaent constant 1983 prices.
I|.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yield. of Halor Crops
Year
Crop               1974 a   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982 b/
A. Irrigated
Maize                  1.0     n.a.      2.7     3.4      3.7      3.7     3.3      3.4    3.3
Sugarcane            65.0      n.a.      n.a.    n.a.   65.0    78.0    65.0    65.0   62.0
Sorglhum              2.0      n.a.      4.0     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    4.6    n.a.
Alfalfa              n.a.                 -       -        -        -       -        -      -
Vegetables a          4.0      n.a.      7.8    14.8    15.3    17.1    11.8    16.1   14.6
Oilseeds               1.0      -         -       -         -       -       -        -                        w
Rice                  3.0      n.a.      4.0     6.3      6.4      7.0     6.6      6.7    7.1                %
Fruit Trees          n.a.      n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    4.4      6.2      3.7      1.9    2.8                 1
a/ Appraisal year and figures used in SAR.
b/  Papaloapan Commission's PCR and annexes, dated July 1983.
c/ Primarily tomatoes.
IE



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yields of MaJor Crop. In Rainfed Area. 1974-1982
District
1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981       1982
Puebla
maize     0.9        2.9        2.9       1.2        0.9        1.2       2.1        2 1       0.8
beans     0.5        1.0        0.8       0.4        0.2        0.6       0.7        0.9       0.2
wheat     0.9                                        0.4        0.3       0.8                  0.5
barley    0.9                             0.7        0.9        1.3       1.0
potatoes  5.0                             0.5        6.6                 11.3        9.0       7.4
Oaxaca
maize      1.2       1.1        1.6        1.2       1.1        1.1        1.5       1.6        1.9
beans     0.6        0.3        0.8       0.6        0.5       0.6        0.8        0.6       0.7
rice      1.7        2.0        3.0       1.7        2.5        3.1       2.9        3.0        2.2
peppers   5.0        8.2                  8.5        9.7        8.4       8.7        9.9       10.0
wheat     0.9                              1.4       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.9
barley    0.9                                        0.4        0.6       0.4        0.4        0.9
Veracruz
maize      1.5       1.2        1.8        3.3       1.6        1.5        1.3       1.4        2.0
beans     0.8        0.1        0.3       0.7        0.6        0.7       0.6        0.7       0.9
rice      1.7        1.7        3.1       2.2        2.7        2.5       2.3        2,9        3.4
peppers   5.0        5.0                  7.9        4.5        6.5       5.4
potatoes  2.0                                        4.7        5.9       7.0        6.0
Note:  The project area Is distributed as f-Ilows: 51% in Oaxaca, 37% in Veracrux and 12% in Puebla.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Rate of Return Analysis
(Mex$000)
- - 957        1976          1977          1978          1979 _        95          USro!   1       952         1983           1984 -195                   13   --       1w2023
Investesnt Coots in
Constant 1983 Prices    49I,900         525,340    1,046,737     1,166,671       793,694       a29,454       923,461       314,934         -            -             -             -                -
Infe eantal. San  it. In
Conetant 1963 Prices    205,427        579,075       303,799    (256,542)    1,683,061    (1,467,013)  (605,032)           428,952       639,338    1,410,155     1,916,035    2,227,259    2,227,259
Rate o  Return  19.6S
lot proeent value as X of preeent cost 1152.
%wttching value *nalplts  Indic4tO  that al-12x, even it Incremntal benefits would be reduced by 54s.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Investments
1975          1976          1977           1978          1979           1980         1981           1982
Investment (in '000 US$)
Eepersncs                                                 -             -             -            47.5          35.0          428.5          195.9           13.6
Rio Salado                                             563.6          490.1         493.9        423.7          268.5           179.0         584,1         131.7
Rio  slanco                                             716.8         980.5         997.0       1,317.9       1,065.0          464.4          256.9         152.7
Small Scale Hydraulic                                     -             -             -             -            59.2          807.3        1,052.2          37.2
Planpa                                                  80.1           97.3         110.4         236.4         287.2          241.7          338.1          86.1
Planps                                                 518.4          191.7       1,0n4.4      2,067.5        2,313.3        2,658.9        2,906.0       1,015.2
Feeder Roada                                         1,271.8        1,642,9       2.970.1      3,084.6        1,891.2        3,171.4       5,431.5        2,248.9
Total investment                                        3,150,7       3,402.5       5,575.8       7,177.6       5,919.4         7,951.2      10,773.7       3,685.4
Adjustment factor a/                                      ,665          ,677           .733         .865           .965           1.045        .995           1.000
Adjusted Investment                                     4,736.8       5,025.8       7,606.8       8,297.8       6,134.1         7,608.8      10,827.8       3,685.4          1
Total investments in current prices
(in '000 mhx.$)                                      3,935,2        5,253.4      12,584.6    16,336,2        13,496.2       18,248.0      25,656.9       17,321,4
Total investment in constant 1983 prices
('000 Kex.$)                                         491,900        525,340    1,048,717   1,166.871          793.894        829,454        923,461       314,934
a/ International inflation.
H
H



A tiz~~~~~~~~A
sjsfl  jJ&. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~E Pm
a.  - -~~~~~~~~~~Moae.wl
~~~.r~~~K
-  -                                                       La~~~~~~--  --   A
M. ~  ~     a
IW ~     ~      -    -    *-~i.,a c 



IBRD 11078
MEXICO                                        MAY 1974
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RACRUZ                                   PROJECT I - PAPALOAPAN BASIN
Project Area and Banking Network
Znmt )  abbbrrsd11ditntieftcjuctla      -    Rit
-Pq uaip0 River waEin b eudwy              I
FPvo ddl Tow  stDMs of dpper aU                              d Ower Bain              SeSond ry roodS
---- S2mUr Uoitoiou wd; ulreumlionimte
R~~~~~~~~~~ma Z  S wG SYSTEMr
U   {  J 5   K    't                *   ~~~~~~~~BanxArcoh -W                              Wes,iUdstLn
A   R II Agraopelb                         Ste cOpil
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P"erMnof                                    i      ,Sd boundprim
Gulf of Mexico
IC .4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Aculo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Gl
--- n \W\g/  -.,*  R   , R  g  / G  _   \               9TWtIxli D~TJUXTLA        -
mjmi                                                                                 '-  Papaln..nn
o  Narcnos ~~~~~~~~~~~                                          US -muf
< xifi > ~Tres AjoCHriu  / 
<X  *  Monsol < DIZ7 sJ .g.x>°~~~~~~~~Lione
<   T ux T E p E Ll m orlQ !s~~~h,~                          - .W< \ -                                                -0
\       C-s~~dia o<sXIlbAul                                                            e
~' ~Juore7 \ \ 9Juarez         1       I
,        y    \t ~~~ ~~Mhoa                                 D fy / Rdrgulr               bs       *                 c
)   >   Pkip V rxnte   ,               J~ ~       ~ ~ ~~~~~ua    
\    O \              %              fflf    ) ) \                    @    >wsCaF<f etol
----mdeJu ~   ~     ~     9 .]-UmIo /eih                                                                    -   /
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VozLe                                                                            do s Aq, uasr
,; '   l et                                  . :- ,~~~~~~~~9  T' ' .  da  '', ."irr.'-- ,               za .
0~~~~~~0 \                                                                               >c   
} -, . P, f-,-  -ost, ,  Lo O ,''  4a1Ze
la_                                                         w _ _*                                   O       \J-8  
X o _pr. iW 



se                                                                           -0 -7-
P U E B L A CVE R A CR
C luddad 
t- Was~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ge*                                                  
§e~~~~~~~~~~~d    M  v                      Me Bi n
0-  If    ~          ~         - 
pja la AIN,   =J                        OF         * ru *
SIc so eal Son MTlws                                                Pro n   *a-     'Z  '
y-  I    l's V ila      EC.   )' rP
.sc   *M.Piifoe
-       -                                       IL"
ShEAnacd        noepomad\tRt,,B,.99o                 T       E     * P            Tecflh.1p.    j 
5eoOlSboDJ| Up  R  w                1               il *  XXttTOO  Ws
\  iB   {    >    (         /         otzeon37~~~~~ ~~~~~           Cannonon    PAH ete    *cblo EIS |1
colopec                                            T'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*ewR~PpI
\  \        \   +       s                      \~~~~~~~~s,,~,.    (-~  sleapk Melbllo. *EClsl P _ebbp-
Simcaft.b.011=~~Hfl. ~ ~                                              C.yotn.
R  t  o                    V                    .'            \&4'~~ CJ;erda:a   t.tib Alt
9   SonJn roie od n.&    _oo       I   oneil   .'            Tepeesloc Snl olna 
iel Chi ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ,        CRa
)  Oe>t>4 \|\ r~~~~~~~~~~~iolbuc                              Le
;|Son Joeono                    C       onszt[ kV
S'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
OA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0;S InD 20  30    40  -060  70 0
SasomSeS M.  I    iTI d h-        1 IMv; 
ICIL~~~~~~~~~~OME155OAXAC                                                         Jee
,r                             ,9,7. .                                                   .  . .0pd 
*SP C   10   20   30   40   50  1
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PW                                                             SP l  zES 
-o1
9Et                                                                                    To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



IBRD 11001
g --:  : ------                   --MEXMEXICO                                                                         MA  1974
'VERACRU-                                          INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
-VERACRUZ                                           PROJECT I - PAPALOAPAN BASIN
POPULATION
i Ap   Z       K -                                        Populatlons ftofwnh                        Popahopon River Bian boundary
|   ----                            *~~~~~~~~              ~         ~ 500-999  - -~Division of pperand lower basin
odel Toro                                        1000-2499                               Rivers
f   2500-4999                                Major roads
5 OO0 orniaore                              Secondary roods
(2.400   lages with lIs                    Secondary rods under construil Ion
than 500Inhabitants araerod
not haw                                   Rairoads
P,cdr.t       j rIooI..1vnrode                         *   State crpl-l                             State boudaries
AIVCO R                            Z=d.                \                                                 Gulf of Mexico
f-_  SVro #    E¢"pr C.#          Iddla Li >w
5   |   ch                              ~~~~~~~~~~Tiocotlpan@  Zacll   aL kt do  ri
_    z   /          CosomeloofaE-                                        / %   so.,r A
Enl               ~~~~~A....                    0Ca.1.        L... Wb0zs.M    1la 
-> Hqo}|m                                 Santiago Tu1 ;a   5   San Andrea       , .
-riop-o"Sn..    OVciri
- - =s_ _ atCel.r \9 Aten~~~P-c- Tlcopll j-JT  
--evolonelu   _/g;a \   \oale                                        coLlre-    1.loao.
(,UdL4.n4      Clultopo.n                        ,      )         @     /    RodriguezClar    ,o>              a     ,w                               Toca Co otZ~ oIC0
/ MPuebl@V@o ~~~~~~~~~~~~i 7s/   o                            /coyco
j4Jecelere  XL  \   '        /                         Cd Ccerob cebmd_ Pma
Iea          ,            1.  S. Elog"o Cotl.o       ..'Za9l.I                                \           Co \       I 
-->^L   SonPeSoOrfinF      -- -            -                 S. 1,eo.frolo..,o.K                 ^           , 
T~~~~~~oane *Tnc-ios  °- /5
8.1gm    0 *l__ _ / f o nfolpomrc r--_    _n
Ld.IopOzBo Yalroo |  _
i_C jonpr _ Zpaltep c  
ZcTop oS  -o
-        .hoitotop..            a. -mcob                                                                                                Gullr  of  ;
5..an_od    TljhJ.rCnu.lNe                                                                                          d Au   fl
ITV *"4^gXmqa.golon  S-revon               J       ~        ~       C                                 Mq      E IO4
;.ui..                                                                                       ° 8.400  _..c Ceo  -o                      POPO_ Itl
-4Psr%_                                                                                                    La L - _                                    o.;,_9 l o 
rr~~~ua Li-M  Om.                                   Rodriguez                              D~~ 5CC LOo ..
So4 N            AAc&i






