CIRCULATING COPY
F uSE  copy     TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1515-ME
'REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS,
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES -
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(PAPALOAPAN BASIN)
OctQber 16, 19 74
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit   -   Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00             Mex$12.50
Mex$1.0         =   US$0008
Mex$1 million       US$80,000
Fiscal Year     -   January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT I (PAPAIDAPAN BASIN)
1         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S. A., with the guarantee of the United
Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$50 million to help finance a
project for integrated rural development. The loan would have a term of
25 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        "The Economy of Mexico: A Basic Report?t (192-ME) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on June 26, 1973. It was designed to provide
both a long-term perspective on the Mexican economy and a framework for the
assessment of short run trends. An economic mission visited Mexico in March
1974 and its report,dated September 27, I974,has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. The mission's conclusions are reflected in the discussion which
follows. Annex I contains country data sheets.
3.        For the three most recent of the six decades since the Revolution
of 1910, the success of the Mexican economic system, measured in terms of
GDP growth, has been outstanding. Since 1940, the annual average growth
rate has exceeded 6 percent. And from the mid-1950s to 1972 Mexico was
among the few countries in the developing world to combine a sustained high
rate of growth with monetary and balance of payments stability. The average
annual rate of inflation was less than 5 percent and the dollar value of
the peso was maintained at the level fixed in 1954.
Rapid and sustained growth was the product of successful policies
affecting the mobilization and use of both private and public sector resources.
The role of Government in promoting economic growth was concerned on one
hand with the development of strategic infrastructure and major utility
industries and on the other with policies which featured, in the agricultural
sector, the development of price support, import control and agrarian reform
measures, and in the industrial sector external protection and the provision
of fiscal incentives.
5.        The sectoral allocation of public and private investment was
reflected in a changing structure of output and employment. This featured
the growth of manufacturing industry and the relative decline of agriculture;
the latter, however, continued to be the chief source of employment and
accounted in 1970 for 39 percent of the economically active population.



- 2 -
6.        However, given rapid population growth at an annual rate of 3.4
percent over the last decade, economic expansion has not generated sufficient
employment opportunities to absorb the labor force which has recently been
growing at about 3.0 percent per year. In 1973 it was estimated that about
40 percent of the labor force was engaged in either marginal occupations -
relatively unproductive and hence poorly paid - or was totally unemployed.
Partly as a consequence of rapid population growth but also as a result of
the pattern of distribution of incomes and assets in the Mexican economy,
the strategy which succeeded in promoting rapid growth was not camparably
successful in spreading its benefits. The incidence of poverty has been
reduced. But the differentials between rich and poor, both between people
and places, have probably increased over time.
7.        There was, until recently, little evidence (apart from the continuation
of the land reform program begun in earnest during the Cardenas regime in the
1930s) that Government policies were much concerned with such programs. By
1970, however, it was apparent that a revised economic strategy - one which
would focus on the improvement of the living conditions of the poor - was
required. It seemed to be understood that this goal should not be pursued
at the expense of rapid growth or of the mone-tary and balance of payments
stability which appeared to be sine qua non of sustained economic expansion.
The last three years have demonstrated the Government's determination to
develop such a strategy. The events and trends of this period have also
revealed some of the constraints to doing so.
S0        Among the progressive measures introduced since 1970 are a revision
of the Agrarian Reform Law and a new Federal Water Law, both of 1971, and
increases in the allocation of bank credit to the rural sector (see paragraph
30)- These measures are all responsive to the needs of the rural sector and
demonstrate the Government's concern to confront them. Another initiative in
a similar category was the introduction in 1972 of a 5 percent payroll tax to
finance a new housing program for workers in the lower-middle income groups,
It is clear, however, in the light of the experience of the last three years,
that neither the needs of the poor nor those of the public sector enterprises
(on which the growth of the economy as a whole partly depends) can be met
without the mobilization of additional public sector resources.
9.        In 1971, after the economy had begun to show signs of stress in
1970, the Government took restraining action in order to preserve monetary
and balance of payments stability, and the GDP growth rate fell from the
1960-70 decade average of 7.1 percent to only 3.7 percent while prices
increased by 4.8 percent. In 1972 renewed economic expansion was stimulated
by public sector expenditures and the GDP growth rate rose to 7.5 percent
while prices increased (in terms of the GDP deflator) by slightly more than
5 percent. In 1973 a further substantial increase in public expenditures



- 3 -
was largely financed by recourse to increased internal and external
borrowing. Private savings mobilized through the financial intermediaries,
which in the past provided non-inflationary internal financing for budget
deficits, fell below the levels of previous years. Consequently, in 1973
the Government's internal borrowing had a significant effect upon money
supply, which increased by 24 percent during the year. This expansion
coincided with and was partly responsible for an acceleration in the rate
of domestic price increases. These, however, also reflected changes in
internat.ional prices, the impact of which was especially serious because
of a poor harvest in 1972 and the resulting need to import basic foodstuffs.
Consumer orices increased by 22 percent and wholesale prices by 25 percent
during 1973, while the deficit on the.current account of the balance of
payments increased by 63 percent over 1972.
10,       In the light of these trends the Government and the monetary
authorities began to take action to stabilize the economy in the middle of
last year. First, monetary policy was tightened from June 1973 onwards.
Second, in an effort to mobilize additional domestic resources, electricity
rates were increased by an average of almost 30 percent in October 1973
and hydrocarbons prices were increased by an average of almost 100 percent
in December 1973. In aggregate, these measures were expected to yield the
equivalent of almost 2 percent of 1974 GDP for public sector revenueso
Thirdj the planned increase in real expenditures in the 1974 budget (approved
in December) was very modest, while the planned use of resources emphasized
the more intensive use of existing fixed investment on one hand and new
investment in productive sectors on the other. Consistent with a restrictive
monetary program and with restraint in foreign borrowing, the planned
fiscal deficit for 1974 was lower in nominal terms than the final deficit
for 19730
1%        In the light of the performance of the economy during the first
half of the year it is evident that the program has been successful in
certain respects but less so in others. While the rate of inflation is now
expected to be in the range of 15 - 18 percent in 197h, this is a
suibstantial improvement over 1973 and should not be markedly out of line
with that in Mexico's major trading partners.   Some of the inflationary
pressure this year has been derived from a general increase in wages
negotiated at the end of 1973 and the actual rate in 1974 will also be
influenced by the impact of further wage increases negotiated in September
this year,
.1.2.     In certain other respects however -the stabilization program
appears to have been ILess successful. First, the fiscal deficit will be
considerably higher than was planned and wi.ll probably be in the same
nominal order of magnitude as in  1973 although it will be lower in terms of a
ratio of GDP. Second, the current account deficit in the balance of pay-
ments will also be higher than was expected, partly as a consequence of



- 4-
thoi need to import petroleum and petroleum products at high international
nrices and partly because the rate of real growth in the econormy will
exceed the level of 4.5 percent which was originally anticipated; the
current, estimate for GDP growth is in the order of 6.0 percent.
13.       This impact notwithstanding, Mexico has been relatively less
affected bhv the world energy crisis than many other developing countries.
Some 95 percent of the countrvys energy requirements are satisfied by
hldrocarbons, -t.he balance being supplied from hydro resources; about 10
nercent cf total hydrocarbons requirements have been imported in recent
- s.  "he hyc-dtrocarbons import bill for 1973 was U $283 million; in 1974
.   r- le   -aue of hvcirocarbons imports is estimated at US$450 million.
`ai; ,'i -ure woll2d have been much higher but for the development of new
.'Jee.s in Chianas andl Tabasco which were formerly expected to come on-
stream in 1Y75 but have done so this year. The impact of the energy crisis
on the balance of payments will thus be attenuated by the discovery of
t,hese unusually productive fields.
-i!h.     In the light of the above it appears that the task of
stabi] Iszation has proven to be extremely difficult.  The government and
the monetary authorities have nevertheless stressed their determination
no restore price and balance of payments stability and are considering the
introduction of' substantial fiscal reforms before the end of 1974. The
uackage of measures under contemplation is expected to generate the
eauival ent of around 2.0X of 1975 GDP. The government hes also announced a
r?og?'  9 price controls.  This program does not aim at rigid controls, but
-athher at limiting price increases to what can be justified by increases in the
cost. of nroduction. In the case of some staple foods, where the retail prices
nave b ezn held down by government subsidy, the control levels are sufficiently
--I, rh 00. exnenditures for subsidies are likely to be reduced rather than
-nc eaisej.
1V.       As of December 31, 1973 Mexico's outstanding disbursed public debt
was 113`.3 billion of which the IBIM share was US$808 million.  For 1974
net public medium and long-term external borrowing is estimated at US$1.3
biillion, an increase from US$1.1 billion in 1973 and uS$0.5 billion in
197'2.  '!The high ievels of borrowing in 1973 and 1974 reflect large public
sector (leficits brought on by the failure to increase public revenues
sufficiently and, in 1973, the need to inicreaise international reserves
despit,e a turn around in short term capital. movements. Borrowing in 1974
hals alLso been severely affected by the need to import, food and fuel at
uecord prices.  In 1975 there should be some relief as newly discovered
oil. fie:Lds and normal demand/supply relationships for food reduce imports
of these items.
Lcb.      Annex I, Page 4 shows that 41.3 percent of public external capital
contlacted, in the period 1968-72 was obtained from private banks. This was
the largest single source. International organizations accounted for the



- 5 -
next largest share (22.2 percent) and the World Bank for 14.7 percent of
total commitments. Annex I, Page 4 also shows the sectoral allocation of
public external capital and reveals that power, transport and manufacturing
were the dominant sectors. In view of Mexico's good reputation as a
creditworthy borrower, it continues to receive public external capital on
reasonable terus.
17.       The level of net public external borrowing of US$1,300 million
for 1974 is consistent with Mexico's debt service capacity. As a result
particularly of longer maturities on borrowing from financial institutions,
Mexico's external public debt service ratio has declined over the last
ieveral years and was 17.3 percent in 1973. If the average terms in the
future were to be about the sane as those which have been recently obtained,
the debt service ratio would remain well below 25 percent during the
remainder of the 1970s. Given the uncertainties in the world capital markets,
however, future borrowing terms might deteriorate. This possibility underlines
the importance of the fiscal measures now being considered by the Government.
The Bank's share in public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1973
was in the order of 14 percent while its share in the corresponding debt
service was about 10 percent. These ratios are not expected to change
significantly during the remainder of the 1970s.
18.       Mexico thus remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms provided that the Government continues to follow prudent monetary and
fiscal policies. Its recent actions in the field of public sector prices
and the prospective fiscal measures for 1975 suggest that it intends to
do so.
19.       In order to adequately meet its financing needs to assure continued
growth with equity in the future, Mexico will have to both strengthen its
fiscal effort and supplement that effort with substantial external borrowing.
Given that the country's diversified industrial structure is capable of
supplying a good part of its capital goods requirements, some local cost
financing by external agencies is necessary. Bank loans in sectors like
power, highways and irrigation are traditionally tied to the foreign
exchange cost of projects. I consider some local currency financing in
other sectors to be justified, especially for high priority and institutionally
complex projects like those for integrated rural development which offer
substantial economic and social benefits in hitherto deprived areas and which
call for strong institutional support from the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
20.       With the US$25 million loan for airports development signed on
June 28, 1974, the Bank has made 37 loans to Mexico for a total of US$1,838
million, net of cancellations. At the end of August 1974, the Bank held
US$1.5 billion including US$0.7 billion not yet disbursed. Most of these
loans have been made for power, roads and agriculture. Execution of Bank-
financed projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. However, the



-6-
National Railways have not succeeded in achieving the operating ratio targets
establiihed under the Second Railway Project (Io 824-ME of May 1972), partly
because the required tariff increases have not been introduced, and partly
because of unexpected labor and fuel Cost increases. Schedales for a new
tariff structare, including substantial tariff increases,, have been however
completed anid actions on this matter are being considered by the Government.
21.       IPC has made eleven investment commitments in Mexico amounting to
US$54.3 million, of which as of itugust 31, 1974, US$35o5 million had been sold,
terminated or cancelled0 The US$18.8 million held by the Corporation consist
of US$16.7 million in loans and US$201 million in equity. Annex II contains
a summary statment of Bank loans and IFC commitments as of August 31, 1974
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects0
22.       During the recent past, Bank lending in Mexico has become increasingly
diversified as activities have been expanded and more closely related to
emerging bottlenecks in Mexico's development. While the fiscal year 1974
lending of US$309 million still centered on the traditional sectors of
industry, water supply, transportation and agriculture, a number of these
projects were given a new emphasis0 Thas the Las Truchas steel mill is
expected not only to further Nexico s industrial growth in an efficient manner,
but also to support the Govermentgs program of regional industrial decentral-
ization. The Fourth Agriculture and Livestock Credit Project is designed not
only to help expand Mexico's agricultural production by increasing the flow of
institutional credit along with technical services, but also to make some of
the hitherto neglected small farmers benefit from modern production technkblogy.
A sizeable component of the loan is therefore specifically earmarked for low-
income farmers0 Another example is the Mexico City Water Supply Project which
helped create a specialized institution (Valley of Mexico-Water Commission) for
efficient management of scarce water resources, cutting across existing
functional and administrative boundaries, and dhich supports a policy of
relating water charges broadly to the consumers' ability to pay while recovering
the full cost of investment. The Rio Sinaloa and Panuco projects of last year
were the first in a new series of irrigation projects which, in addition to their
productiontobjective, will also attempt to broaden the distribution of the
project bmnefits to as large a eegment of mnaU farmers as possible.
23.       Traditional projects will continue to form part of Bank lending to Mexico,
although in a declining proportion in comparison with the past. These projects
will have the triple objective of closing the foreign resource gap to help
sustain Mexico's high rate of economic growth, assisting the Government to
meet the increasing demands for no-cial expenditures without cutting back on
essential productive investment, and of supporting the Government in its
efforts to create efficient institutions capable of increasing public savings.
We are attempting however to turn our attention increasingly to projects
with direct social implications. In addition to integrated rural development,
we are exploring the possibilities of assisting the Governmentgs efforts to
expand agricultural and technical education, and to foster regional develop-
ment and urban decentralization, As has to be expected, such projects
require a sabstantial lead time and intensive preparation because of



- 7 -
their large technical assistance and institution-building components;
but the initiative has been taken and it is most encouraging to note the
high priority the Government has assigned to these fields.
24.       The integrated rural development project for the Papaloapan
Basin is indicative of the new social and economic orientation of the
Mexican Government and the Bank's readiness to support this policy,
Originally, this project was perceived as a limited test case for strategies
to bring Mexico's rural poor, many of whom live in similar conditions to
those in the Papaloapan Basin, closer to the mainstream of Mexico's rapid
economic development. Energetic action taken by the Government and the
existence of a capable Papaloapan Basin Commission has however permitted
the project scope to be enlarged. At the same time, in a wider context, a
separate, ably-led organizational structure has been set up under the
Ministry of the Presidency which will implement a nation-wide integrated
rural development program (paragraph 31). The Baik has given intensive
technical support to the preparation of this program too and cooperated
with the Government in setting the stage for a series of rural development
projects. Following the present Papaloapan Project, we hope to have
another integrated rural development project ready for your consideration
in the first quarter of 1975.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
25.       Mexico's rural sector, defined statistically as the population
living in villages with less than 2,500 inhabitants, has undergone little
socio-economic change since the Revolution of 1910. Agriculture is still
the main income source of about 40 percent of the population and the
rural society is still polarized into a small, highly efficient class of
agricultural entrepreneurs and a large class of traditional peasants. These
peasants have been bypassed by the rapid economic growth of the post-
revolution period, live in primitive social conditions, barely participate
in the market economy and subsist on a modicum of food production from
their small farms.
26.       In spite of the far reaching Agrarian Reform which led to the
redistribution of nearly half of Mexico's land, one percent of the farmers
still controlled more than 30 percent of total cropland in 1960 and 5 percent
of the farmers in public irrigation districts more than 40 percent of the
area in 19653 The rapidly growing rural population has, on the other hand,
led to excessive farm fragmentation in many parts of the country and a
landless agricultural labor force of close to 2 million. The skewed land
distribution is reflected in the distribution of rural production and,
consequently, income. It is estimated that h percent of all farms produced
over 50 percent of agricultural output and commanded nearly 65 percent of
market sales while, conversely, 85 percent of the farmers contributed only
¶2 percent to the marketable surplus.



-8-
27.       Rural poverty is a consequence both of shortage of cultivable
land and lack of public services to use the scarce resource base more
efficiently. Modern farm methods and production inputs are applied only
sparsely and, as a recent Mexican study indicates, not more than 13 percent
of the farmers used insecticides, 16 percent improved seeds and 22 percent
fertilizerso Low farming standards are not surprising since until recently
a mere 5 percent of the farmers received technical assistance. The
promotion of farmer organizations received equally little support9 which
aggravated the structural weaknesses of community administration and limited
the interaction with external groups.
2`1.      While past Government agricultural policies did little to mitigate
the problems of rural poverty, public irrigation investment has laid the
foundation for a modern, sophisticated, commercial agricultural sector which
had, until lately, managed to satisfy the demand of a rapidly growing
population and to earn the foreign exchange needed to industrialize.
However, since 1965, agricultural dynamics have slowed down and growth rates
have fallen from the remarkable 6 percent average over nearly thlree decades
to a rate below the growth of domestic consumvtion, requiring record food
imports over the last two years. The Government has responded to the problea
of agriculture and drastically changed the previous policies. With the twin
objectives of production growth and income.redistribution, the Government
has substantially increased the budget allocation for the rural sector in.
absolute terms and relative to other sectors.
29..      Indications are that the recent large increases in irrigation
investmeitl and manifold expansion of the credit and agricultural extension
programs are gradually becoming effective. It is expected that the 1974
harvest will surpass recent production trends in spite of a sev-ere drauight
in the northwest, which affecteci some of the most productive agricultural
areas. Pari passu with primarily production-oriented measures, the Goverlnment
has also taken steps to ensure that the earning and livillg conditions of the
rural poor are improved. These steps include the enactment of the new
Agrarian Reform and Water Laws, mentioned earlier, instructions to the
banking systen to increase the flow of its resources to small farmers and
ejidatarios, and the formulation of an integrated rural developmnent program0
30..     The new Agrarian Reform Law is directed to strengthening the
legal and institutional basis of the ejido - a form of collective land
tenure based on usufruct rather than ownership which is representative of
four-fifths of Mexico's farmers - and to transforming it into an efficient
production unit. The new Water Law reduces the maximum permitted holdings
in new irrigation districts from 100 ha. per owner to 20 ha. The excess land
is to be distributed to small farmers and landless families. While the new
ceiling is still large enough to permit the application of modern production
methods, it will significantly change the distribution incidence of
new irrigation projects. Similarly, the agricultural credit program,



- 9 -
supported by the Bank-financed Fourth Agricultural and Livestock Project,
seeks to gear credit instituions more to the needs of the small farmers
and to enable them to benefit from modern production technology.
31.      The integrated rural development program is the most ambitious
and far reaching Government effort to overcome the stagnation;'of the rural
sector. The program - a combination of productive and social investment
with technical and promotional assistance - holds the promise of a synergistic
effect upon resources and public support of sufficient magnitude to break
through some of the constraints affecting rural development. The program is
being executed under the umbrella of the Ministry of the Presidency which has
been given authority for the planning, coordination and supervision of all
Government activities integrated in the program. The program started to fully
operate last year with initial expenditures of nearly US$100 million in 40
micro-regions with close to three million inhabitants. The program is expected
to expand to more than 150 micro-regions, and outlays of more than US$800
million are planned over the next three years. To efficiently handle this
enormous task and to promote grass roots development, a three tier organization
on a national, state and local level with delegated responsibilities is being
set up. This organizational structure represents a break through for Mexico
which has traditionally been characterized by a high degree of economic and
administrative centralization.
PART V - THE PROJECT
32      The proposed project would be the first Bank operation for integrated
rural development in Mexico. Previous Bank lending in the rural sector has
been largely production-oriented and consisted of four loans for agricultural
credit and six for irrigation. The most recent credit operation however had a
special component for low income producers, and the two most recent irrigation
loans were aimed at benefitting mainly small farmers.
33.     The Mexican Government had asked the Bank for assistance in preparing
a rural development project in the Upper Papaloapan Basin as early as 1971.
Much effort, both from the Ministry of Hydraulic Resources and the Papaloapan
Commission as well as from the FAO and the Bank, went into the preparation of
this project, which has also undergone many changes from the original to the
present concept. A first FAO/Cooperative Program mission visited the Basin in
May 1972 and a second in February 1973. The appraisal took place in two stages.
The main mission visited the Basin in November/December 1973 and a small follow-
up mission in February 1974.
Objectives and Stratezy
3X4.    The Project has two principal objectives.  One, to increase
agricultural production and improve the income and employment levels of the



- 10 -
rural poor in the Basin; and, two, to improve their quality of life. The
strategy designed to achieve the project objectives conbines directly
productive, productive support and social infrastructure components acting
together to promote a balanced social and economic development of the target
group. The special virtue of integrated projects of the type now before you
lies in that they offer the structures and patterns of causation which
will maximize the benefits from each of the complementary project components.
Thus, support infrastructure and technical and organizational assistance are
designed to make the directly productive investment fully effective. Similarly,
the provision of social infrastructure will help to transform the increasing
purchasing power resulting from the Project into improvements in the quality
of life of the beneficlaries;  an essential condition to keep the peasants
receptive to technological and social change and motivated to work the land
to the best of their capabilities. At the same time, the Project will provide
inducements tc the beneficiaries to invest part of the incremental income in
productive ways, thus, hopefully, setting up a self-generating process of growth.
In short, what the Papaloapan Project aims at are economically sound and
actively involved cormmunities of small farmers.
35.       While the investment mix for the Project has been determined for the
project area as a whole, individual community investment plans, except for the
location of the irrigation investment and experimental farms, have not yet been
laid out in detail. The Papaloapan Commission will have flexibility to tailor
these plans according to the cooperation, aspiration and potential of individual
communities and make modifications as the project evolves. However, investment
limits for individual project components have been specified which can only be
exceecded with Bank approval. These limits, expressed in investment costs
per capita (e.g. electricity, water systems) or units of productive agricultural
land (feeder roads), form part of the conceptual framework of the project and
are designed to ensure that the individual components are balanced in their
relation to each other and to the economic base of the villages. Similarly,
the required service charges from the beneficiaries for piped water systems
and sewerage are not only intended to recover the investment costs but also
to act as an automatic screening device for public resource allocation, (i.e.
these components would only be provided if the beneficiaries are willing to
pay) and to provide a direct link between the productive investment and the
provision of social infrastructure.
36.       The production component will 9ocus on small irrigation projects
and intensive technical assistance for both irrigated and rainfed agriculture.
Whi- e the productive support components are directly related to and justified by
the expected incremental production from the project, the criteria for providing
social infrastructure would be to raise the standard in the Basin close to the
national average provided that the beneficiaries are willing to pay appropriate
service charges and, within that, to give priority to areas for which directly
productive investment is planned. Investment in social infrastructure would
be linked with assistance to build-up community organizations capable of
operating and maintaining project works as well as of collecting and
administering project related user charges. Since it is intended to reach as



large a segment of the rural poor as possible, more advanced infrastructure
components like household water connections and sewerage link-ups would
only be constructed if the beneficiaries agree to pay their full cost
(Section 3.08 (b), Guarantee Agreement)
37.       The target group of the project is roughly one million people -
about half the Papaloapan Basin population - located in villages
with between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants. Villages above the benchmark size
are, in general, already provided with adequate social infrastructure and
have an economic basis with problems different from those of the rural
poor. Furthermore, the average per capita income in those villages is
nearly three tines the income of the target group. On the other hand,
villages with less than 500 inhabitants, while having virtually the same
income levels and facing the same difficulties as the target group, have
not been included in the project for reasons of economic efficiency. Their
dispersed location would entail prohibitively high costs, even for a
modicum of social infrastructure and productive investment; this, the
Government decided, would not be justified for the moment in view of more
pressing demands on the countryts financial and adcinistrative resourceso
The present operational concept is, therefore, to create viable organizational
units in the target group which can economically provide the required services,
and which can function as growth poles to absorb part of the migrants from
the smaller villages.
Project Description
36.       The Papaloapan Basin, located southeast of Mexico City, covers an
area of 46,500 sq. km, of which 21,000 sq. Ion are in the lower and 25,500 sq. km
are in the upper Basin. The Basin population slightly exceeds 2 million people,
approximately three quarters of whom have incomes which place them among the
poorest 40 percent of the population. The project would consist of:
Directly Productive Components
(a) Irrigation development of
(i) 2,400 ha. in the Esperanza-Palmar de Bravo Valley through deep
wells, conplementary canals, land levelling and some sprinkler
irrigation;
(ii) 61100 ha. in the Rio Salado Valley through complete lining of
main canals and laterals in the existing 3,600 ha. of the upper
gorge and a new distribution and drainage system of 2,500 ha.
in the lower gorge;
(iii) 16,00o ha. in the Rio Blanco irrigation district through
completion of all canals, laterals and drains, metering gates
and land leveling. At present, only 7,500 ha. of the district
area are irrigated each year.



- 12 -
An irrigation district would be established in the Esperanza-Palmar
de Bravo Va-lley and the existing irrigation district in the upper Rio
Salado would incorporate the expansion in the lower valley according
to the provisions of the 1971 Federal Water Law, while the status of
t.he Rio Blanco district would remain unchanged.
(b) Plai de ilejoramiento Parcelario (PLAI4EPA), an intensive technical.
service to farmers in irrigated areas which would train them in
appropriate methods of water use, land preparation, combination of tech-
nical inputs and the timing of all operations;
(c)  Plan Papaloapan for Rainfed Areas (PLANPA), an intensive technical
assistance package to farmers in 100,000 ha. of rainfed agriculture0
PILAIPA would promote adoption of new technologies through massive dis-
semination of information, widespread use of demonstration plots on the
farmers' own fields, and through the provision of credit and timely
supply of improved seeds, fertilizers and spray materials0
Productive Suport
(a) 'Th'ree experimental farms for applied crop research with concentrration
or rair)mfed agriculture, would be established in different ecological
regions of the Basin to upgrade existing information on the VarietieS
of crops which can be grown in the Basin, fertilizer responses, and
timing of planting0  The experimental fanrs will be coordinated with
rLAMEPA and PLANPA;
(5a)  1,`40 km of feeder and access roads would be construct.ed to serve,
primarily, the areas under agricultural development.
(c)  12' r-ural marketing facilities would be provided to market project
relateI agricultural inputs and outputs as well as basic consumntLon
goods.
Social Ifr-rastructure
(a)  Water supply would be provided to 260 villages with 310,000 irnhabitants
covering all villages larger than 2,500 inhabitants that presently lack
these services, 50 percent of the villages between 1,000 and 2,500 and 35
percent of the villages between 500 and 1,000 inhabitants0   Smaller
villages would generally rely on water hydrants and larger villages on piped
water s,rstems.  Piped water systems, however would only be considered if the
beneficiaries are willing to cover the   full cost.
(b)  sewerage is only foreseen for twelve larger villages in view of
the relatively high per capita cost;



- 13 -
(c) electricity would be installed in about 106 villages with 137,000
inhabitants, including 50 percent of the villages above 2,500 inhabitants,
25 percent of villages with a population between 1,000 and 2,500 and 12
percent of villages with a population between 500 and 1,000;
(d) health centers would be built in all villages above 1,500 inhabitants
and in 50 percent of the villages between 1,000 and 1,500 inhabitants
benefitting a total population of 325,000'
(e) 1,200 classrooms for primary education and workshops would be built
in all villages of between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants to accomodate 60,000
pupils. While only a few villages have workshops at present, most of the
classrooms would be additions to existing schools or would replace
buildings damaged by the 1973 earthquake in the upper Basin;
(f)  140 conmmunity centers would be constructed in villages of between
500 and 1,000 inhabitants with a population of 110,000.  The community
centers would be connected with water hydrants and provide premises not
only for villages meetings but also for washing clothes on slabs, for
public showers, and for toilets.
39.       In the hope that the concept and Qrgaoization of the Project might be
replicated in other parts of the country, a monitoring unit would be established
within SRH to measure the impact of the Project and evaluate the soundness
of its technical, financial and economic assumptions.
40.       While, economically and operationally, credit for working capital,
on-farm investment and the establishment of processing and packing facilities,
form an integral part of the Project, it will not be financed from this
loan, but through the special component for low income producers of the
Bank's Fourth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Loan (910-ME). Arrangements
have been made to ensure the timely and adequate availability of credit,
fertilizers and improved seeds which are essential for the success of the
Project (Section 3.02, Guarantee Agreement).
Project Impact
41.       The Project would contribute significantly to a balanced and
accelerated progress of communities in the target group. While it is
difficult to determine the number of beneficiaries from social investment
with precision, it is estimated that more than half a million persons,
close to a fourth of the Basin population, would directly benefit from at
least one of the social infrastructure components. The Project would further
help to increase the income of about 150,000 people, provide about 30,000
man-years of employment during Project implementation, and generate some
13,000 new permanent jobs, not including additional employment through
multiplier effects.



- 14 -
42.       The benefits of the Project would not be distributed evenly;
this is inherent in a strategy of utilizing existing resources to their
ful-Lest potential in an area with such different ecological conditions
as the Papaloapan Basin.
Income Incidence of the Project
US$
Net Fimily Income
No. of   Invest- 1/    W'out    With Z/  Percentage
?arm rin  e                Families  ment Cost     Project  Project   Increase
Espera-nza-Palmar de Bravo     400      8,934        234     2,222        810
ido Satcdo
- tehabilitation           1,200      3,066      1,088     1,616          50
- New Irrigation           1,700      2,433        2214      680         205
1i-o 13-1anco                1,400      6,110        70)4    4,584         5 40
Rainfed Upper Basin          5,b00        392        152       i124        180
hi>LnfedT Lower 3asin       15,700        519      1,l36     2 22!1         95
Note:  The 40th percentile family income level for 1974 is estimated to be
about US$1,500.
i/ Irr ,-ition investment, cost of technical assistance and on-farm investment
ner .verae size farm
2/  After full pro-ect development
83.       Those who have direct access to the more productive resources will
absorb relativelv more of the investment and will also benefit more. This
is most noticeable in the case of the Esperanza-Palmar Bravo farmers.    As
can be seen from the above table, their present income levels is among the
lowest of all groups, yet their income will increase more than eightfold
after full development, simply because they have access to water resources.
In contrast, the incomes of the farm families in rainfed agriculture will
only increase by 180 percent and 95 percent, respectively, because of
lirLtations in their resource base.
The table also indicates the difficulties of developing rainfed
a-riculture in the Upper Basin, one of the most poverty-striken areas in
the country.  TWhile the income increment of 180 percent is remarkable, the



peasants will still only earn a farm income of less than a third of the
40th percentile level. Although this is adequate to meet the farm families'
subsistence needs for foodstuffs, it will require the peasants to work
off-farm part-time to supplement their income. It also indicates that
activities other than agriculture will have to be developed in the Upper
Basin in a next stage project to allow this area to keep pace with
development elsewhere.
45.       Workshops and training in trades are included in the project
in order to better prepare the peasants for employment in new activities,
either in the Upper Basin itself where the establishment of small scale
industry and handicraft centers is feasible, or in other parts of the
country to reduce the population pressure on the Upper Basin's poor
resources.  The ecological conditions in the Lower Basin are, in contrast,
favorable and will allow the rural families to derive an adequate income
from their farms.
Financing
46.       Total Project costs are estimated at US$138.5 million equivalent.
A detailed breakdown of costs is given in Annex III axcluding US$18 million
for on-farm incremental working capital, which would be financed partially
from Bank Loan 910-ME, the proposed loan would finance 41 percent of Project
costs: the foreign exchange cost of US$21.2 million (17 percent of Project
cost, excluding on-farm incremental working capital) and US$28.8 million
equivalent of local currency cost (24 percent of Project cost, excluding on-
farm incremental working capital)0 The balance would be provided by the
Government (US$60.3 million or 50 percent of Project cost) and the
beneficiaries (US$10.2 million or 9 percent of Project cost).
Contribution of Beneficiaries
47.       The success of the Froject depends on a close association of the
beneficiaries with its execution. It is considered important, therefore,
that they take major responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
project works and contribute towards recovery of investment costs in a
significant way consistent with their payment capacity. While the beneficiaries
would pay full operation and maintenance costs, three principal guidelines
have been applied to determine the contributions for investment cost
recovery:
i.      directly productive investment, except for technical assistance
would be fully recovered. While the water charges for irrigation
development will only be determined after socio-economic studies on the
payment capacity of the beneficiaries are completed - as prescribed by
the new Federal Water Law - our cash flow projections indicate that
repayment of investment cost within 25 years at a positive interest



- 16 -
rate is feasible. Working capital and on-farm investanent would be
recovered at 7.6 percent, the interest rate charged to low income
producers by the official banking system;
ii.    productive support components - feeder roads, experimental
farms - as well as schools, workshops and health centers, are considered
free public services as in other parts of the country and, consequently,
no charges would be levied. However, benefitting villages are likely
to contribute with material and labor to the construction of schools and
workshops as is customary in the Basin. Marketing investment would be
recovered according to the policies of the Government's marketing board; and
iii.   social infrastructure investment for electricity, water systems
based on household connections and sewerage would be fully recovered
over 25 years at no interest.  The beneficiaries would finance at the out-
set however all investment within households and the costs of household
connections (about 24 percent of total systems costs). The electricity
charges thus levied would conform to the policy of the Federal Electricity
Commission. The proposed charges for domestic water supply and sewerage
wouLld constitute a substantial increase over presently prevailing rates.
In order to encourage the installation of cheaper communal hydrants -
as against supply systems based on individual house connections - which
would make it possible to supply a larger segment of the population with
potable water under given C-overnment budgetary constraints, beneficiary villages
under such systems would contribute only 20 percent of the investment
cost. A similar ahare would apply for coiunity centers.
Management and Organization
48.       The Papaloapan Commission would be the primary executing agency
of the project. Created on February 26, 1947, as a semi-autonomous
Government agency, the Commission has been given full authority by Presidential
Decree to promote the integrated rural development of the Basin. Since the
Commission's inception, the Government has planned, designed and constructed
a wide variety of public works, carried out resettlement programs and
promoted agricultural and industrial activities with a total budget of about
Mex$1.5 billion. The Commission has now a staff of about 620, 170 of
whom are professional, and is fully supported by the Ministry of Hydraulic
Resources' headquarters in all technical matters requiring special expertise.
49.       The Commission has recently been reorganized and given a new
management to strengthen its planning and executing capabilities. The
Minister of Hydraulic Resources is the president of the Commission.
Responsibility for actual management rests with the Chief Executing Officer,
the Vocal Ejecutivo, who in turn is supported by four Directors, for



- 17 -
development, construction, technical matters and administration. The
Commission was one of the first agencies to start integrated rural
development in Mexico and, although carried out on a small scale, has
gained invaluable experience in activities closely related to those
envisaged under the Project.
50.       The Commission would carry out the Project with the assistance,
where necessary, of other appropriate Government agencies such as the
Ministry of Public Works (SOP) for roads; the Federal Electricity Com-
mission (CFE) for rural electrification; the Ministry of Health (SSA)
for health centers and dispensaries; the Federal School Construction
Agency (CAPFCE) for schools; the Ministry of Hydraulic Resources (SI?H)
for irrigation, water supply and sewerage; the Government Marketing Board
(CONASUPO) for rural stores and marketing assistaice; and the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) for experimental farms. Arrange-
ments to ensure efficient coordination and implementation of the program
have been made (Section 3.01, Guarantee Agreement). Further, a Project
Director has been appointed, who will be responsible for managing the
operation of the Project under the general direction of the Vocal Ejecutivo.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       The Project would include a diversity of relatively small
construction jobs in many locations over a wide area and would involve
numerous Government agencies in the execution of the works. The Papaloapan
Commission would follow the contracting practices of the Ministry of Hydraulic
Resources and require conformance by other agencies. The following procure-
ment procedures would be applied:
i. grouping of contracts, where feasible, into larger packages in order to
obtain more competition in bidding.
ii.j all contracts, other than those for consultants, and purchases exceeding
Us$80,000 equivalent will be awarded under international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement;
iii. all contracts, other than those for consultants, of less than
US$80,000 equivalent would be let at unit prices approved by SRH or
executed by force account, provided that the total vague of unit price
based contracts and force account work would not exceed 30 percent
of total procurement costs and, furthermore, that force account work would
not exceed 10 percent of totpl procurement costs. The cost of engineerin,.
design and supervision of construction, and the salaries of staff employed
on experimental farms, technical assistance and monitoring would not be
included in computing the contracts awarded at unit prices or under force
account.
52.       The Bank would disburse against 41 percent of investment
expenditures by the executing agency for civil works, equipment and technical



_ 18 -
assistance (including salaries of technical personnel on experimental
farms) except for water systems based on household connections, sewerage
and electricity, for which the percentages would be 46, 50 and 48,
respectively. However, the higher percentages for these three components
are in fact equivalent to h1 percent of their total investment cost,
since the Bank would only disburse against work done by the Commission
or pertinent public agency and not against fixtures within households
built by the beneficiaries themselves.
Economic Evaluation
53.      The social and economic benefits of a rural development project
like the Papaloapan are likely to exceed the quantifiable magnitudes by a
large margin. The Project might well provide the critical mass to induce
sustained development in some areas of the basin, but the impact is not t
measurable with standard techniques, nor can the effects of individual
social investment components be measured adequately. Computations for
this project use the service charges for water supply, sewerage and elec-
tricity as a measure of minimum economic benefits which, together with the
incremental production from the productive investment, would yield an
overall rate of return of approximately 26 percent. Secondary effects
through project induced processing and marketing activities have not been
included. Nor have the benefits from education and training, community
centers, and health services been considered although they will have a
noticeable impact on the quality of life of the rural poor. The economic
rate of return would not fall below 19 percent even if investment costs
were to be 20 percent higher than projected.
5N.      After completion, the Project would require Government expenditures
to operate and maintain the non-revenue-earning components of approximately
US$9 million per annum after full development. Schools would account for
about 40 percent, medical facilities for about 20 percent, agricultural
technical services for 20 percent, roads for 12 percent, and minor components
for the balance. On the other hand, incremental Government revenues through
agricultural production taxes are estimated at US$1 million.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRTNMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PARI VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that tfie Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.,
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments






Pagp 1 of A Pages
DUSTIRY DATA _-P
AR-BA                                              POPULATION                                  OS-ItTY
1,9772,54? hot                                        54.;5 mtllon (sid-19?2)                               Par ko2ef a,abla icnd
SOCIAL INDICATORS
eference   outrice
OIW  MCAPITAUS    (ATLASBASIS)a                                475             750 /a          530 /a        800 /a     1,210 /a
DElMORPILIC
CTro   oUrth rate (per thousand)                               46             43 /a            38 Ac        30            20
Crude death rate (per thouand)                                21             10               10 751        9             8
Infant mortality rate (per thouand lIve birtha)               76 /d ac       58 aao          110           79            28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                              58 __          64 761 Ab.c                   62 /f         70
Oises reproductmw.   ,eh                                     3.2            3.1 Ab           2.6           2.2 /b       1.4
Population growth rat                                        3.2            3.5 7j           ?.9I .g11
Population growth rate- urban                                  SA             5Lh~             sn           3
Age structure (Percent)
0-lb                                                       4446                            42           39            28
i5-6L                                                       52             50               53 /s        55            63
65 and ever                                                  4              4                s7           6             9
Devendency ratio~ /6.5 /                                                    1.9 /I           i.sf l. .5Il.,p            1.0 /1
Urban popoulation as percent of total                         4   t          5   b5               6        7              9/.
holly planning. Na, of Acceptoro cumulative (thous.)         5-/ -9 __                        56 /i        76L           4  A 
No. of users (8 of married wwose)                                          1.625
YSflfabor force (thousands)                               11,300         13,000           29,500 /j     3,00h I      12,700 /c
Percentage employed In agriculture                          54             39               44           19 ?I         29 77
Percestage unsoployed                                      ..   .           4                  I          5F,           2-
1101 IRMTIM11alincuse received by highest 5%              29 /r a         36 /a t         33 Is         30 /sau
Percent of eat iomal jocose received by highest 20%           59 7r1a        64 777           62 71T       57isu        -
Percent of national income received by lowest 20%              4             4 7T3 7-                      5 71
Percent ot eational jncose received by lowest 40%             10 ___         12               lo 7-        1371
OISI!=BIUTIO  OP LAND O1UERSUP
S  ucdbytp 1VA of owners                                                               -
% ownd by sealleet 10% of owners                              ..
MkpLT ~AND NTRTION
Pbuaic Pephysician                                 1,800 Iv        1,440           1,950 /t      2,010 Iw       750AI
Population per  uring Person                               2,650 7;w      1,570            3,300 7E     5,320 7;-    1430 77
Popuaetion per hosp"ital bed                                 590 7.tx       930              260          250         1,220 7
Per capita calorie smpply as % of requirements               102 /_a        107 /ab          106          102           III /f
Per capite protein apply, total (grass per day)   6           65 Taao        66 73T           67           66            80 71'
Of which, anbeal and poise                                  29 7&a         28M5             39           32            40 7?
Death rate 1-4 years a7                                      14 7lao         11             ..3A/                       0.9-
EDUCATION
AU3Md IS primary school enrollment ratio                      el            104 lad          130 lad c-   119 Ic.ad      83
Wadjsted 7! secondary school enrolsment ratio                  9             23               27  171      2             49
Teers of ilboolleg provided~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;, first cod second level  12  12   1              21
Vocational enrollmest as5ofsc. school esrollrsent             232 t1                                       33            13
Adult literacy rate S                                         24             24 7;t           68 3a39 2.0.c             94A.fc
rWfle-a  No. of Persene per ions (urban)                     2.6 lah        2.5  a           1.0 /t       1.4 Ic ak
Percent of occupied unite without piped water                68      t,      6a               67 721 -     40
Adbess to electricity (ae % of total population)                                7. Id         LIla
Percent of tvural pepulation co-ncted to electricity                         59 8ai            8
~ei'c   rs Per 1000 Population                           95            276              60           143          214 It
Passenger cars per 1000 pepelatien                            14255187
Electric power conaumption (bet p.c.)                        33258                           47?          772        1670
Newsprint consuoption p.c. kg per year                      33.a/           3.1             279           4.3        1,5.8
Notes: Figures refer either to the latest periodo or to            aocount of environmental tomperatore,- ody weilita, and,
the latest years. latest periods refer i-n principle to             distribution by age ant sex of national pePulatione.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years In prim-         LA.Protein standards (requiremeents) for all countries as netb-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                             listed by USDA Saoonoioanecaroh Service provide for a cinlau
f  The Per Copita 05N9 cetisate is at market priceo for           Allowance of 60 gream of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
ye-r. othcr than 1960, calculated by the aame conversion        animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gras shoould be anisal
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                         protein.  These etandarda are somewhat l-owr thon those of 75
LaAverage vntmer of daughters per wosa of reproductive             grams of total protein and 23 grama of animal protein as an
age,                                                            average for the world, proposed by PLO in the Third World Food
l Pbpulation growth retee are for the decodes ending in           Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                               7Sone studies have auggoeted that crude death rates of children
& Ratio of under 15 and 65 And over age brackets to               agec 1 through 4 say be coed as a first approximation index of
those in lahor force bracket of agee 15 through 6it.            mal-otrttion.
ulOreference etendardo roprsenot pbyoi.ological re -              Percentage enrolled of corresponding popalation of school age
qionts for noreol activity and health, taking               as defined fcr each country.
/a   1972;   /t   1965-70;   /c  Estimate;   /d  1959;    Is  1959-61;   If  1969-70;    La  1960-72;   A   localities of 2,500
or core;   /iUrban anrosuturban cones-of adMinistr-ative centers     ? mnicipalities and distr -   uIcts;  /4  Populated centera
which have Tefinite orban characteristics contributed by certain public and meunicipal services;     At   localities of 10,000
or more Inhabitants;    /I  Ratio of population under 15 And 65 and over to total labor force;     In  15-59 years;
Is   60 years and over;   IolRatio of population under 15 and 60, and over to total labor force;      I -1971;    IoBas.ed on 1.3
.percent sample tabulaWTon of cacaoa returns, excluding tadjan jungle population;      lr   1963; 27a   Househofls;   I/t  1969;
Lu   1968,   Iv  19611    L.  Governmest only;   /x   Number on the register, net all workTflg in the cZntry;     /Z  HespflalI
peroonnelT'  Iz   1962j,  Iaa  1961-62;   Iar_ 1964-66;    lao  Registered only;    /ad  Gross enrollment whioh includes
oerage studecs     Ie    1   neerolntaisin 197Tr                  4   n   8  for bailc and secondary education, respectively;
/af  Definition unknoan;   7'M   15 Fears and over;   /ab   Data refer to living quarters;    Iai  Urban and mural;     !   Data
refer is hcoaing units;    Iak  Data refer to houfs'l;clde;  /Id  Estimste based on sampfl-tabulation of cmenu   re urns; data
refer to dwellings;    In -Slide or Outaide;     lan   includin-g scsi-permanent dwellings;   lao  1960-62 average;
Ins mids only.
Spbaitn hao been selected as an objective country because its per capita incose is higher tban mexico, and because butt
countries have in coenon the importance of towria and the influence of nearby richer countries.
RI September 25, 1974



5~~~~TA 111E'l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   o30 
"roil...  192.  ___________ ~~~~~~~~ ,r2  : 960  19,0  297  1929  95290       1'B
39960   1991     19210    1913     1924    Li2       :19      120     26   11 5        28     990    16     90    2
rosa  24'~~.tt,  erud,c  26463.Z 9  22, 312. 2  3,73. 9  32,0227V  99 50-9.9  12,114,.  42, 15.o -  3  2.6  5.  2. 4.   99.0  130.0  99.8a
2.so.9r2...rm.291t.2.6..)  19.1  <.~~~ ~~~2.09  2.16.1       4,      112.      .-                                      .1     14   . 2
t,9s:tr boost  21650.2  1~~~~~72,269. 3  30,2766.2  2, T 3, 52t.4  4625 60, 266 .4  . 7. 3  61 6.1   2.     .     160-0.       0.
Ito  I,  .50'  ~~~ ~IIz.903.  27t25.9  9,203.2Z  3,930  0  2,903.1  4,127 2.  6, 22 4.3  .. 3.2  7.2  69  9. 3  ..  1.4    9.8  103
.0000(5 IloDor, latto 522)  .079.1  -2~14 990  -1467.2  340.6  28 3999 -2.             .   6.142.      225    ..      1,7    861.
0.52,925 4'r    1o3.0    146~~~~~~~~~NI1  34021.  321.4 &  3 83.8 15                   91.        1                     3    10   0
Cro.osttIr2    5992.2  ~~~~~~~~~~~12,0  25,032.3  2-416.2  jI 953.8  217 .  4.2.' .    406  .           6.'    .       23    8.    1
0.9.0.9  4,011.9  6,991.3  1,434.0  9.219.?  ~~~~~8, 602.90  1,122.  .. 96  5.. 2.,.7.       9~1.        .
2',tt..t, Osotot.  2,223~~~~~~.2  4,464.2  5.).  ,9.  7522  89.      0,0.       .      2.0   5,2   '9    0.1    .       72     862.
4042.44.  9'? 9  '92.7  9~~9. 2',Qtt..  2,999.3  1.921.)  4,293.7  22.072,1  2 2  3.2  It.)  19.?2  19.2b32 2  26.2 '12 3
9,254148~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, A3ItI,,I2od  0.  4.  5.  3.  6.     1.      ,2.      .6,      .1, -9.24 91    1.       3      24    2.    .
P. rol,.o. od Prolotls  20.6~~~7  4211.       42     297      2.        29      409    2.    99   3.      .      .       .      .    .
Seloosod9l.ttelt  32 5  22.9  92.9  92.1   119.1    14.5     149,6    666.3  .4.5  3.3   4.9   9..   13.0     6.9    3.3  2.2 5  59
2,22,', 13.29' *  219.9  396.9   510.8    292,2   993.16  3,360     ,50.   2.71      1.3   2.   1.2    236    5.      3.2   2.   13.
90.. 4s,.,, 9.t,tsr  212.904  4903  13932 1:   41,324.9  I,039.  1,3.   N,042.2a  42,1499.  3.  29   191   2.     :.       22     99.
d2                           402, ,3o8.0  z7  0.2 1'1  1.6      42.1         ,s.Y~0W8               33.      ,     .
202 .0   04,5    20.2     19.7      942     1.4      20129    2969    16   22   ..      ,      ,
.4231 29009   15,272.2  32,3~~~~~~~49.4  2019 3,994 0,5. 2,,222.;  t3297,1 910425,3   2.   2.0  o20    29.4    ,      0.    20023
.2,']       ..     2.992,1'  4,024,4  4,363  2  5.109,2  5.624.~~~~~~~  .2,535.9  .  1.3  21.9  19         .       ,    2.  1920  3
234,4,2  F2900222244,  ..  2,291.5  3,196.4  3,5-13.3  3,o14,2  s.312.i  6,145.3  ..  ..  5.2    ..       . .  53.2  20.27 6  13i  1~46  -5.
164.5  841.4  319.9  2,930.2  2,493.9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~9: 4,43.  4`4 ..  . 1,  2  .      ..   148   9.
~~~"  223  22  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..  ,,        002 oIl~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  53203                 622 4 '  
.414.92244  ..  5   0       20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              5.        ,   IDo 01
.2  3042.  . .   26      22       30       . .      .,       ,,        , .  Idlolsy 05.                  . IT32.
5.11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,12                               54      ,,       4.
-d               .95       2 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19491                   463.b937
2~~~~~*  ,  lC~~~~~~~~~~~4              2.99      .6                        9 1 ~    1.     1   C
242. 6 100slrl:s              .59      2,99    2.95      2.21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28  1.,  .5 93 h.  i 
32  1 .1  1,92.0121  522100  solo           .2o      .26.2217.2
-1070                                            29,9.1 9~~~~~~~~~~7.  2
13,72., 205.3.        2009.9 3 .89  1964.9'   2.2  2                2,392 7. 9            92.7 7,6
.32. 097114261,  -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ,
-22' or2sg2096o            V232 000:203.4Cr., Cu4,2 <1,2422422142,9
395  3 I'       ,sussio3,,2 
......   B5 0  35 3     311       9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L24.20.22,,2 .4140. ,,03. 



APagEeX31of 4 Pages
BAIANCE OF PAYMENIS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                  Preli.iiar       Estimate                               Prolected
1970          1971        19 72       19 3           1974          1975        1976         19 77      1978          19 79        1900
SU.'0`VRY 9ALANCE OF PAY`IE`TS
Exports (incl. NFPS)                    2,745.3       2,995.4     3,609.4      4,5:4.)       5,859.1       6,911.7      8,061.3      9,725.2   11,707.4      14,073.1      16,313.4
Impoorts (intl. NFS)                    3,296.3       3,263.0     3,859.9      5,01 S.7      6,542.7       7,287.2      8,504.8      9,934.7   11,610.4       1,3 74. 5    13,855.7
Resource Balance (M)                      551.2         267.6       243.5        5i 4 .       -683.6        -375.4       -443.4       -209.5        97.0        498.6         6 57. 7
Interest (net)                            213.4         244.7       264.4        31 4..        439.3         556.6        669.8        798.5       910.1      1,027.1       1,141.4
Direct investment Income                  479.6         49 3. 7     593.3        7! 0.         901.0       1,071.6      1,222.8      1,391.5     1,375.2      1.783.1       2,019.5
Workers' renittances                       1 22. 7      111.5       126.7        1. 0.1L        104.4        162.5         183.6       204.2       2 28. 7      256.1         286. 9
Cu,rrent Transfers (net)                   5...155    ..*)74         64.3          1.1        -75.0          -78.3         84.1         90.2       101.0        113.1         129.7
Balance on C..rrnnt Account            -1,068.0       - 837,1      -91l0.2    -1.4, 7.1     -1.808.5      -17762.      -208.         T2105. 1   -2.586       -1.942.3       2   8 
Private Direct inveerment                 323.0         307.0       301.0        3 2.89        421.0         536.6         611.4       698.7       788.7        892.8       1,010.6
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                           781.6         794.0     1,061.1      1,8- 2. 7     1,821.1       t,796.6      1,886.5      2,034.6     2,145.8      2,708.2       2,5 12.4;
-Repavme.ets                           474.8         496.0       590.8       7~0.1          530.5         569.3        549.6        774.2       990.8      1,_276.0  C   l,5S.8I
Net. Iiabursemncn'a                       306.8         29.          7.            26        1205          117. 2        f,336-9     1,260.4     1,154.9        9 32. 2       954.6
Capjtal Transactions n.e.i.               540.2         43 2. 1     343.9        1'4. 9          97.0        250.0         300.0       250.0       394.8        445.3         50 2. 3
Change in net reserves                   -102.0        -200.0      -205.0       -1 !2. 6          0.0       -161.0       -180.0       -202.0      -279.8       -328.0        -381.0
(-indicates increase)Prlin                                                                                                                                             Esi&d
GRAN1TS AND LOAN COMl1IfTMENTS                                                                  DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                   197j        j,jj~        lizi        LUA
Official Grants & Grant-like---
PublIc Debt Out. & Disbursed           3,516.6     4,010.2      5,277.6       6,475.0
Public M4LT Loans
I:,' RI                                 146.8          7 5. 0     2 77. 0      20O.0        interest on Public Debt                  2 27. 3     258.6         361.5        414.1
IDA-                                                    -           -                       Repaymnents on P.blic Debt               496.0       590.8        780.1         530.5
Other Multilateral                       112.3         63.2        73. 2        t9.5        TntLI Public Debt Service                723.3       849.4      1,141.4         944.6
C.overnmncnts                            80.3          54.4        65.5        4;1.5        other Debt Service (net)                  17,4         5.8         23.1          24.9
Suppliers                                69.7          77. 3       75,2         io0.0*      Total Debt Service (net)                 740.7       855.2      1,164.5         969.5
Financial Institutions                  434.4         638. 7      627.3      1,7.1.1
Ronds.                                   -             44.8       176.5.       113. 1       Burden on Export Earnings (.
Public Loans n.e.i.--                                               -            -            Public Debt Service                     23.3        2 2 .7       24.5          15.7
Total Public MI&LT Lo-ans                 -UT.4         9-55-.4    fl,2-877    27.7 T, !        Total Deht Service (TDS)                 23.8       22.9          25.0         16.2
TDS + Direct Invest. Income              39.7       38,8          41.0         31.2
Outstanding & Disbursed on Dec. 31~1971
EXTERNtAL DEBT                            Million $                 Percent                     Average Terms of Public Debt
Public M&LT Loans                                                                               *nt. as 7. Print Year DO&D               7.0         7,3           9.0          7.8
IBRD                                     808.5                    15.3                        Amort as 7. Print Year DO&D             16.3        16,8         19.5          10.1
IDA
Other Multilateral                        368.0                    7.0                       1RRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
CIovern.entn                             466.5                     8.8"                          as 7. Total Public 11O&D             18.8        18.0         15.3          14.1
Suppliers                                327.4                     6.2                        'as 7. Public Debt Service               8.3         8.5           7. 7         9.8
Financial Institutions                 2,720.3                    51.6
Bonds       .                            580.8                    11.0                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Public Debts n.e..                         6,2                     0.1                           as 7. Total Public DO&D
Total Public M1&LT Debt                5,77. 7                    100,0                          as 7. Public Jlebt Service
not applicable                       e  staff estim.ate
not ayailable-                          nil or negligible
..not available separately            -    less than half of the
but included in rotal                   smallest unit shown.



w  t g  o g  *. 1; o  . .  _ _r   f_D ' g"S _ C  - .  -t0   .   C   C  O C. DO   .  .  .  . O  . OOO.  ' OO'o C . . ao a   C  C
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 C
- 6  °      :O..4 7 OCi   OO  0S 000  ; _ O=  .1                                  .  0. c  ooo.ouo  ooo. o,ooo   .o o  .coo  o   oD *C 
W) C   .  C  C   C.  .  .  .  .S
|  ; °  i '  °'  ''  '-°  oa  i cG  _g  '  S . c  r.  spO  oC  **  ¢o  *s  *.......................................... Di ...  *O  aO  * >>, {  gi 
"  |l   Or°   tooroo  co -9ao   *;.6 ¢rovatt  t o"~o  oooo ooooooe°t  coto'o  cS  wo'tsoC ooDoto   WI



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
HIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEICO
A.   STATE14ENT OF BANK LOANS (as at August 31, 1974) a/
US$ Million
.oa ~n                                                  Amount Less
Nwuber    Year         Borrower              Puri)o      Cancellations  IJndisbursed
22 loans fully disbursed                   986.5           --
51966   Nacional Financiera, S.A. Irrigation         19.0          0.6
-27       19c)8   Nacional Financiera, S.A.  Irrigation        25.0          6.3
695       1970    Nlacional Financiera, S.A.  Roads            21.8          7.2
793       1972    Nacional Financiera, S.A.   Tourism          22.0         17.7
820       1972    Nacional Financiera, S.A.   Ports            20.0         19.3
82)4      1972     Nacional Financiera, S.A.  Industry         35.0         29.4
825       1972     Ferrocarriles Nacioneles
de Mexico and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.         Railway s         75.0         35.1
833h      1972    Comisi6n Federal de Elec-
tricidad and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.          Power           125.0         29.9
909       1973    Nacional Financiera, S.A.   Water Supply     90.0         90.0
910       1973    Naciona]. Financiera, S.A.  Agriculture     110.0        110.0
934       1973     Siderurgica Lazaro Car-
denas - Las Truchas,
S.A. and Nacional Fi-
nanciera, S.A.            Steel            70.0         63.0
19714   Nacional Financiera, S.A. Roads              90.0         90.0
9c°       1974    Nacional Financiera, S.A. Irrigation         77.0         76.9
970       197'    Nacional Financiera, S.A.   Irrigation       47.0         46.9
1022 b/    1974    Nacional Financiera, S.A.   Airports         25.0         25.0
T O T A L                                 1,838.3        647.3
Of w1hich has been repaid                   303.5
Total now outstanding                     1,534.8
AmoLnt sold              6>9.1
of which hes been repaid )48.9             20.2
Total now held by Bank                    1,514.6
Total undisbursed                                        647.3
a/ No IDA Credits hqve been made to Mexico
b/ Not vet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATE-IENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at August 31, 1974)
Amount in $ Million
Year      Obligor                        Type of Business     Loan     Equity  Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect Circle      Industrial Equip-
S.A. 1/                        ment                  0.8       -     0.8
19?       Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/     A/C Engine Over-
haul                  0.5       -     0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A. 1/           Twist Drills          0.3       -     0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.     Steel                 2.3      21.4   23.7
1963      Tu os de Acero de Mexico, S.A. Steel                 0.9      0.1     1.0
1963      Quirnica del Rey, S.A. 1/      Sodium Sulphate       0.8        -     0.8
1964/66   Industria del Hierro, S.A.     Construction
Equipment              -       2.0    2.0
1970      Minera del Norte, S.A.         Iron Ore Mining       1.5        -     1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana, S.A.        Textiles             12.0        -    12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel Periodico
S.A. de C.V.                   Pulp and Paper         2/        2/     2/
1973      Cemento Veracruz               Cement               10.5       -    10.5
1974      Car..un IAristos Hlotel        Tourism               1.0      0.2     1.2
Total Gross Commitments                             30.6     23.7   54.3
Loss c,rice'l1ations, Lenfiilations,
-ena7-ment .nd sales                              13.9     21.6   35.5
Total commitments now held bv IFC,                  l6.7      2 1   i8.8
Total Undisbursed                                              -
1/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold
redeemed or repaid.
2/  ST$25,000.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION j/
Ln. No. 527    Fourth Irrigation Project:  $25 Million Loan of January 26,
i968; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Estimated project costs have risen by about 36 percent.
Project benefits will be higher than estimated at appraisal, but
probably not enough to fully offset the cost increases. Civil
works are about 50 percent complete. The original Closing Date
(June 30, 1975) has been extended by ono year to enable
completion of works.
Ln. No. 695    Fourth Road Project:  $21.8 Million Loan of June 26, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The project is slightly behind schedule because of initial
delays in budgetary allocations. This problem has now been
resolved, and disbursements have accelerated during 1973.
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
Consequent to the reorganization of the principal executing
agency, completion of the infrastructure works in the Ixtapa
tourism area will be about four months behind schedule. Diffi-
culties in finalizing the institutional and legal arrangements
required before commencement of the infrastructure works in the
town of Zihuatanejo have caused a delay of over two years.
Ln. No. 820    Ports Project: $20 Million Loan of May 17. 1972;    Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
The execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily,
despite some delays in the preparation of tender documents. The
operations consultants financed under the loan have completed much
of their work. The National Ports Development Study, carried out
as part of the projects, is progressing satisfactorily. R quired
revisions of port charges and tariffs are behind schedule.
i/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Ln. No. 82h1   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million
Loan of June 2 1 72    Closing Date: December 31, 1 975.
The loan became effective on October 12, 1972. FONEI had
a slow start because of problems in organization and promotion,
but operations have picked up and several sub-loans have been
approved over the last six months.
Ln. No. 825    Second Railway Project: $75 million Loan of June 2. 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The new management of the railways, appointed in May 1973,
is capable, and recent changes in operating practices are ex-
pected to improve operations. Significant progress has been
made in procurement and orders have been placed for most of uhe
major items. The National Railways have not succeeded in achieving
the operating target established under the Loan Agreement, partly
because the required tariff increases have not been introduced
and partly because of unexpected labor and fuel cost increases.
Schedules for a new tariff structure, including substantial tariff
increases, have been completed; we have been assured by the Govern-
ment that the new tariffs will be introduced before February, 1975.
Ln. No. 334    Fourtlh Power Sector Program: $125 Million Loan of June 23,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1974.
Following satisfactory increases in power tariffs, the loan
became fully effective on October 17, 1973. The construction progran
has been delayed and, in the initial stages, was not properly carried
out; CFE is however seriously attempting to improve performance.
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:   $90 Million Loan of June
18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1277.
Effectiveness of this loan was delayed because of difficulties
in establishing contractual arrangements between the Water Commission
and the State of Mexico. In order to permit disbursements in respect
of works in the Federal District - the main beneficiary of the
project - which had already signed its contract with the Water
Commission, the Loan Agreement was amended by deleting the signing
of a sales contract with the State of Mexico as an additional
condition of effectiveness and by establishing that no funds over
$40 million equivalent could be withdrawn from the loan account
until said contract has been signed.
Ln. No. 910    Fourth Livestock and Agriculture Project:   $110 Million Loan
of June 18, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The loan became effective in October 1973. Disbursements
under the Low Income Producerst Sub-Project, a new departure



ANNEX II
Page 5 oC 5
initiated under this loan, are ahead of schedule while dis-
bursement under the General Sub-Project, the other component
of the loan, was delayed somewhat to await full commitment of
Loan 7h7-iIE.
Ln. No. 934   Las Truchas Steel Project: $70 Million Loan of September 12,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Execution of the project and procurement of the equipment
financed by the loan are progressing satisfactorilv, although
some slippage has occurred. Cost increases are expected as
higher seismnic factors have to be used in the design of plant
and buildings and the impact of the energy crisis.
Ln. No. 960   Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1,
197a; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The loan became effective on May 29, 1974.
Ln. No. 969   Rio Panuco Irrigation Project: $77 Million Loan of March 1,
1974;  Closing Date: December 31, 1950
The loan became effective on May 29, 1974.
Ln. NIo. 970  Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $)47 Million Loan of March 1,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1950
The loan became effective on May 29, 1974.
Ln. No. 1022  Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of May 28,
1974;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1976 
The loan became effective on September 16, 1974.



ANTEX 17-1
Page 1 of 5
MsEa CO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUI'4ARY
Borrower:               Nacional Financiera, S.A., a financial agency of
the 'Mexican Government, which iunder existing Meeican
legislation is one of the two institutions which tiay
be a borrower of Bank loans.
Guarantor:              The United Mexican States
Amount:                 US$50 million equiva:Lent
Terms:                  Payable in 24 years, including, 5 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 8 percent per anm ,i
Project Descrintion:    The Project consists of diirectly product-n, produrc-
tive support and social infrastructure compIoenLt
designed to raise the income and improve tlie stand-
ard of living of poor rural fanilies in thP. aoa-
loapan Basin. The indivi dual Project. compaonents are
s-umarized below:
1. Irrig.ation and on-farm woi,rks
a. Espevlanza and Palm..-.r le Bravo V:3Ilen. s
Const.ruct.ion of about 40 deep wells equiprped
with pumps and -motors each servi ng aboutL 60
has., complementary lined canaal .nid land
l.evelling.
b. Southern part of the Rio Salado l. --igation
District
Concrete lining oj' all ma.in canuals and. Laterals
of the 3,600 ha. system in the upper gorge, sout.!h
of the Tehuacan Vall]ey.
Construction of a new irrigation ali distribution
system  of about 2,500 ha. in the lower gorge,
including 3 diversion dams, 3 direct intakes on
Rtio Salado, about 90 kms of concret,e-l:ined main
canals, about 160 kms of branch and minor canals,
installation of regulating gates and measuring
devices, construction of' about 70 km of opera--
tional service roads and land levelling.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of5
c. Rio Blanco Irrigation District
Construction of a complete distribution system
for 16,000 ha., of which 7,500 ha. are irri-
gated at present, including rehabilitation of
existing structure, concrete-lining of canals
transversing permeable soils, additional roads
for irrigation operations and maintenance, and
installation of operational gates and measuring
devices; provision of operation and maintenance
equipment and land levelling0
2. Technical Assistance
a. Provision of intensive technical services to
farmers in the irrigated areas of the Project,
including training in matters related to water
use, land preparation, technical inputs, and
proper timing of all structural operations.
b. Provision of an intensive technical assistance
package and agricultural credit to promote adoption
of modern farming methods and inputs on 100,000 h-.
rainfed agriculture.
c. Organization of viable community organizations
to operate and maintain project works as well as
to collect and administer project related user
charges.
3. Experimental Farms
Establishment of two experimental farms in the
Upper Basin and one in the Lower Basin to carry
out applied research with concentration on
rainfed agriculture.
4. Feeder Roads
Construction of feeder roads, especially for
service of areas in which agricultural
development is financed under the project.
5. Water Supply and Sewerage
Construction of water supply systems in villages
and towns with between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants,
consisting oft public hydrants in villages and
towns of less than 1,000 inhabitants and dis-
tribution systems with individual household



ANMEX III
Page 3 of 5
connections, as well as public hydrants, in
towns with large populations.
Construction of sewerage and sewage treatment
systems in towns with between 1,000 and 5,000
inhabitants which already have water supply
systems.
6. Electricity Supply
Construction of electric power supply systems
for 50 percent of the towns with more than 2,5(0
inhabitants, 25 percent of those with between 1,G00
and 2,500 inhabitants, and 12 percent of the villages
and towns with between 500 and 1,000 inhabitants
that presently lack such service.
7. Medical Facilities
Construction and equipment of health centers in all
villages above 1,500 inhabitants and 50 percent of
the villages between 1,000 and 1,500 inhabitants.
8. Educational Facilities
Construction, furnishing and equipping of about
1,200 workshops or prefabricated classrooms for
primarv education in villages and towns of be-
tween 5'00 and 5,000 inhabitants.
9. Community Centers
Construction of about 140 comunlity centers in
villages and towfns of between 500 and 1,000
inhabitants where potable water -ls uxtpplied by
means of water hYdrants.
10.  iarketing Facilities
Establishment and operation of storage fac-illities
for marketing agricultural inputs and production.
11. Project Monitoring
Review of the effect the preceeding parts of the
Project have on the project area.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
Estimated Cost:                                          ---US$  Millions---
Components                           Local Foreign Total
Irrigation Systems
Labor                                2.5    0.0    2.5
Cement                               0.6    0.2    0.8
Reinforcing Steel                    0.1   00     0.1
Other                                6.O    2.6    8.6
Incremental Working Capital On-Farm
Labor                                4.0    0.0    4.0
Other                                5.2    1.3    6.5
Technical Assistance & Research
Labor                                7,0    0.0    7.0
Other                                2.1    0.7    2,8
Feeder Roads and Marketing Facilities
Labor                                7.9    0.0    7.9
Other                                7.9    0.9    8.8
Social Infrastructure
Labor                                7.2    0.0    7.2
Cement                               0.8    0.4    1,2
Reinforcing Steel                   0o6     0.3    0.9
Other                               15.6    6.7   22,3
Monitoring
Labor                                0.1    0.1    0,2
Other                                0.0    0.0    0.0
Contingencies
Physical                            10e2    1.9   12,1
Price                               38,2    7°4   45.6
T 0 T A L                            116,0   22,5  138.5
Allocation of Bank                                  Amount        Percent of
Loan:               Component                    (US$ Million)       Total
Irrigation Systems                5.0             10
Technical Services                3.0              6
Experimental Farms                1.1              2
Feeder Roads                      6.6             13
Marketing Facilities              0.4              1
Water Systems                    14.0              8
Sewerage                          1,2              2
Electricity                       2.4              5
Medical Centers                   2.5              5
Schools and Workshops             2.3              5
Community Centers                 0.7              1
Monitoring                   -     .1              -
(Contingencies)                  20.7             42
Total Bank Loan            50.0            100



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
Estimated             FY                               Cumulative Amount
Disbursements:        --                                 (US$ Million)
1976                                     5.8
1977                                    14.3
1978                                    24.9
1979                                    37.0
1980                                    50.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        The following procurement procedures would be followed
for civil works and building construction, machinery,
equipment, materials and supplies:
i) all contracts and purchases exceeding US$8O0O0O
equivalent will be awarded under international competi-
tive bidding in accordance wi-th the Bank's guideLinec;
ii) all contracts of less than US$80,000 equivalent
would be let at unit prices or force account, providced
that the total value of Luit price based contracts and,
force account work would not exceed 30 percent and,
furthermore, that force account work would not exceed.
10 percent of total procurement costs.
Rate of Return:      26 percent on the basis of the costs and quantifi8ble
benefits of all Project components.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 527-M}, dated September 23, 1Q'(¼.
Regional 1rr^jects Department, Latin Amerl-ica and the
Caribbean Regional Office.



IBRD 11078
M MEXICO                         MAY 1074
04Zb7m                     ~                                                    t.>      >                               INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
,4,267.                                      ERACRUZ                       PROJECT I - PAPALOAPAN BASIN
Project Area and Banking Network
0   (V                 <          t l                      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zreson5beirriqered fin tie pojactAno  c~Rhyers
Popoloai- Bive Rosin u-ndary  - ..- Mo rods
-19 0 0                                              ~-i                            ~       Pasodel  e7oro              ---   injoniM Upper snondloer Rosin  See ondarypOd ds1
5,                                               u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  aois  BANKING SYSTEMS:  - --S. d,ynaidl n., nstrr
E:~A~kA.  ha ~                                                                               *  Banco ~icnIA          -.---Adroadst.-      n 1
<,              ;oRDC                                                    -                     _      B.nia  Eaid.1           Stn Ee  boundaries
P  U A - /~seonr~iiin  £ oCo>~.-,                           400'>~Ar C.r  ....Ap . A aoe                               Gulf of Mexgco
TOIAXAA+      /     IIA                      ul 
_le                .  (o =< _< g 17: )9 Go/t~~~~~md.6                                                                        p
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo 10110 20. 30                                                                                 -. -. **,7  o  6<  >   yE  . CO s.'
0      10      20      30     40      S00-S                                  c                                                            o 
Miles                                             A30000  1    
Soarce. SECPETAR/A  OE 0ECUlRSOS I9/O,AlIl/COS                                                                ro. vkhn.0n,v.  f00nomsr hor o0va  nov..,.  0  ;   n. j
Coossinnn del Popoor/oopon                               2                            9noT vOnnov          or noooo  On 0 e _.-.--OrfO  arnono dnors oa 
Or                   07'                                                 007               iooodannv.roooaooroo  ---.-isr.rrar;ano  vaeOvri.,  1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



