Report No. PID10684
Project Name                     Cambodia-Economic and Public (@) ...
Sector Capacity Building Project (LIL)
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Civil Service Reform, Public
Financial Management
Institutional Development
Project ID                       KHPE71247
Borrower                         Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency              Council for Administrative Reform
The Office of the Council of Ministers
41, Russian Federation Boulevard
Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia
Tel:     (85) 5-23723903
Fax:     (85) 5-23362151
E-mail: tinamus@camnet.com.kh
Date PID Prepared                April 30, 2002
Appraisal Date                   April 12, 2002
Projected Approval Date          June 6, 2002
Background
Following the Paris Peace Accord in 1991 and general elections in 1993, a
coalition Government was formed. Since then the Government's public sector
reforms have focused primarily on the first generation of reform, i.e.,
achieving macroeconomic stability and improving fiscal management. Those
reform efforts achieved significant success in containing inflation and
restoring fiscal discipline. Since 1996, however, the reform efforts weakened
significantly due partly to conflicts between the two coalition parties.
A new coalition Government, formed in November 1998, along with the collapse
of the Khmer Rouge, brought the highest levels of political stability,
security and peace in Cambodia ever achieved in the last three decades. This
new Government demonstrated commitment to developing and implementing economic
and social policies with a focus on poverty reduction.
To help reduce poverty, improving public service delivery is essential. The
major challenge facing the Cambodian government now is to formulate and
implement the second generation of reform, e.g., improving pubic financial
management and public administration, moving toward good governance, and
strengthening government capacity for poverty-focused policy formulation.
Project Objectives
The project's development objective is to enhance the capability of the
Cambodian public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively. Helping
Cambodia on this agenda will involve a coordinated effort to shift civil
service incentives to a sustainable basis and to create systems of accountable
and transparent governance.



This project begins this process. It will provide a jump-start to capacity
building through immediate bridge support for skill enhancement in key reform
areas. The project will build capacity among a targeted cadre of government
officials to carry out urgent and essential development tasks, while the basis
for longer-term institutional development is being established. A hallmark of
the project is to introduce innovative approaches to extend the reach of
capacity building by leveraging new technologies, such as a Global Development
Learning Network (GDLN) facility.
The project will have four main components: (i) strengthening project
management; (ii) training program development and implementation; (iii)
institutional development; and (iv) the GDLN center.
The project aims to build capacity of three target groups: executives,
managers, and professionals, in both the executive, and, to a lesser extent,
legislative branches. For each target group and program, an appropriate degree
of participation of female civil servants will be ensured. Six categories of
training include: (i) leadership and management practices; (ii) policy
development and implementation; (iii) public financial management; (iv) human
resource management; (v) governance and public administration; and (vi)
poverty reduction.
Project Benefits
The proposed project will support the Government in delivering public services
more effectively and efficiently. The ultimate beneficiaries will be the
Cambodian people, particularly the poor, who will have access to improved
public services.
Project Risks
One risk is that, in the absence of more significant civil service pay reform,
the Government may have difficulty retaining trainees in government. The World
Bank proposed a set of actions that would signify a robust program of analytic
work that could prepare the ground for civil service pay and employment
reform. These were agreed upon with the Government in the form of a work plan
to be achieved by August 2003. The Government needs to consider more
substantial pay and employment reform in the context of a forthcoming Public
Expenditure Review, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and a potential
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC).
Another risk is the financial viability of the GDLN center. The concern is
that there would not be sufficient demand from both the public and private
sectors for the Center to achieve a sustainable utilization rate. General
mitigation measures include: the effective marketing and promotion of the
center's services for donor community and private sector usage, government
commitment to utilize the center for civil service training, and donor support
for recurrent expenses. The projected revenues presented in a feasibility
study conducted for the Cambodia GDLN center indicated that the center could
reach operational sustainability at the end of the fourth year of operation.
Project Financing
The proposed credit amount is US$5.4 million. The Government's contribution is
US$0.26 million.
-2-



Project Implementation
The Council of Administrative Reform is the executing agency. The Advisory
Board is to provide advice on the implementation of the project. The Royal
School of Administration and the Economics and Finance Institute will host
training service delivery, supported by external training institutions. The
GDLN center will be established as a separate operational center within the
project.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and will not require an environmental assessment as the GDLN center
will be built at the existing building.
Poverty Category
This project is not poverty-targeted intervention. However, its development
objective is to reduce poverty by enhancing the capability of the Cambodian
public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively.
Project Objective Category
The project is a capacity building operation.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Su-Yong Song
Task Team Leader
(202) 458-0498
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-3-



