Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 23842-KH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.4 MILLION (US$5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
May 23, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 22, 2002)
Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel
I Cambodian Riel = USSO.000256
US$1 = 3,900 Cambodian Riel
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
AEP                  Advanced Executive Program
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CAR                  Council for Administrative Reform
CIDA                 Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CG                   Consultative Group
CSSS                 Civil Service Secretariat of State
DSG                  Deputy Secretary General
DDG                  Deputy Director General
DFID                 Department of International Development
EFI                  Economics and Finance Institute
EFPPMU               Economic and Financial Policy, Planning, and Monitoring Unit
EPSCB               Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
EU                  European Union
GAP                 Govemance Action Plan
GDLN                 Global Development Leaming Network
HRD                  Human Resource Development
HRiMIS               Human Resource Management Information System
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
ISDN                Integrated Services Digital Network
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
LSU                 Logistics Support Unit
MEF                 Ministry df Economy and Finance
MDP                 Management Development Program
MOEYS               Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
MOP                 Ministry of Planning
MOU                 Memorandum of Understanding
MTfEF               Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NAA                 National Audit Authority
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NPAR                National Program for Administrative Reform
PAP                 Priority Action Program
PDP                 Professional Development Program
PER                 Public Expenditure Review
PIM                 Project Implementation Manual
PHRD                Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMG                 Priority Mission Group
PRSC                Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAC                 Royal Academy of Cambodia
RSA                 Royal School of Administration
SEDP                Socio-Economic Development Plan
SG                  Secretary General
SRCS                Strategy to Reform Civil Service
TA                  Technical Assistance
TCAP                Technical Cooperation Action Plan
TCO                 Training Coordination Office
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UNTAC               United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
VSAT                Very Small Aperture Terminal
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum (EAPVP)
Country Manager/Director.  Ian C. Porter (EACTF)
Sector Manager/Director   Homi Kharas (EASPR)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager.   Su-Yong Song (EASPR)



CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              13
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              24
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   25
3. Benefits and target population                                                  26
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   26
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       28
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   29
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             31
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                33
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     33
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        33
2. Financial                                                                       34
3. Technical                                                                       34
4. Institutional                                                                   34
5. Environmental                                                                   36
6. Social                                                                          37
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              37
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  38
2. Critical risks                                                                  39
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  40



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation Conditions                                                          40
2. Effectiveness Conditions                                                        40
3. Disbursement Conditions                                                         41
3. Other                                                                           42
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        42
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       43
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        44
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           57
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               74
Annex 10:Country at a Glance                                                           76
Annex 11 :Detailed Description of Capacity Building Programs                          78
Annex 12:GDLN Feasibility Study                                                       92



CAMBODIA
Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASPR
Date: May 23, 2002                         Team Leader: Su-Yong Song
Country Manager/Director: Ian C. Porter    Sector Manager/Director: Homi Kharas
Project ID: P071247                        Sector(s): BA - Civil Service Reform, BF -
Public Financial Management, BI - Institutional
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit Development
(TAC)
Theme(s): Capacity building of the public sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    I x ] Credit  [ ]Grant    [ jGuarantee     [ jOther:
For Loans/Credits/Others
Amount (US$m): $5.50
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                 Local       Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                         0.17         0.09         0.26
IDA                                              2.05         3.45         5.50
Financing Gap                                    0.00         0.00         0.00
Total                                            2.22         3.54         5.76
Borrower: Kingdom of Cambodia
Responsible agency: Council for Administrative Reform (CAR), Council of Ministers
Contact Person: H.E. Sum Manit, Secretary of State, Council of Ministers, Secretary General of CAR
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY       2003      2004     2005     2006
Annual    1.48     1.15     1.40     1.47
Cumulative   1.48     2.63     4.03     5.50
Project Implementation period: 08/01/2002 - 06/30/2006
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2002  Expected closing date: 6/30/2006



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project's development objective is to reduce poverty by enhancing the capability of the Cambodian
public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively. Poverty is deep and pervasive in Cambodia, the
legacy of almost three decades of armed conflict. This political upheaval left the country bereft of skilled
human resources, a problem that now seriously undermines government's capacity to fulfill its proper role
in the country's economic development.
With the formation of the Royal Government in 1993, significant first generation reforms focusing on
macroeconomic and fiscal management were initiated, resulting in robust economic progress and apparent
improvements in physical security. These vital reforms need to be continued and reinforced. But to
achieve the broad-based growth necessary for significant poverty reduction, a second generation of
reforms that build state capacity and strengthen governance institutions must now be undertaken.
Government's ability to formulate and implement sound policies and to deliver essential public services
to address the needs of the poor depends, in large part, on the capabilities of its public officials.
The acute shortage of skills in Cambodia's post-conflict government that hobbles its ability to play this
crucial role in poverty alleviation must be overcome. Inevitably, this undertaking is a long term process;
it will take many years and a series of external assistance interventions to accomplish. Helping Cambodia
on this agenda will involve a coordinated effort to shift civil service incentives to a sustainable basis and
to create systems of accountable and transparent governance. Support for this multi-year program may
include ongoing analysis, technical assistance, adjustment, investment, and dialogue.
This Project begins this process. It will provide a jump-start to capacity building through immediate
bridge support for skill enhancement in key reform areas, with an appropriate degree of participation of
female civil servants. The Project will build capacity among a targeted cadre of executive and legislative
officials to carry out urgent and essential development tasks, while the basis for longer-term institutional
development is being established. This small operation will emphasize behavioral and technical training
and knowledge transfer along with systematic, on-the-job learning for government staff. The Project is
intended as a catalyst to spur the gradual substitution of Cambodians for the expatriate advisors who now
proliferate in a wide range of government functions. The Project will pilot this approach that could be
replicated and expanded in follow-on phases, conditional upon the satisfactory outcome of the operation.
A hallmark of the Project is to introduce innovative approaches to extend the reach of capacity building
by leveraging new technologies, such as a Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) facility.
From the outset, the Project will also seek to distinguish itself from traditional training interventions by
focusing major attention on impact and results. Its success will be determined by measurable
improvements in Cambodian staff skills, monitorable retention of trained officials in key government
positions after project completion, and assessments of the contribution of capacity building initiatives to
raising the quality of outputs and, where possible, outcomes on the ground in policy and service delivery
activities.
The limitations on this approach are also explicitly recognized; without significant improvements in the
incentive framework for the civil service, long-term performance improvements will be difficult to
achieve. This issue will be tackled mainly in the context of an upcoming Public Expenditure Review
(PER), Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and a potential Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC). The Board discussed the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) on January 23,
2001 (Document number IDA/SecM200 1-0022).
-2-



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The ultimate objective of civil service reform activities is to improve national welfare through improved
delivery of public sector programs and services. Improved effectiveness and efficiency in such programs
is dependent on improvement in managerial and operational systems and in the quality of personnel
responsible for delivering government programs under these systems. If improved standards of service
delivery are to be achieved, previous practices have to become more effective and efficient and skill gaps
have to be remedied. In this context, the proposed Project will seek to achieve the following key
outcomes/impacts:
* Expanded exposure to and knowledge for selected Cambodian civil servants of international public
administration practice with particular emphasis on the range of managerial techniques being used to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public sector programs within the region and globally.
*  Better managerial and technical skills of targeted Cambodian staff to support improvements in policy
development, management, and formulation and implementation of main reform initiatives,
including: public finance reform, civil service reform, and governance reform.
*  Strengthened capacity of key training institutions to provide quality training activities to Cambodian
civil servants on an ongoing basis, and of policy development institutions for financial management
and human resource management.
* Access to distance learning through GDLN that provides innovative, timely, and cost-effective
development learning opportunities (e.g., seminars and dialogues on international and regional best
practice) not only to Cambodia's public sector but also to civil society and the private sector.
*  Building capacity of Cambodian nationals with a view to substituting Cambodian nationals for
expatriate advisers in key policy formulation and implementation.
*  Retention of trained public officials in the civil service after completion of training program.
In order to achieve these objectives, the current Project is structured to yield the following outputs by the
end of the Project:
*  a cohort of gender balanced senior executives and parliamentarians who have strengthened their
leadership and management skills to formulate government policies and guide public sector and
governance reform initiatives ( up to 300 participants).
*  groups of gender balanced middle managers who have enhanced technical knowledge and skills to
implement key public sector reforms, which should ultimately result in improved public service
delivery (up to 400 participants ).
*  groups of gender balanced junior professionals who have improved their technical skills and policy
skills to support the works of senior executives and managers (up to 100 participants ).
*  groups of provincial officials who gained knowledge and skills to manage deconcentration, budget
management, and procurement (up to 200 senior officials and 400 middle managers).
*  enhanced institutional and human resource capacity of key civil service training institutions, and of
key policy development institutions for financial management and human resource management.
*  a newly established GDLN center that can offer development learning tools and opportunities for
innovative capacity building activities in a cost effective manner through seminars and policy
dialogues on international and regional best practice for public institutions, NGOs, and the private
sector.
It is difficult to define performance indicators that clearly link training activities and subsequently
improved performance in the workplace, because many factors are at play in the workplace. Improved
performance may be observed over time (and beyond the life of the Project) but a causal link with training
can be difficult to demonstrate. Training design, such as the use of action learning methodologies related
-3-



to workplace reform issues, as envisaged in this Project, can strengthen the likelihood of performance
improvement arising from the training program.
The only readily available measurable indicators for a project such as this will be intermediate in
character. These would cover key input and output data related to the implementation of the training
program, but cannot include data on outcomes, such as the extent of performance improvement in the
workplace, and ultimately the improvement in the quality of service delivery.
Key measurable performance indicators and benchmarks (Attachment I to Annex 1) will therefore be
related to the delivery of training programs, covering:
*  The number of people trained under each Program, and progressive totals
*  The number of inception workshops for Priority Mission Groups (PMG)
*  Data on numbers attending and completing (i.e., passed exams and/or obtained certificates)
Management Development Program (MDP) and Professional Development Program (PDP)
*  Extent of participation of female officials in training programs
*  Participant feedback information on quality of Programs and delivery and support arrangements
*  Program cost information and comparisons
*  Extent of involvement of expatriate and local trainers
*  Use of training materials translated into Khmer language
*  Expansion of the use of HRMIS in the government
*  Development and use of a macro/financial model and expenditure monitoring instruments
*  Use of GDLN under each Program, and progressive totals
*  Extent to which the GDLN center business plan will have achieved its targets
Furthermore, tracking the subsequent career path of participants in the structured programs (MDP and
PDP) is essential to gauge the effectiveness of the Project. For one, it is important to know how better
trained staff are used in the workplace and whether their new skills encourage and underpin further
advancement. For another, there is a concern that better trained staff may leave the civil service for better
paid jobs elsewhere. Therefore, a critical performance indicator should be whether a significant portion of
trained staff will be retained in government service. This could be done by tracking the subsequent career
moves of MDP and PDP participants, and providing analytical quantitative data on a regular basis (see
Attachment I to Annex I for the benchmarks of those measurable indicators). One way this could be done
is by utilizing the recently developed Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) to
include coverage of data relevant to this issue. The current Project will provide institutional strengthening
support for extension of HRMIS. Therefore, one key measurable performance indicator is:
* Retention of trained public officials measured by tracking the subsequent career moves of MDP and
PDP participants, and providing analytical quantitative data on a regular basis.
A monitoring mechanism for key performance indicators, such as through HRMIS, will be established for
this Project. Once the training begins, relevant indicators will be compiled regularly, and made available,
on a quarterly basis. The Training Coordinator will be responsible for ensuring that these indicators are
compiled and circulated on a regular basis. In addition, there will be an annual evaluation of training
components.
-4-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20077-KH Date of latest CAS discussion: February 29, 2000
The Project supports the CAS goal to build the foundations for sustainable development and poverty
reduction. The CAS states that capacity building elements will be integrated into all interventions, with
an emphasis on knowledge transfer and the development of long term skills and leadership qualities. The
proposed Project will contribute directly to the key areas of CAS focus: (a) supporting good governance
with public sector reform including civil service restructuring; (b) greater access of the poor to basic
social services and economic opportunities; and (c) rebuilding human capital by investing in skills
development that will contribute to institutional capacity and good governance. The Board discussed the
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) on January 23, 2001 (Document number
IDA/SecM2001-0022).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. Following the Paris Peace Accord in 1991 and general elections under the UNTAC in
1993, a coalition Government was formed under a new Constitution promulgated in late 1993. Since then
the Government's public sector reforms have focused primarily on the first generation of reform, i.e.,
achieving macroeconomic stability and improving fiscal management. These reform efforts achieved
reasonable success in containing inflation and restoring fiscal discipline. Since 1996, however, the
reform efforts weakened significantly due partly to conflicts between the two coalition parties.
A new coalition Government was formed in November 1998. This, along with a mass defection and
eventual collapse of the Khmer Rouge, finally brought the highest levels of political stability, security and
peace in Cambodia ever achieved in the last three decades. Since its inception, the new Government
demonstrated strong commitment to developing and implementing economic and social policies with a
focus on poverty reduction.
To help reduce poverty, improving public service delivery for the poor is essential. The major challenge
facing the Cambodian government now is to formulate and implement the second generation of reform,
emphasizing, in particular, improvements in pubic financial management and public administration,
moving toward good governance, and strengthening government capacity for poverty-focused policy
formulation. These reform efforts should build on the achievements made during the first generation of
reform in the 1990s. This second generation of institutional reform should include efforts to rationalize
organizational structures and streamline business processes as well as to provide adequate incentives and
training for public officials. Such initiatives should improve government's capacity to deliver public
services to the poor with greater efficiency and effectiveness.
Government strategy. The new Government committed itself to institutional reforms on multiple fronts.
At the Consultative Group Meeting in February 1999, the Government highlighted key reform sectors,
including demobilization of the military, fiscal and financial reforms, public administrative reforms, and
forestry management. In addition, legal and judicial reforms and the strengthening of good governance
were also incorporated in the group of key reforms.
Since 1999 the Government has made some important progress in public sector reforms:
* Civil service reform. Development of the National Program for Administrative Reform (NPAR) has
been the mandate of the Council for Administrative Reform (CAR). The NPAR was approved by the
Council of Ministers in March 2000. The stated aim of NPAR has been to proceed with a three-
-5-



phased reform process: (i) building the foundations to better manage the civil service and sustain the
course of reforms; (ii) reorganization and redeployment to enhance productivity; and (iii)
strengthening and rationalizing capacity. Significant progress has been made on the first phase.
Achievements include the completion of a civil service census and important steps toward the full
computerization of the personnel information system, providing a more reliable basis on which
subsequent reform efforts can be built. These efforts have already contributed to the elimination of
approximately 9000 ghosts from the payroll. Reinforcing linkages between this personnel database
and treasury functions will be important to ensuring the robustness of this system.
Strategy to Reform Civil Service (SRCS). The Government presented a draft medium-term Strategy
to Reform Civil Service (SRCS) at the Tokyo CG meeting in June 2001. After presenting the
document to donor partners, the Council of Ministers approved the SRCS and circulated it at a donor
meeting in October 2001. Two elements of the strategy have been legally authorized and are in the
process of being implemented: (i) a new classification system; and (ii) a new remuneration regime. A
third element, the Priority Mission Group Program, is to be launched shortly. Three other initiatives
are also in train for implementation from 2003: (i) deconcentration of public services, (ii) human
resource development, and (iii) further computerization of the civil service with regard to the HRMIS.
The Government's concern has been to focus efforts on the core ministries for poverty reduction
(education, health, agriculture and rural development), particularly emphasizing the need to provide
support for civil servants working directly in provinces (over 60% of civil servants). While
acknowledging the very low level of remuneration for these workers, Government's policy is to
adjust civil service remuneration upward on a modest basis, recognizing the cap imposed at higher
levels by relativities with compensation for elected officials and political appointees and wary of the
potential reverberations of pay hikes for other public service workers, including military and police.
Moreover, the employment reductions that would be required to finance higher levels of pay,
particularly at higher professional levels, have been rejected as politically infeasible before national
elections, tentatively scheduled for mid-2003. The new remuneration policy has improved salaries on
average by 38%, but this starts from a very low level, leaving still a highly compressed ratio of top-
to-bottom salaries.
The main thrust of the pay and employment scenario the Government proposed in June 2001
comprises: (1) raising average base salaries across the service from $24 per month in 2001 to $52 per
month in 2006; (2) increasing education employees by 14,000 (16%) and reducing non-education
employees by 13,500 (18%) between 2001-2006 thereby maintaining constant the total level of
employment; and (3) largely self financing the wage bill, with some subsidization through the priority
mission group scheme described below.
Under the SRCS, the Government is enhancing its current allowance system to provide allowances to
compensate for special conditions associated with selected positions, such as risk, remoteness, and
other difficulties. Allowances of $200 with the introduction of Category AA will complement take-
home pay of some 500 senior officials.
Priority Mission Group Program. As part of the SRCS, the Government has also proposed the
creation of priority mission groups (PMGs), a tool intended to help ministries and councils accelerate
their reform agenda through the mobilization of a highly motivated cadre of civil servants who can
rise above current civil service performance standards to implement key development programs with
greater energy, skill and dedication. In particular, the program is seen as a means by which to kick-
start crucial anti-poverty initiatives. According to the current proposal, the Government will select
1,000 PMG members in 2002 and 500 members each year from 2003 and 2006, specifically to
implement the government's reform agenda (Governance Action Plan, SEDPII and PRSP) and to
-6-



improve the delivery of public services. PMGs members will be paid additional incentive allowances
aimed at raising on-the-job performance, to be specified in their contracts. Provisions to withhold
these allowances in light of poor performance have not been elaborated, however. The members will
receive incentive allowances of $150 for grade A, $100 for grade B, and $50 for grade C. The 2002
National Budget allocated initial funding for PMGs.
The Government's intention is that the PMG program be flexible in order to accommodate the needs
of individual ministries and potential external partners. The plan is to establish core principles to
guide PMG activities across sectors. These principles include: (i) performance criteria set at the
outset; (ii) a focus on team performance; (iii) transparent selection of PMG staff; and (iv)
participatory monitoring and accountability measures. The UNDP has been supporting this activity
with the help of a series of technical assistance missions.
* Public finance reform - Reorienting expenditures towards key social and economic sectors and
enhancing the effectiveness of the expenditure management system. In particular, the Government
introduced a Priority Action Program (PAP) to enhance cash disbursement to key social and
economic sectors (Health, Education, Agriculture and Rural Development). The budget reform has
been gathering pace recently in two directions: (1) a move from pre-audit to post-audit is being
piloted through Sub-Decree 92 (October 2001), under which financial controllers at Ministry of
Health and Ministry of Education are to be located in the provincial offices and commitment ceilings
are likely to be on a quarterly rather than a monthly basis; and (2) the TCAP Program (IMF, ADB,
UNDP) is promoting a move to program budgeting and a medium term expenditure framework is
being experimented. These developments create major capacity building needs both in the MEF and
in line ministries as well as in provincial departments receiving new financial management
responsibilities. In addition, a National Audit Authority (NAA) was established in mid 2001 to carry
out external auditing of public institutions. While top executives have been appointed, the NAA has
yet to become operational.
On public procurement, the Government recently renewed its commitment to reform by issuing a
Prime Minister's Decision (December 10, 2001) requiring full implementation of public procurement
procedures in the four priority ministries (Agriculture, Health, Education and Rural Development)
and by a further commitment to extend the Decision to all ministries. Capacity building of
procurement staff at MEF, line ministries and provinces will be critical to strictly enforcing the Sub-
Decree.
* Governance reform - Completion of a diagnostic survey on anti-corruption and governance, and the
development of a Governance Action Plan (GAP) by the CAR. The GAP is a compendium of reform
actions to enhance governance, including cross-cutting reform areas (judicial and legal system, public
finance, public administration, deconcentration and decentralization, anti-corruption, and gender
equity), and sector-specific reform areas (military reform including demobilization, and natural
resources management in forestry, land and fishery). The Government adopted the GAP in March
2001, and established a network of reform councils and ministries to plan reform actions, and monitor
and report the progress of GAP in May 2001. In December 2001 a National Forum (chaired by the
Prime Minister) was held to launch a dissemination campaign of GAP, an anti-corruption diagnostic
study, and the NPAR for broad stakeholders in the Government and civil society.
* Poverty-focused policies and strategies - The Board discussed the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) on January 23, 2001 (Document number IDA/SecM2001-0022). The
Government also developed a Socio-Economic Development Plan II (SEDP-II). The SEDP II was
completed in December 2001 for adoption by the Cambodian Parliament. In addition, the
Government prepared a PRSP preparation status report in January 2002. Building on these, the
-7-



Government is preparing a full-PRSP to be completed by October 2002, followed by several regional
workshops.
Main issues. The Government has made important strides in a broad range of reform areas, but a number
of critical issues and challenges remain to be addressed over the coming years:
Leadership. management and policy
Two training needs assessments carried out in November 2001 and February 2002 revealed that there are
glaring deficits in leadership, management and policy skills in the civil service. These are difficult to
address in isolation. Skill development needs to be linked to organizational and cultural change and to the
implementation of pay and employment reforms to retain talent in govermment. Support for these changes
is needed at the highest levels of government. The focus of reforms must include a broad spectrum of
participants, especially younger staff with good long-term career prospects. It is also essential to involve
provincial officials fully. In addition to the executive branch, a selected number of parliamentarians are
also included. While the importance of training officials from the judicial branch is also acknowledged,
in view of the limited scope of the Project and the expected training of these officials under the proposed
Legal and Judicial Reform Project, they are not included in the training programs under this Project.
Civil service reform
Addressing low pay problem. Perhaps the most serious obstacle to improving civil service performance
is the lack of adequate incentives to motivate and retain talented, capable staff within the public
administration. Extremely low remuneration across grade levels saps morale throughout the civil service
and leads to high absenteeism, corruption and, particularly for skilled professionals, brain drain. The
failure to attract and retain essential skills in government is seriously aggravated by the large numbers of
donors and NGOs that compete for staff with the Government, offering compensation far above that
provided by government. The salary practices of donors since the early 1990s have become part of the
problem rather than the solution. To the extent that donors are supplementing particular civil servants'
salaries, they are undermining the development of a rational system of remuneration within government.
And, to the extent that donors are directly employing scarce talent in development projects that would
otherwise be available for core government employment, they are closing off the possibilities of longer
term institutional development within the civil service. Cambodia's economic, social and political
objectives would never be achieved without a robust civil service.
The Government has made progress in addressing civil service pay problems by developing the SRCS. In
laying out a multi-year framework and providing moderate pay raises to civil servants, it has taken an
important initial step toward reform.
But the current pay and employment scenario for 2002-2006 does not go far enough to solve Cambodia's
civil service problem. The plan envisages limited employment redistribution to emphasize education
expansion, but no total reduction. While overall employment numbers are not huge in relative terms, they
include vast contingents of unqualified patronage hires who are drawing (admittedly very low) salaries for
little productive work. Moreover, redundant functions and portfolios among non-education sectors also
carry surplus staff. Within the present aggregate wage bill envelope, the lack of any employment
adjustment has left government only with the option of extremely modest pay improvements that do not
raise or decompress pay enough to compete with the alternative (donor, private sector, and NGO) labor
markets. This option leaves the civil service with similar incentives that are now associated with
absenteeism, corruption, and poor performance.
-8-



To address the low pay problem, the Government could consider two types of approaches: (1) the self-
financing approach--a modest cut in employment to release funds for salary relief to achieve
competitiveness at higher civil service levels with NGOs, donors and the private sector; and (2) the
budget support approach--pooling donor resources now applied to salary supplements for a carefully
designed program of budget support and civil service management improvements. Under the second
approach, the balance between the cost for this program and government funding for civil service wages
could be funded by the donors' direct, recurrent budgetary support (grants) on a sunset basis, including
the mainstreaming of the current ad hoc salary supplementation provided to project staff.
Failure to adequately address this issue in the current SRCS would raise potential risks for this operation,
as the civil service would not be able to provide adequate incentives to motivate and retain trained
officials (particularly younger generation) at the time of the completion of the Project (see Section F.
Sustainability and Risks). While Government has not yet committed to immediate action on this agenda,
dialogue on a set of steps that would be necessary to prepare for reforms did advance in the appraisal
mission. As described below, agreement was reached with government on a robust program of analytic
work, including functional analysis, labor market and pay comparator studies, development of departure
and safety-net programs for employment transition, and analysis of possible financing options for civil
service pay improvements as discussed above. The result will be a refined medium-term civil service
reform plan that can be implemented in the post-electoral period.
Agreed work plan for analytical tasks. Building on activities already underway or planned, the
Government and IDA have agreed on steps that must be taken between May 2002 and August 2003 to
accelerate the civil service reform and prepare for follow-up measures to the strategy now being
implemented.
The common objectives of this action plan are to:
*  improve civil service pay so that it offers a broadly competitive wage in the labor market.
*  ensure that the size and shape of the civil service are financially sustainable and meet
organizational requirements (needs and means).
*  ensure that pay proposals have an agreed financing plan.
* ensure that the Government has the administrative machinery needed to implement its strategy
(e.g. separation mechanisms, training, public information campaign taking account of political,
social, and other requirements).
In collaboration with other donor agencies, IDA would support the Government to carry out the
following, via the ongoing PHRD grant and additional trust funds, etc., including facilitating discussions
amongst donors on the development of options for harmonizing and streamlining current donors'
remuneration practices:
*  Labor market analyses to determine the wages/benefits needed to be offered by the Government
to provide the incentives needed to recruit and retain well-qualified staff. (This may involve a
comparator pay survey, attitudinal surveys amongst staff and potential recruits, studies of private
sector/NGO/government markets.)
*  Conduct studies to determine the appropriate institutional arrangements, organization, processes,
and staffing of government functions to improve efficiency and effectiveness. (This will be a
targeted exercise, conducted urgently in order to inform the rest of the program.)
-9-



* Develop options to accelerate increases in remuneration to competitive levels beyond those
already planned and the introduction of performance based compensation in ways that would
maintain relativities within and between the different branches of the state. In this context, IDA
will investigate with donors the feasibility of pooled donor support and review current donor and
NGO pay policies and salary supplementation practices.
* Develop proposals for departure mechanisms; identification of staff to be separated;
administrative systems to support separations; communications; transition schemes and safety net
mechanisms, etc.
* All studies and proposals will take account of the ongoing process of decentralization and its
implications for pay and employmnent policy.
Utilizing these studies, the Government will further develop its reform program, undertaking the
following:
*  Accelerate pay and employment reforn that provides for competitive wages for the civil service.
*  Establish financing mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of pay and employment policy.
*  Establish mechanisms to support a well-managed transition.
*  CAR will act as an oversight committee to monitor, evaluate, and report progress. The CAR will
meet the donor group on Public Administration Reform once every quarter to report progress and
discuss issues arising.
*  The CAR will, upon completion of this program in August 2003, prepare a medium-term plan to
implement these reforms.
Clarifying the role and the scope of PMGs. The PMG program could be a useful stimulus to civil service
performance if *t is well designed and tightly focused. There are dual objectives currently assigned to
PMGs; that is, (i) to catalyze change; and (ii) to become mechanisms for modest pay reform. PMGs need
to act primarily as change catalysts, working as small teams from within individual ministries to trigger
better management practices and more effective approaches to service delivery. This role is best suited
for the relatively small number of staff to be mobilized in PMGs. It also makes sense to carry this out on
a limited, pilot basis in a few critical areas. The Government is finalizing documentation and duties that
would clarify the nature and scope of the PMGs. A pilot PMG will be formed at CAR soon, and a few
PMGs are expected to be formed in the first half of 2002.
Strengthening human resource management. The Government's ability to monitor, manage and develop
civil service personnel is crucial to the improvement of financial management and service delivery. In
addition, given the important role that CAR's Human Resource Development (HRD) Unit has in the
delivery and management of the Project, strengthening its capacity is urgent and essential. In this regard,
many aspects regarding the strategic use of human resource management could be strengthened, such as:
(i) human resource planning (use of human resource management informnation system (HRMIS)); (ii)
staffing rules and practices (appointments, transfers, motivation); (iii) remuneration system; (iv)
performnance management (performance appraisals, accountability); (v) human resource development
plans; and (vi) cooperation and teamwork in the workplace. The recent progress on the development of a
computerized payroll system was an important step forward. However, this should be extended from the
CAR to other key ministries with adequate training in the use of HRMIS. In addition, the Cambodian
civil service training institutions should be significantly strengthened to improve and sustain training
programs for many generations of civil servants to come.
-10-



Public finance reform
Decentralizing budget management. Reducing central control and establishing budget management
responsibilities in spending ministries and sub national levels of government is the core element in the
Govermnent financial management reform program. This will encourage more streamlined, responsive,
and transparent budget execution. The Government is piloting budget management centers at the national
level in major hospitals and at sub national levels in provinces and districts.
Effective operation of the new budget management centers, particularly at the sub national level of
government, requires a set of skills for which there is little opportunity to develop under the current
highly centralized budget arrangements. These skills include planning for the cost effective use of budget
funds and monitoring of the way in which funds are spent and benefits generated.
A closely related problem at sub national levels of government is the ineffective operation of procurement
committees that approve larger disbursements. These procurement committees lack skills in costing and
in the timely management of their work-loads resulting in long delays in procurement.
These problems in financial management can be ameliorated by capability building in management
budget and procurement.
Another set of problems is linked with budget preparation. Since detailed spending patterns are set at the
central level rather than by spending agencies themselves, they do not reflect information about the actual
benefits generated in each spending line. MEF central budget staff are remote from this level of detail,
and base budget allocations on historical precedent, modified by an adjustment factor that is normally
impenetrable to the spending agency.
Nor is information on the benefits of spending collected by line agencies. In this rule-driven environment,
the benchmark of good line agency management has been to preserve or increase historical levels of
funding in each budget line rather than to make funding levels more responsive to client need, target
programs more effectively, deliver existing services with less resources, or identify areas in which the
level of services needs to be improved. Agencies given little responsibility for the way in which they
spend their funds take little responsibility for spending their funds better.
Strengthening capability in this area has potentially large benefits for the participants in Government
programs without requiring increased overall Government spending.
Enhancing skills of spending units. Reducing central control through a shift from a pre-audit to a post-
audit (program budget) system requires spending units to take more responsibility for managing their
budgets in an effort to improve program results (i.e., less control by MEF, and within ministries less
control by the central ministry over regional spending units). This points to the need for spending units at
all levels (in particular, provinces and districts) to acquire new financial management skills. However,
there is little reason or opportunity for spending units to develop better internal management systems and
competencies while highly centralized arrangements continue. The absence of such systems and
competencies, on the other hand, is a major obstacle to relaxing the central controls and giving weakly
managed spending units increased responsibilities.
Improving performance of public procurement. This is critical to the success of service improvement
through the deconcentration and decentralization processes being pursued by the Government. The GAP
lists procurement as a key area for improved use of resources, greater transparency and better governance.
Currently, public procurement is governed by a detailed set of regulations and the 1995 Sub-Decree
Governing Public Procurement. Although periodic amendments have been made to reduce loopholes,
-1 1-



they have instead added further red tape and complexity to the procurement administration. Complex
clearance processes also offer additional opportunities for corruption. As the Government made a political
commitment to procurement through the recent Prime Minister's Decision on procurement discussed
earlier, capacity building of procurement staff at MEF, line ministries, and provinces will be critical to
strictly implementing the 1995 Sub-Decree.
Governance reform
Monitoring and coordinating the implementation of the Governance Action Plan. Reform agencies (the
CAR and other reform councils and ministries) are tasked to plan, monitor and coordinate the
implementation of GAP. It is critical that they develop and strengthen capacity to monitor the progress of
reform by developing objective benchmarks and indicators, and to prioritize and sequence reform actions
with costing.
Raising awareness and prevent corruption.  A World Bank-supported diagnostic study "Cambodia
Governance and Corruption Diagnostic: Evidence from Citizen, Enterprise, and Public Official Surveys"
(May 2000) showed that households perceived corruption in the public sector as one of the most serious
constraints to development. In addition, public officials perceived their low salaries as the main cause of
corruption. As a result, training of civil servants is needed to raise awareness about, and prevent, corrupt
activities. In this regard, the Government is in the progress of widely disseminating the diagnostic study.
A National Forum on governance and anti-corruption for high-level government officials was conducted
in December 2001 and provincial workshops are currently underway. It is essential for the Government
to ensure extensive dissemination of the study, involving not only government officials but also other
stakeholders such as civil society, NGOs, the press, the private sector, and donors. In addition, long-
delayed legislation on anti-corruption needs to be prepared as a matter of urgency.
Promoting deconcentration and decentralization. The Government is pursuing deconcentration, a move
of responsibilities from the central bodies to the ministries, and within ministries from the center to the
provincial level. Deconcentration holds out the prospects for improvement in the delivery of services, and
has broad implications for other governance improvements including financial reform, procurement, and
corruption issues. The Government's policy to decentralize functions to the commune level also
introduces a wider range of issues for civil service management. The move to place governance
responsibility with the 1,621 communes will only be successful if it is accompanied by the right skills and
participatory and transparent practices. The commune councils, elected in February 2002, will eventually
be responsible for development plans and the delivery of some services. As of now, they have very few
tools to manage these activities. The administrative, financial and planning capacity of the communes will
need to be developed through provincial and district levels.
Poverty-focused policies and strategies
The Government needs to formulate policies and programs more sharply focused on poverty reduction.
The Government is in the process of preparing a full PRSP. Based on the I-PRSP and the SEDP II, the
Government needs to develop a poverty reduction action plan that translates sectoral strategies into
concrete policy and program priorities; establishes a link to the recurrent and investment budgets; sets up
a monitoring and evaluation mechanism; and embraces a fully participatory approach. Experience so far
clearly indicates that the authorities have weak institutional capacity and inadequate inter-ministerial
coordination.
-12-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Project will assist the Goverrment in strengthening the capability of public agencies to
formulate and implement key reform programs and deliver key public services more effectively. It will
underpin the development of a culture of change and reform, by improving leadership, management and
policy skills. In particular, it will enhance working level skills in budget management, human resource
management, and govemance to achieve the overarching goal of poverty reduction. The Project will
make Cambodian officials more aware of best practice approaches in other countries, through carefully
structured programs of training and development. It will also address the need and expectations of public
sector customers and Cambodian society by improving public services, while promoting good govemance
by increasing the standards of transparency and accountability and supporting the fight against corruption.
This Project will pilot a new approach to capacity building with action learning methods and distance
leaming with the introduction of GDLN (see page 19, Annex 12). The Project aims to serve as a bridge
toward larger, more comprehensive public sector reforms that need to be articulated in the future. While
the Project would have an important impact on developing core professional skills among government
staff for key development tasks in the absence of significant civil service pay reform, the Govemment
may have difficulty retaining trainees in government. Low salaries in the public sector could lead to a
brain drain of newly trained staff into the donor, private or NGO sectors - in Cambodia or abroad.
IDA has raised this concem in its discussions with the Govemment, seeking assurance that the
Govemment will have meaningful plans to address this issue in the near term. It is further recognized that
the capacity of the civil service to carry out poverty reduction programs would be seriously compromised
without pay relief, especially for professional cadres. As described earlier, the Govemment and IDA
agreed on the steps that constitute an action plan on civil service pay and employment reforn by August
2003.
Outline ofproposed training prograns
Time frame: The implementation of the proposed Project will be sequenced over 4 years starting from
mid 2002. The first nine months will be allocated for curriculum development and detailed planning for
the delivery of the training programs, including negotiations with external providers selected through
competitive bidding. Within this time period and as early as possible, the training coordinator will be
selected and take up his responsibility for training implementation. In addition, specific workshops and
seminars may begin by September 2002 to meet immediate training needs.
Training needs: The training needs assessments carried out in November 2001 and February 2002
identified six categories of training needs relevant to the Cambodian civil service, and related to the
Government's reform agenda and programs described below. Specific curriculum will be developed for
each category, with due consideration to the progress of reform programs during the duration of the
Project (see below and Annex 11 for more detailed training contents): (1) Leadership and management
practices; (2) Policy development and implementation; (3) Public financial management; (4) Human
resource management; (5) Govemance and public administration; and (6) Poverty reduction.
Target groups and Programs: The Project aims to build capacity of three target groups--Executives,
Managers and Professionals. For each target group and program, an appropriate degree of participation of
female civil servants will be ensured. In addition, the Project will include joint training with the
legislative branch of the Government, as a means to achieve good governance, especially in the context of
the upcoming participatory PRSP process. This will include training in the areas of leadership and
management, financial management, and poverty reduction. Participation of parliamentarians and their
staffers is planned to amount to 5-10 percent of total participation. The Project will also pay special
-13-



attention to training delivery to officials at the provincial level. This will be particularly pronounced in the
area of public financial management in which the capacity building of spending units at provincial levels
is critical to the success of ongoing budget management reforms (financial decentralization) and in the
area of deconcentration. The proposed Project will provide a means of synchronizing the devolution of
control to spending units and the acquisition of financial management skills by those units. Based on the
training needs of the respective target groups, three training programs will be developed during the first
nine months of project implementation (see Table 1 for a summary of each Program):
* Advanced Executive Program (AEP)for the Executive Group
This Program is designed for higher-level Government officials who have a significant role in
introducing and managing change in key reform areas, and in achieving desirable outcomes in
service delivery under new policies. The Program will be linked strongly with the Government's
reform program and activities. In particular, the Program will have a clear focus on improving the
leadership and management skills of this group, so as to improve the prospects of success with
reform activities. A selected number of parliamentarians will also participate in this program. The
Program will comprise a series of Executive Seminars, and a provision for selective high-level
seminars at the political level of the Government. There would be about 4 seminars per year, for
about 30 to 40 participants. The GDLN will be used to provide part of these seminar activities. In
addition, short-term programs and courses would also be provided.
* Management Development Program (MDP)for the Management Group
This Program is designed for officials engaged in, on a day-to-day basis, the implementation of
Government reform programs and projects, and who need to upgrade their management skills to
make a greater contribution to reform in the future. The Program is planned to help develop a
stronger management orientation in key parts of the Cambodian civil service and to support the
decisive implementation of concrete economic and public sector reforms, and improved service
delivery. This Program will have linkages with the Government's Priority Mission Group (PMG)
initiative. PMG participants will be encouraged to undertake this Program. The Program will
comprise both regular coursework (on a part-time basis) and appropriate occasional workshops.
Up to 400 participants will participate. Training will be provided to "teams" of about 20
participants at a time (up to 20 teams in total).
* Professional Development Program (PDP)for the Professionals Group
This Program is designed for those officials below management level who work in professional
areas and who undertake policy preparation and implementation work on reform activities under
the guidance of senior managers. This Program aims to help junior professionals - with potential
to become future policy makers - become more strategic in their thinking and rigorous in their
analysis and monitoring of policy issues. The first priority will be given to developing and
upgrading policy formulation skills. The Program will comprise both regular coursework (on a
part-time basis) and appropriate occasional workshops relevant to the Program. There will be up
to 100 participants, made up of groups of 15 to 20 participants.
-14-



Table 1. Proposed Program Structure
Group Name             Target Group              Program             Supplementary Workshops
Executive            SGs and DSGs               Advanced Executive
(Selected SSs and USSs);  Program (AEP)                        IR1
DGs and DDGs;                                          (High level seminars)
Governors of
province/municipality
Selected MPs
Management           Director of Cabinet;       Management
Directors and Department  Development                          El
Directors;                Program (MDP)
Deputy Governors of       (including PMG
province/municipality;    inception
Governors and Deputy      workshops)
Governors of district;
Chiefs and Deputy Chiefs of
Bureau;
Chiefs of Cabinet;
Senior Technical staff
Selected Parliamentary staff
Professionals        Junior Professionals       Professional
(graduates with some      Development
experience in government  Program (PDP)
e.g., 3-5 years)          (including PMG
inception
workshops)
Note: SGs (Secretary Generals), DSGs (Deputy Secretary Generals), DGs (Director Generals), DDGs (Deputy Director Generals);
some high level seminars under AEP may be appropriate for attendance by higher level political officials (Secretaries of State, Under-
Secretaries of State).
-15-



Contents of Training Program:
Leadership and Management Practice
Leadership and management practice will focus on personal and organizational leadership skills,
supervisory skills, strategic planning, results-based management, organizational reform and development,
and the concepts of modem management, including gender issues. Change management concepts and
practices will need to be included as these are important in implementing reforms. This area will focus
mainly on the AEP and the MDP groups.
For the MDP group, the coverage will tend to focus more on organizational structures and methods, work
organization, and project management. Practical issues of work allocation and programming, delegations
of responsibility, and task management will also be covered.
Policy Development and Implementation
Policy development and implementation focuses on policy analysis, formulation, the policy approval
process, policy implementation, and monitoring and evaluation needed to review progress and results.
This category will focus particularly on the PDP group.
Public Financial Management
Public financial management will focus on budget planning and implementation issues, financial
accounting, controls and accountability, public procurement, and the use of information technology in
financial management particularly at the sub national levels of Government. A further important focus of
the training will be refocusing program managers on the results of their programs against Government
objectives and identification of options for improving results within existing budget parameters. There
will be a greater focus on financial management for the MDP and the PDP groups.
For the MDP group, the focus will be on basic training in financial management and planning, the role of
budget processes, public procurement, and the use of financial information and controls.
For the PDP program, the training objective will not be to provide extensive specialized training in fiscal
practices and execution but to inculcate an understanding of the relevance of modem public sector
financial management highlighting differences from existing international practice in Cambodia. This will
draw on international best practice that could be relevant to Cambodia.
Human Resource Management
Human resource management will focus on strategic human resource management practices and issues,
managing performance, working relationships and teams, selection, appointment and development
policies, back office employment relations practices, personal efficiency issues, and the use of
information technology (HRMIS). This category will focus on the MDP and PDP groups.
For the MDP group, focus will be specific and practical. Some exposure to the more strategic issues of
HRM will be provided, but this training will be more concerned with the performance of human resources
in the workplace through better work allocation, team-work and motivation and engagement of junior
staff.
For the PDP group, the focus will be on the strategic use of HRM as well as specifics such as
appointments, transfers, motivation and performance, supervision, and guidance.
-16-



Governance and Public Administration
Governance and Public Administration will focus on good governance, decentralization and
deconcentration, communications and participation methods, compliance with civil service legislation and
standards, and ethics and anti-corruption. This area will be particularly emphasized for the AEP group.
For this group, there is a need for this program to build a greater awareness of the policy implications of
the Governance Action Plan (GAP) and the civil service legislation and principles and actions on ethics
and anti-corruption. In addition, participants in this program need to gain broad knowledge of and a deep
understanding of governance issues, with a view to formulating and designing future governance policies
and reforms in Cambodia.
Poverty Reduction
Poverty reduction will focus on improving the understanding of poverty frameworks and poverty-focused
policy formulation, analysis, planning, and implementation and monitoring, including gender equity. This
area will focus on developing strategic abilities in the design and improvement of government programs,
appropriate implementation of poverty-oriented reforms, and the efficient use of funds within programs.
Poverty-focused content will include analyzing poverty reduction objectives, identifying cross-sectoral
linkages and their tradeoffs in the context of poverty reduction, financing and designing service delivery
options for teaching.
Target agencies: Public officials for these three target groups will be selected from the following
ministries and agencies that play a critical role in key reform programs. An appropriate degree of
participation of female civil servants will be sought in the selection of trainees, with an effort to ensure
that women are not only selected from social ministries but also from the targeted policy coordination and
economic line ministries listed below:
*  policy coordination ministries and agencies (Council for Administrative Reform, Economy and
Finance, Planning, Council for Development of Cambodia, and Reform Councils);
*  social ministries (Health, Education, Social Affairs, and Women's and Veterans Affairs);
* economic line ministries (Agriculture, Rural Development, Transport, and Commerce); and
* members of the National Assembly and their staffers concerned with parallel substantive issues.
Once the Government's priority mission groups (PMGs) are formed with clearly defined missions and
work schedules, the Project aims to provide training for the PMGs to the extent possible within the
limited scope and focus of this small operation.
Training modality: The mode of training will go beyond conventional classroom type training courses
with a curriculum. It will take an action learning approach that emphasizes on-the-job learning and
improvement through assignments and projects directly related to current work priorities.
Since action learning is a new mode of training for Cambodia, in particular for civil service staff
development, an external consulting service will be provided for the preparation and implementation of
training programs. Foreign consultants will team up with the appropriate Cambodian counterparts in the
training institutions to develop training curricula of international standards that is directly relevant to the
Cambodian context. The main training materials will be translated into Khmer language so that the
command of foreign language is not a barrier to the capacity building of qualified candidates.
The delivery of training programs will also require participation of foreign trainers (at least at the initial
phase) because action leaning methods will be new to the majority of local trainers. The involvement of
-17-



foreign trainers will phase out over the course of the Project, as local trainers gain experience in new
teaching methods and build capacity to deliver courses independently. Given this, it is important that the
TORs' of foreign trainers explicitly specify knowledge and skills transfer to local trainers as part of their
responsibilities, and the local assumption of responsibilities will be closely monitored as a performance
indicator of the operation.
Partnership arrangements: The nature of the training programs and the teaching methods proposed under
the Project will present important new challenges. Extemal advisory services will be necessary for
curriculum development, training delivery planning, initial delivery of the courses and the identification
and development of local trainers. A partnership model will have value and more than one partner will be
involved, because a diversity of expertise is needed. Internationally reputable civil service training
institutions and/or regional universities will be identified as partners of CAR through a process of
competitive bidding.
Participation and networkin: The Project is expected to increase networking and communications
between government officials. An alumni approach to maintain contact and "recall" meetings is
envisaged. It is important to ensure that gender is effectively mainstreamed during implementation and
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. In addition, it is expected that the quality of dialogue and
networking externally will be enhanced by the global nature of the GDLN, facilitating consultation and
sharing of experiences.
Oualifications: It would be desirable to provide an officially recognized diploma or certificate for
participants of MDP and PDP. This should be explored with Cambodian authorities as the Project
proceeds.
Training curriculum: The curricula will be differentiated among the three proposed programs, although
there will be inter-linkage and some common areas of coverage. For AEP, curriculum will be designed to
address specific reform challenges or policy issues they are or will be facing at their level. The objective
would be to create an environment where individuals could apply the training to on-the-job issues. For
MDP, the curriculum will be more practical and applied in nature, taking into account deficiencies in
office skills and workplace management. This training will focus on enhancing participants' knowledge
and skills that directly contribute to improving targeted service delivery.
Costs will be minimized by recognition of the similarities in topics to be covered, but differentiation in
degree would have to be recognized as well. To achieve this, the programs will be modular in character
and intended to allow those with specialist requirements to undertake more intensive training in those
areas through the use of supplementary specialized workshops. For example, additional elective units
could be provided in public financial management and in human resource management to assist with
more training in these areas.
Training delivery: Delivery of the training programs will be hosted by the Royal School of
Administration (RSA) and the Economics and Finance Institute (EFI), under agreed arrangements with
CAR as the executing agency. Existing areas of expertise would be relevant to a sensible division of
delivery of subjects, e.g., EFI for financial management oriented topics and RSA for the other topics. The
mode of training envisaged will go beyond classical classroom type training courses. It aims to match the
training being provided with the changing demands being placed on key officials and managers at the
relevant level of the government. Emphasis will be given to action learning, involving on-the-job
activities and improvement in workplace competencies through assignments and projects directly related
to current work priorities.
-18-



Institutional strengthening: Complementary to the training programs, this Project provides support for the
institutional development of some targeted agencies. This aims to strengthen their institutional capacity
vital to effective financial and human resource management. Those targeted agencies are: (a) CAR's
Human Resource Development Unit (HRD), including its Human Resource Management Information
System (HRMIS) initiative; (b) Economic and Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit (EFPPMU)
at MEF; and (c) Core civil service training institutions (RSA and EFI) in relation to training delivery
planning and implementation.
(a) CAR's HRD Unit and HRMIS initiative. The Government's ability to monitor, manage, and develop
its civil service is crucial to sound financial management and effective service delivery. Therefore, the
provision of technical assistance, training, and related equipment to CAR's HRD Unit is necessary to
ensure sound management and effective delivery of the Project. In addition, the development,
operationalization, and maintenance of a full-fledged Human Resources Management Information System
is critical to success. The planned HRMIS will not only support the payroll but also facilitate the control
and management of the workforce through the use of applications to: maintain the integrity of the
database developed through the census; plan, monitor and control staff movements; prepare and monitor
personnel budgets; and plan skill requirements and manage training.
Support to the HRMIS has the following main objectives: (i) institutionalizing the census and the
computerized payroll for central and provincial employees and ensuring that technical staff in the CAR
have the ability and means to maintain it; (ii) completing the HRMIS through the further development of
applications to manage the workforce and the development of human resources; (iii) deconcentrating the
HRMIS towards ministries to facilitate access and usage; and, (iv) strengthening the competency of
personnel in the operation and maintenance of the HRMIS.
(b) Economic and Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit (EFPPMU) at MEF. EFPPMU is
expected to serve as the center for a new strategic budget management system. The tasks and
responsibilities of the Unit will require highly competent staff with advanced technical skills as well as
exposure to best practices in regional and developed countries in relation to (i) macroeconomic modeling
and (ii) evaluation and monitoring methodologies. Strengthening the Unit to develop into a well-
functioning institution is critical for the success of budget reforrn in Cambodia. The Project will provide
specialized institutional support to the EFPPMU at MEF in relation to the areas referred to above.
(c) Institutional strengthening of core training institutions (RSA and EFI). The Project will assist the
institutional strengthening of RSA and EFI by their exposure to international partners and the practical
experience of hosting comprehensive training programs over the period of the Project. It was agreed that
within the Project there would be development of a pool of local trainers. These future trainers will be
given special development support and, as a condition of this support, they would be required to deliver a
certain number of courses at no cost to the institutions concerned. In addition, the Project will renovate,
furnish and equip the Training Coordination Office and two classrooms at the RSA for the use of the
training programs.
Global Development Learning Network (GDLN)
Jointly with the Government, the task team assessed the readiness of the GDLN component including: (1)
the Govermment's commitment and consensus; (2) findings from the financial feasibility study (based on
a market and cost analysis in Cambodia); (3) the status of consultation with donors for grant assistance;
(4) local connectivity options for developing future partnership arrangements within institutions within
Phnom Penh; and (5) the implementation plan for the GDLN center establishment. Based on the joint
assessments, it has been agreed that a GDLN center will be established under the EPSCB project.
-19-



Development Rationale
The Government's objectives regarding the dissemination of global development knowledge are strongly
aligned with those of the GDLN. The Government has voiced strong support of the GDLN concept as an
important vehicle to support the training and development agenda of the country.
The GDLN center will contribute to the development of Cambodia by:
* Providing its policy makers, government officials, academia, donors, the business sector, NGOs
and other development practitioners with the opportunity to engage in development related
dialogues with their counterparts in the region and around the world;
*  Expanding access to development management information and strengthening the capacity of
key-decision makers through ongoing consultation and training; and
* Establishing a resource capacity for the collection and distribution of learning products and
development information available within and outside of Cambodia.
Facility Design
The GDLN center will include two technology-based classrooms, a synchronous and asynchronous one,
connected to the switching hub in Washington through two-way multimedia facilities for video, data, and
voice exchange. Both classrooms will be outfitted with 30 computer stations (which includes hardware,
software, pedagogical tools, internet hook-up, and the installation and/or upgrading of electrical and
telephone wiring). There will also be administrative areas for the staff, which includes a reception, offices
and support facilities. A Documentation Center will be used as a depository of information (media and
documents) on development related issues for donors, NGOs, Government, and other development
practitioners. The Government has reviewed and discussed the technical proposal with IDA and an
agreement was reached on the facility design.
Global Connectivity
The World Bank explained to the Government that because the ISDN (Integrated Services Digital
Network) was not available, GDLN connectivity would based on the VSAT (Very Small Aperture
Terminal) satellite technology. As the new IP/Dama technologies are implemented, it is expected that
there will be additional cost efficiencies made available. These technologies are currently being piloted in
preparation for full implementation in the near future. The GDLN center will be designed with full
compatibility to the new IP technologies.
Local Connectivity Options
The GDLN center will have the appropriate technology to receive and/or deliver learning programs
through the network. As the designated "Hub", it will also have the capacity to receive selected programs
and redistribute them within Phnom Penh and the country as the network is expanded.
As a result of investigating local connectivity options, the Task Team concluded that local connectivity
between the GDLN center and subsequent nodes within Phnom Penh would be possible through a leased
line service as suggested by EFI.
The World Bank also noted that subsequent affiliate connections, such as one with EFI, would share the
videoconferencing link of the GDLN center and its operational capacity. Therefore, subsequent affiliate
connections would be connected on a fee-for-service basis (to be determined to a large extent by
-20-



utilization and the GDLN center management). This could be based on metered usage or a membership
fee, which would allow affiliates a certain number of access hours per month. The rationale aims towards
a market-driven self-sufficiency approach, in the sense that it provides an additional revenue stream for
the GDLN, and at the same time, fosters collaborative learning activities and partnership arrangements
between the country gateway and other institutions within Cambodia. Affiliate centers would also need to
consider the cost/benefits of subscribing and how it will seek cost recovery for its contributions to the
GDLN.
It was suggested by the Government that another option could be to make the GDLN center a sub-site
linked with the local World Bank video-conferencing facility. This would have the effect of reducing the
connectivity costs. However, a feasibility assessment showed that while this linkage would reduce the
connectivity cost, the revenue options for the facility would be significantly limited and this would mean
that the GDLN center could not achieve financial sustainability over the long term. In addition, there
would be practical issues of agreeing on access times for the GDLN center, as the World Bank would
retain management rights for the bandwidth and would have its own priority requirements.
Given this, it was agreed that this option should not be pursued further. However, it was also agreed that
access to the World Bank video-conferencing facility during the period while the GDLN center was being
constructed and established would provide an excellent opportunity for familiarization, training, and
advanced marketing for the new GDLN facility. Arrangements to proceed on this basis would be
discussed by the Government and the World Bank as soon as possible.
Since the Project implementation period is limited to four years, the Government agreed that in order to
ensure that the country gateway (GDLN center) is able to mobilize an increasing share of financing for its
operating expenses and achieves self-sufficiency at the completion of the project period, the
implementation of any other affiliate centers would be staged. This is to ensure that sufficient services,
capacity, and the market can be properly developed. This approach would allow for central coordination,
which is necessary in quality distance learning systems and will strengthen the potential impact of the
center as a development tool and an effective platform for information exchange within Cambodia.
Cost Estimates
Following the World Bank's technical mission in January 2002, the indicative costs for the GDLN were
further reviewed by the Government and the World Bank. A number of additional items were carefully
considered and included in the project cost tables (see Annex 12). This included (1) a full-time
simultaneous interpreter as part of the GDLN center staff; (2) leasing arrangements for transportation; (3)
twenty-four hour security; (4) capacity building and travel; (5) technical assistance; (6) provision for
equipment replacement and spares; (7) fuel to operate the generator; and (8) insurance. Salaries for key
GDLN center management staff were also increased to meet appropriate standards. Total one time costs
for the GDLN center are estimated at $752,000; and the total 4 year investment and operational costs for
the Project is $1,920,000. The extent of usage of the credit for the GDLN component will depend on
donor contributions and revenue raising results from the GDLN activities described below.
Sustainability of the Project (Feasibility Study)
The sustainability of the GDLN center is heavily dependent on a number of factors: a) entrepreneurship
and innovative management; b) strong relationship with the donor community; c) good marketing; d)
strong assessment of training needs; e) strong relationships with other GDLN centers in the region; f)
good accounting practices; g) good personnel practices (retention of staff); h) strong concern for service
delivery and quality of programming; and i) strong focus on development as a national priority.
-21-



The following is a summary of the feasibility study's main findings (see Annex 12 for details):
Likely costs and revenue for the GDLN center over a 5-year timeframe were examined. Cost estimates
were based on the results of a World Bank Technical Mission in January 2002, cost components
determined by the appraisal mission, and data obtained from the operation of other GDLN sites. Revenue
estimates were based on interviews with donor country representatives, government departments and
national organizations, intemational organizations, NGOs, and incorporating the experience of other
GDLN sites.
The approach taken in the feasibility study is based on a fairly accurate estimation of GDLN capital and
operating costs over a 5 year period as well as an assessment of the reasonableness of various revenues
streams from the usage of the GDLN center, financial support of the GDLN center, and in kind
contributions.
Full or near cost recovery of the GDLN center will require a combination of revenue-based use of the
facility, operating/start-up contributions by donors, and a recognition by the government of travel cost
savings by using video conferencing as an alternative to international travel.
This Project is expected to deliver some training programs through GDLN, mostly workshops and
seminars for the Advanced Executive Program (AEP). In addition, the proposed GDLN center will have
considerable capacity available for users other than the training programs to be delivered under the
EPSCB project. Many organizations and projects (including other World Bank-supported projects) have a
need for the facilities available in a GDLN center.
In discussions with several potential users of the GDLN center, several common themes were raised:
there is no similar facility in Cambodia; there is a great need for connection to the region and the world;
and there is a great need for training and skills enhancement. As such, the GDLN center could potentially
meet a range of needs for several organizations. For these organizations, use of the GDLN center is a
much cheaper option than paying airfares and related travel costs to send people to other countries for
training and meetings.
The final revenue projections presented in the study indicate that the Project could reach operational
sustainability at the end of the fourth year of operations.
Procurement
The World Bank recommended that the Government procure equipment and services in accordance with a
purchasing arrangement already established by the World Bank, due to the level of complexity required to
program the pedagogical equipment and maintenance services needed to transform the satellite feed into
interactive visual, audio and data display for instructional purposes within a GDLN center. However, the
World Bank presented two options to the Government for the procurement of this component for its
consideration. The first is to contract with a systems integrator that has been pre-selected by the World
Bank through a competitive process. The second option is for the Government to conduct a competitive
procurement in the same manner as would be conducted for any World Bank-financed project. After
carefully considering these two options, the Government has chosen the first option. (See Annex 6 for
details).
Other Issues
GDLN Center Business Plan. The business plan will need to be finalized and approved by the
Government, acceptable to the World Bank by March 1, 2004.
-22-



Memorandum of Understanding. The Government will enter into a MOU regarding its participation in the
GDLN as a condition of effectiveness. The purpose of this agreement will be to provide a basis of
understanding required to activate global accounting procedures (managed by the World Bank as a
service) and to ensure an efficient level of operations between the various GDLN centers established
around the world.
Legal Status. The World Bank recommended that the GDLN center be operated as an autonomous legal
entity with transparent and fair accounting methods. The Government will advise the World Bank of the
form this entity will take as soon as it has taken a decision.
Donors. As part of the World Bank's ongoing efforts to encourage donor participation in the GDLN
initiative, the Task Team consulted with donors regarding their possible contributions to the GDLN center
and partnership arrangements. To the extent that donor contributions are secured, the available credit
could be reduced or reallocated to other components as necessary.
Implementation. The preparation period for the operation of the GDLN center is expected to be about 12
months from start to finish, including the finalizing contract bids and the 4 to 5 months that is estimated
for construction. Therefore, it is recommended that priority be given to civil works/facility development
as soon as the Project becomes effective.
Terms of Reference for GDLN Center Staff Since the GDLN center's activities are new and, from an
education/learning perspective, quite innovative, particular attention should be paid to the staffing of the
center. GDLN centers typically have a staff of at least three professionals-a GDLN manager; a GDLN
training coordinator; and an information technology specialist.
The quality of GDLN management is probably the single most important factor of success in GDLN
operations. The Manager must: possess a good knowledge of distance learning and the operation of a
GDLN center; be knowledgeable and have good relations with the various ministries and non-government
organizations, including the corporate and donor community and; be entrepreneur with the capacity for
innovation. The Government agreed to employ the GDLN Center Director with experiences and
qualifications acceptable to IDA by August 1, 2003.
GDLN Staff Training. The Government and the World Bank have agreed that it is essential that the core
operating staff are adequately skilled to operate the GDLN center. In order to ensure that a suitable
standard is set, a total of $10,000 has been allocated for training costs. A Terms of Reference for this
training will be jointly developed by the World Bank and the Govermnent, as will minimum
competencies of staff to attend the training.
Strategic choices
The current Project builds on the lessons learned from technical assistance projects in Cambodia and the
region (see Section D.3 for more details):
Substitution TA vs. knowledge/skills transfer TA.  A key aspect of this Project is assisting the
Government in an alternative approach to the highly expatriate focused technical assistance in the past.
While useful in terms of maintaining and improving operations, these substitution TA projects have not
led to sufficient human resource improvement in the civil service. While substitution TA can be an
effective way of providing governments with specialized knowledge and support, it is an often less
effective way of transferring skills and knowledge since expatriate advisors substitute for, rather than
collaborating with, weak or absent counterparts. By targeting different groups and modalities in the civil
-23-



service, this Project aims to address some of the shortcomings of traditional modes of technical assistance
in the Cambodian context. In broadening the scope of targeted trainees to include parliamentarians, it is
hoped that a common understanding of the development challenges, facing government can be generated
within legislative and executive branches of government and across the political spectrum to facilitate a
more constructive governance environment.
Overseas training vs. in-country training. This Project will also move away from typical overseas
training towards in-country training activities, particularly emphasizing the strengthening of local training
institutions. This approach reflects the World Bank experience with capacity building projects, which
demonstrates increasing evidence that traditional models of training public officials, such as overseas
scholarships, secondments and study tours have not proven effective. By influencing only a minority,
these measures have failed to stimulate changes in institutional behavior in the public sector, and have not
provided an adequate public management response to the evolving global economy. '
GDLN. Learning from these lessons, the Project intends to move away from traditional modes of
technical assistance practiced in the past. Instead it proposes to move towards a more innovative
approach, focusing on practical training with action learning methods. The in situ training, and the
Project's innovative targeting of key groups of public servants and units, will facilitate a change in
institutional culture and promote the immediate application of knowledge and learned skills. Overall, the
Project is intended to establish a new mode of knowledge transfer that would achieve lasting impact in
Cambodia. The establishment of a GDLN center will enable the Government to pilot this new approach
in Cambodia.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Cambodia EPSCB project will comprise the following components:
Component 1: Project Management
A. Strengthening the capacity of the Training Coordination Office
B. Strengthening the capacity of the Logistics Support Unit
Component 2: Training Program Development and Implementation
A. Curriculum development of AEP, MDP, and PDP
B. Provision of training under AEP, MDP and PDP
C. Training delivery for provincial officials
D. Program evaluation and adjustment
Component 3: Institutional Development
A. CAR: Institutional support for the Human Resources Development Unit, including the
HRMIS initiative
"Governance and the Design of Technical Assistance for Institutional Development." D. Steedman. World Bank,
April 1995.
-24-



B. MEF: Institutional support for the Economic and Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring
Unit (EFPPMU)
C. RSA: Institutional support for Training Coordination Office facility
D. RSA/EFI: Strengthening training capacity
Component 4: Global Development Learning Network (GDLN)
A. Development of GDLN Distance Learning Center facilities
B. Management and operation of GDLN center
C. Capacity building of GDLN center staff
The project costs are summarized in the table below:
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component             Sector       Costs     % of     financing     Bank-
(USSM)     Total     (USSM)     flnancing
1. Project Management          BA, BF       0.76      13.2%       0.70      91.5%
2. Training Program              BI         2.25      39.1%       2.17      96.4%
Development and
Implementation _
3. Institutional Development    BA, BF      0.82      14.3%       0.80      97.2%
4. Global Development            BI          1.92     33.4%       1.83      95.1%
Learning Network
Total Project Costs              5.76     100%        5.50      95.4%
Total Financing Required          5.76                  5.5O
The amount could be reduced to the extent that donors would provide grant assistance.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed Project aims to support the Government's recent policy developments and reform initiatives
as follows:
*  Recent developments of economic and social policies with a focus on poverty reduction -
particularly, I-PRSP, SEDPII, and a forthcoming full PRSP;
* Public finance reform: (i) implementation of the Priority Action Program (PAP) in key central
ministries (particularly Health and Education) and in provincial offices; (ii) a shift toward a medium
term expenditure framework (MTEF); and (iii) implementation of a Sub-Decree governing Public
Procurement.
*  Civil service reform: (i) development and implementation of a medium-term Strategy to Reform Civil
Service (SRCS), particularly the Priority Mission Group (PMG) program; (ii) development of human
resource management system, following the Government's recent statement on Human Resource
Development Policy;
* Governance reform: (i) monitoring and coordination of the Governance Action Plan (GAP); (ii)
capacity building for deconcentration and decentralization initiatives; (iii) awareness raising and
prevention of corruption; and (iv) gender mainstreaming.
-25-



3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed Project will support the Government in delivering public services more effectively and
efficiently. The ultimate beneficiaries should be the Cambodian people who would have access to
improved public services.
This Project will also benefit two target groups, immediately and intermediately:
Immediate group. Public officials who receive training will be immediate beneficiaries of the Project. A
large proportion of funding for this Project will be allocated to the capacity building of this group. The
current Project will help strengthen their capability to formulate key economic and social policies with a
focus on poverty and guide and implement public sector and governance reform initiatives. Staff at the
training institutions will also benefit from the Project because they will develop capacity through the
training of trainers component of the Project.
Intermediate group. Those who are not trainees under the current Project but work with trained officials
at ministries will benefit from the current Project. Officials at senior executive and management levels
will be able to formulate and implement their reform agenda more effectively and efficiently with the aid
of trained subordinates who will acquire relevant knowledge and skills, whereas junior officials who work
for the trained officials will be able to work in the better managed and organized work environment for
service delivery.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agency. The Council of Administrative Reform (CAR) is the executing agency of the EPSCB
project. CAR's legal description and mission statement from the official Sub-Decree No. 51 on The
Creation of the Council ofAdministrative Reform:
The Council of Administrative Reform is established to assist in the mission of the Supreme Council of
State Reform in the field of administrative reform. The Council of Administrative Reform is located at the
Cabinet of the Council of Ministers (legal description, article 1).
The Council of Administrative Reform has the mission to initiate, enhance, advance, and follow-up the
implementation of policies and the administrative reform program, in accordance with the direction of the
Supreme Council of State Reform (mission, article 2).
Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator will be appointed within the Secretariat General of CAR,
supported by the staff of the Secretariat General of CAR in adequate numbers. The Project Coordinator
will be assigned with such responsibilities as shall be necessary to provide overall supervision and
coordination of the Project, to monitor and evaluate project activities, and to ensure satisfactory
implementation and management of the Project on behalf of the CAR.
Project Manager. The role of the Project Manager, supported by staff of the Human Resources
Development Unit of CAR, is to ensure sound operation of the day-to-day management of the Project.
Logistics Support Unit. The role of this unit, reporting directly to the Project Coordinator, will be to
ensure that satisfactory processes are followed in all accounting, procurement and disbursement matters
and to ensure that disbursements and financial reports are made on a timely basis. This unit already exists
and will be tasked with these additional responsibilities. The unit will be staffed with competent
personnel in sufficient numbers, including, without limitation, a financial management officer, a project
-26-



accountant, two assistant accountants, and a procurement officer. In addition, the unit will be assisted in
the first year by a procurement advisor.
Training Coordinator. A Training Coordination Office (TCO) will be established and maintained within
the Secretariat General of CAR throughout the period of implementation of the Project. The TCO will be
headed by a qualified and experienced Training Coordinator, and staffed with other suitably qualified and
experienced personnel. The Training Coordinator will be responsible for satisfactory implementation of
all training activities, including without limitation, the design of the curriculum and training programs,
delivery of the training programs, and liaison with relevant training institutions.
Advisory Board. The role of the Advisory Board is to provide advice to the Project Coordinator on the
implementation of the Project, particularly in regard to the training delivery programs and activities,
extent of participation by civil servants, new activities such as supplementary workshops, and overall
progress. The Advisory Board will consist of the Council of Ministers, Council for Administrative
Reform (CAR), Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), Ministry of Planning (MOP), Ministry of
Social Affairs, Labor, Vocational Training, and Youth Rehabilitation, Civil Service Secretariat of State
(CSSS), Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MOEYS), Royal School of Administration (RSA),
Economics and Finance Institute (EFI), and Royal Academy of Cambodia (RAC). Membership will be at
the senior technical level.
Training Service Delivery. The Royal School of Administration (RSA) and the Economics and Finance
Institute (EFI), particularly in public financial management, will host training service delivery, supported
by external training institutions.
GDLNV Center. The GDLN center, an integral part of the EPSCB project, will be established at RSA as a
separate operational center, within the Project, and will report directly to the Project Coordinator. The
Center will offer distance learning programs for the EPSCB project, but also allow open access to other
key training institutions for development learning.
-27-



Figure 1: Institutional Arrangements for Implementation of EPSCB project
Council for
Administrative Reform                     Executing Agency
Project Coordinator                      Advisory Board
- Project Management                   (Council of Ministers, CAR,
- Logistics Support Unit                MEF, MOP, CSSS, MoEYS,
RSA, EFI, RAC, MSA)
Training Coordinator
Trniningr Cnordination Office
GDLN
Center
Economics              .     .
RSA                     and Finance       Trammg delivery agencies
Institute
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternatives were considered for the proposed Project:
*  The first option was to dispatch expatriate advisors to public agencies in key reform areas.
*  The second option was to send public officials to overseas training.
*  The third option was to organize in-country training but use traditional classroom lecture type training
methods.
*  The fourth option is the proposed Project.
The first option was not considered because it has not effectively transferred skills and knowledge, has
proven to be expensive (a large portion of the project budget was spent on salaries for expatriate TA
personnel), and has had a limited impact on development (see Section D.3 below for more details).
The second option (sending public officials overseas for training) was not considered for five reasons.
First, only a small number of officials can be trained under the programs. This would be unlikely to have
a visible impact on public sector reforms and service delivery since these require a larger number of civil
servants to undergo capacity building. Second, sending public officials overseas is much more costly per
-28-



person trained. Thirdly, only those officials who are literate in foreign language can participate in these
types of training programs. This problem becomes particularly serious when provincial officials are the
main target of training activities. Fourthly, the status of formal overseas qualifications increases the risk
of loss of staff to the private sector. Finally, isolating officials from their work environments limits their
opportunity to apply new skills and knowledge acquired under the programs to their day-to-day work.
The third option (in-country training with traditional lecture type methods) could perhaps transfer
knowledge to a larger number of officials, but might not be effective in professional skill building
because the latter tends to require practice in work environments. Without practice, the knowledge gained
through lectures is unlikely to translate into concrete actions that bring about change in service delivery.
Having considered the three options above, the current Project proposes in country, in situ training
programs with action learning methods. This will provide training opportunities to a large number of
officials without removing them from their official functions and duties. The in situ training, and the
Project's innovative targeting of key groups of public servants who play a significant role in key reforms,
will facilitate a change in institutional culture and promote the immediate application of knowledge and
learned skills.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
IDA's assistance.  IDA is supporting the Government's public sector reform efforts, starting with a
Public Expenditure Review (PER) that, among others matters, tackled the issue of weak governance in
revenue mobilization, forestry management, and expenditure management, in particular in social sectors
(see table below). The ongoing Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) is an operationalization of the PER,
focusing on public resource management, public expenditure management, governance and anti-
corruption.
IDA also assisted the Government in conducting governance and corruption surveys and preparing a
Governance and Corruption Diagnostic and assisted in the preparation of a Governance Action Plan
(GAP). In addition, IDA assisted the Government with a civil service pay and employment financial
modeling exercise towards the formulation and articulation of a medium-term civil service reform
strategy. With funding through Public Sector Flagship Knowledge Management Funds, IDA provided
assistance in developing a framework to monitor and coordinate various governance initiatives in the
GAP, with a view to prioritizing and sequencing reform actions with costing.
This proposed Project will work closely with IDA's other assistance, for instance, poverty reduction
strategy formulation (IDF grant), public sector reform (PHRD grant), legal and judicial reform (LIL),
forestry management (LIL), and education quality improvement (LIL).
Other development agencies. Substantial technical assistance is underway through grant programs funded
by many other donors. Over the course of preparation of the current Project, IDA has closely consulted
them with a view to fully complementing their capacity building efforts.
In particular, substantial efforts have been made to ensure that public financial management component
under the EPSCB be complementary to IMF/ADB's TCAP program. The two programs have
substantially different focuses and coverage.
* TCAP is more focused on the national level, while EPSCB will include the sub-national level of
financial management;
-29-



* TCAP has a greater focus on specialist financial managers than does EPSCB;
* Training is a partial focus of the TCAP as compared to EPSCB;
* TCAP training tends to involve smaller numbers of participants.
Therefore, the EPSCB will be complementary to TCAP in four important ways:
*  EPSCB will provide training in key elements of financial management to a broader range of
managers. This will cover basic training in financial management and planning, the role of
budget processes and the use of financial information and controls, including the training required
for the new post audit based (e.g., PAP), performance focused, budget execution system
envisaged under the TCAP program;
*  EPSCB will be extended to the provincial level, particularly for the sub-national level of
financial management, which is a critical gap in financial management capacity building.
Attempts to create budget management centers and streamlined disbursement have suffered
because relevant provincial officials are not familiar with fiscal management practices.
*  EPSCB will provide specialized capacity building for certain functions, for example, the
Economic and Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit of MEF, which is not being
provided by TCAP.
*  EPSCB's institutional arrangements that financial management components will be provided by
EFI will ensure integration and complementarity.
-30-



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                Implementatlon  Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
- TA providing consultant services,  Technical Assistance Project  S             s
equipment materials and training in many
public sector activities: budget
management (MEF); civil service census
and database; medium term civil service
reform strategy
- Public expenditure management, civil  Public Expenditure Review   S             S
service reform and governance and
anticorruption
- Operationalization of PER          Structural Adjustment Credit   S            S
- Governance and anticorruption survey;  IDF grant                  s            s
Support to the development of GAP
- Framework to plan, monitor and     Public Sector Flagship         s             S
coordinate GAP implementation       Initiative
- Political stakeholder analysis on civil  Regional Flagship        S             S
service reform and govemance
- Support for expenditure management;  PHRD                         s             s
administrative reform and civil service
HRMIS
- Preparation of I-PRSP             IDF grant                       S             S
- Full PRSP                         IDF grant
- Public Expenditure Review (PER)
- Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC)
Other development agencies
Treasury / budget management         TCAP program (IMF,
UNDP, ADB, DFID)
Capacity building TA                 EU
TA for administrative reform including  UNDP
PMG initiative
Poverty monitoring and analysis support  UNDP
Budget management and audit support  ADB
Support for SEDPII                   ADB
TA for CAR (govemance advisor)       Canada
TA for Royal School of Administration  France
and CAR                             I       _I_I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatsfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the Cambodia Technical Assistance Project. The Cambodia TA Project ($17 million,
effective in March 1995, closed December 2001) provided a wide range of consultant services,
equipment, material and training in the following areas: (a) revenue mobilization; (b) public expenditure
control; (c) public investment management; (d) foreign debt management; (e) public sector personnel
management; (f) military demobilization; (g) private sector development; (h) forestry management; and
(i) Economics and Finance Institute (EFI).
One of the major activities to be carried out under the TA project was training. The Government intended
to recruit high caliber expertise with a commitment to training nationals and the ability to transfer
-31-



economic management skills. The project intended to help the Government implement this strategy. The
project design supported a major training effort to strengthen basic staff capacity as well as to provide
focused knowledge transfer to enable local staff to absorb specific features of the new management
system. To provide an adequate infrastructure in support of the massive upgrading of public finance
management staff, the project helped finance the construction and equipment of a small training facility
(the Economics and Finance Institute). The EFI was to become the main instrument to address continued
training needs and ensure sustainability.
IDA assistance delivered through the Technical Assistance Project, however, was not, on the whole,
effective. The umbrella nature of the activities covered made the project extremely difficult to coordinate,
manage, and monitor. While there was some reasonably satisfactory progress in building capacity for
macroeconomic and public sector management, there continued to be a strong reliance on substitution-
type advisory TA. Problems included: (i) an uncertain degree of skills transfer, making substitution TA
an inefficient mode of capacity building; (ii) insufficient emphasis on training of counterparts, whether
formal or on the job; (iii) insufficient monitoring and evaluation of training, in particular through EFI,
making it difficult to determine its effectiveness; and (iv) in several cases, consultants had not provided
the degree of training anticipated by EFI management, due to poor enforcement.
Lessons from capacity building projects in other countries. A key lesson from other countries is that
capacity building projects need an extended period of implementation. Success rates are in general low.
For example, the World Bank's overall experience with capacity building in civil service reform is that
only about one-third of efforts achieved satisfactory outcomes.2 Often this was because efforts were too
short term in nature.
The value of technical assistance in contributing to local capacity has been questionable in many
activities. World Bank projects across all regions have been criticized for not adequately transferring
skills or expertise to counterparts. Since the capacity to issue terms of reference and choose consultants is
weak in the country, the World Bank often chooses technical assistance consultants, leading to the
perception that technical assistance is donor and supply-driven. In many cases, these expatriate
consultants implement the projects with insufficient collaboration with, and limited skills or knowledge
transfer to, local counterparts. Furthermore, the large amounts of project funds used to pay foreign
consultant fees, and the economically distortionary effects of dollar-denominated consultant payment,
engenders a great deal of frustration among government counterparts. Technical assistance has also been
criticized as poorly targeted in some instances - it is often targeted solely to top level government
employees, leading to an extremely problematic skills gap between the top level and that immediately
below it, even if skills transfer is successful. Well-trained administrators or managers cannot achieve
reform or institutional change without bureaucrats under them capable of implementation. Therefore,
governments are increasingly reluctant to borrow for long term technical assistance precisely because of
poor skill transfer, high consultant fees, and low impact. 3
This is not to imply that other approaches are necessarily more successful. Enclave initiatives such as
establishing Senior Executive Services can be counterproductive if suitable salaries cannot be sustained or
if they become new channels of patronage.
2 "Civil Service Reform - A Review of World Bank Assistance." Operations Evaluation Departnent, World Bank,
August 4, 1999
3"Assessing the Institutional Impact of IDA Lending." N. Barma, S. Dove, B. Nunberg. World Bank, forthcoming.
-32-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government perceives the proposed Project as a key component for vigorous implementation of
public sector and governance reform initiatives, in particular the aspect of human resource development.
Under the Government's human resource development strategy being developed as part of the NPAR, the
proposed Project will serve as a vehicle to strengthen the capacity of public officials who are expected to
lead and mange public sector reforms, and enhance the performance of service delivery. In particular, the
Government envisages training the Priority Mission Groups when they are formed through PMG
inception workshops under the EPSCB. Another indication of ownership is that the CAR and MEF have
been actively involved in the design of the training programs over the course of two preparation missions
held in November 2001 and February 2002. Regarding GDLN, a financial feasibility study of the GDLN
center was conducted and the Government and the World Bank have agreed to establish a GDLN center
in Cambodia.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The current Project builds on IDA's earlier assistance in the areas of public sector and governance reform
(See Section D.2: Major related projects financed by IDA and other development agencies). This puts
IDA in a unique position because it has an in-depth understanding of the capacity building needs to
develop and implement those reforms.
Helping Cambodia to build institutional capacity for public sector and governance reform will take many
years and a series of external assistance interventions to accomplish. It will involve a coordinated effort
to shift civil service incentives to a sustainable basis and to create systems of accountable and transparent
governance. This Project begins this process. It will provide a jump-start to capacity building through
immediate bridge support for skill enhancement in key reform areas. This small operation will emphasize
behavioral and technical training and knowledge transfer along with systematic, on-the-job learning for
government staff. The Project is intended as a catalyst to spur the gradual substitution of Cambodians for
the expatriate advisors. The Project will pilot this approach that could be replicated and expanded in
follow-on phases.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
= Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
3 Cost effectiveness
Other (specify)
The cost effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the costs of three modes of training delivery: (1)
international training (outside Cambodia); (2) local training by international and/or local trainers; and (3)
local training through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN). The first has been commonly
practiced for selected Cambodians with donor assistance. The second has been increasing, although not
mainstreamed, as local training institutions, including universities, gained experience and built capacity
gradually. The third is new to Cambodia, although there are a few precedents of long distance education
in partnership with universities in developed countries (e.g., Masters Degree Program in Macro and
Financial Economics at University of London in partnership with Cambodia Development Resource
Institute).
The unit cost of course delivery per participant per hour of instruction (or per day) is used as indicator for
comparison. While this indicator reflects all measurable components, it should be noted that some
important qualitative aspects are neglected, such as the value of on-the-job training and access to state of
-33-



the art knowledge and information through GDLN. These qualitative benefits are difficult to measure,
but would need to be taken into account in a more comprehensive cost effectiveness analysis.
In the absence of reliable, comprehensive data on the training markets in Cambodia, preliminary data
gathered during the preparation missions are used in the following analysis. By its nature, the indicators
compared below should be interpreted as benchmark figures and are thus indicative only.
The Table in Annex 4 presents a unit cost comparison between (1) the international training envisaged
under the proposed TCAP Diploma Program in Public Economics (not yet in place or funded), and (2) the
local training under the proposed EPSCB project. The comparison clearly indicates that unit costs of the
proposed EPSCB project are significantly less costly than the proposed Diploma Program under TCAP.
The third mode of training through GDLN has the potential to save the costs of full time overseas training
by permitting a larger number of audiences to have access to advanced education in the country.
Qualitative aspects of GDLN, such as access to state of the art development knowledge, information from
different international sources, and opportunities to immediately apply learned skills in their work, would
need to be taken into account for a fuller cost effectiveness assessment.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
For financial aspects of GDLN, see Annex 12 (GDLN financial feasibility analysis).
3. Technical:
Linking the GDLN center as a hub site to provinces is technically possible for the establishment of a
national distance learning delivery system. The World Bank has some experience with the establishment
of sub-sites in the East Asia and Pacific region. Since the project implementation period is limited to four
years, the Government agreed that in order to ensure that the country gateway (GDLN center) is able to
mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses and achieves self-sufficiency at the
completion of the project period, the implementation of any other affiliate centers would be staged. This
is to ensure that sufficient services, capacity, and the market can be properly developed. This approach
would allow for central coordination, which is necessary in quality distance learning systems and will
strengthen the potential impact of the center as a development tool and an effective platform for
information exchange within Cambodia. Therefore, a multi-phased approach is recommended to establish
-a national distance-learning network in Cambodia, i.e., each phase dependent on the success of the
previous ones. The hub center in Phnom Penh should be established and made viable first, before the
sub-sites can be developed in the next phases. The sub-sites could be financed either in a second project
or through donor aid.
For other aspects of technical issues associated with GDLN, see GDLN Section in "Sector issues to be
addressed by the Project and strategic choices" above.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Council for Administrative Reform (CAR) under the Council of Ministers will be the executing
agency, responsible for the design, management, and overall coordination of the EPSCB project.
-34-



4.2 Project management:
The CAR has some experience in managing technical assistance projects financed by IDA, such as: the
Cambodia TA project (1995-2001), an IDF Grant on governance, an anti-corruption survey and the
development of a Governance Action Plan (2000-2002), and a Regional Flagship on GAP implementation
(2001).
However, recent capacity assessments undertaken by IDA specialists pointed out the need for
strengthening CAR's capacity of procurement and financial management (for details see E.4.3 and E.4.4
and Annex 6). Therefore, prior to project execution the Logistics Support Unit in CAR will initiate
financial management, disbursement, and procurement training for its staff and seek to increase its
capacity through technical assistance for procurement management, and through the measures stipulated
in the action plan for financial management (Annex 6).
For details on project management, see Section 4 "Institutional and implementation arrangements"
above.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Various aspects of procurement issues have been clarified and extensively discussed. In terms of the
project design, there will be a substantial involvement of external providers and this will be funded by
IDA credit. Selection of institutions and consultants to design and deliver major training program
elements for the project must be on a competitive basis. This was agreed on between the Government and
IDA. For details on procurement issues, see Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The required management of appropriate funding flows within the Project was clarified after internal IDA
consultations. The funding flows and contractual relationships will be dependent on the implementation
arrangements envisaged within the Project and these are described below.
The Council of Administration Reform (CAR) will be the designated Executing Agency. Within CAR,
there will be a Project Coordinator responsible for satisfactory implementation and overall management
of the Project, a Project Manager responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Project, and a Training
Coordinator to ensure the satisfactory implementation of all training activities. The Logistics Support
Unit within CAR will be responsible for due process in disbursements and will be the only unit within the
Project with authority to make disbursements.
The key starting point in the implementation scenario is for CAR to use competitive bidding to call for
bids from a select list of international civil service institutions, universities, and local institutions to
become working partners in the completion of preparations (e.g. completing curriculum development) and
in the subsequent delivery of training programs. CAR will be responsible for the selection of the external
partners to participate in the Project. There may be 3 or 4 such partners identified.
CAR will enter into contracts with these extemal partners conceming their participation in the activities
necessary to complete preparations and commence the delivery of training programs. All costing
arrangements and fees payable under the contracts with extemal providers will be subject to specific
agreement with and approval by CAR.
The contracts with the extemal providers are intended to cover 3 phases of activities-
-35-



1. Final preparations in terms of curriculum development and delivery plans;
2. Participation in initial training delivery over the first 12 months;
3. Optional extension of participation in the final part of the Project (depending on satisfactory
performance).
In implementing the Project, CAR will establish MOUs with the Royal School of Administration (RSA)
and with the Economics and Financial Institute (EFI) conceming their working relationships with the
Training Coordinator and their involvement in hosting the training programs and subsequent roll-out of
training delivery, in conjunction with the approved external partners. Both RSA and EFI are legally
separate from CAR and hence a clear agreed working relationship is necessary. IDA has indicated that an
MOU would be an appropriate instrument for this purpose.
The Training Coordinator will be required to certify work undertaken and completed by the extemal
providers after consultation with RSA and EFI, and after clearance and authorization the Logistics
Support Unit will make payments to the extemal providers under the various contracts.
To the extent that the Project requires the services of RSA and EFI, IDA will finance expenses associated
with holding the training programs, and these costs can be billed to CAR under the terms of the MOUs.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C
GDLN center will be built within an existing building. Small civil works such as classroom construction
will be done on existing sites and do not warrant a stand alone EIA. All construction works will be
designed by a qualified architect to ensure that building renovations meet local building codes and include
appropriate water and sanitation facilities. All civil works construction contracts will include appropriate
clauses requiring site clean-up following construction, appropriate noise and dust control, and worker
safety measures.
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
-36-



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social objectives of the EPSCB project fall under the targeted areas as discussed above: poverty
reduction, enhancing governance and public sector management, and mainstreaming gender concerns and
analysis throughout the public sector. There is no adverse impact to be mitigated in the project design.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
* The Government is preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that envisages
comprehensive participatory process involving the Parliament, donors, NGOs, civil society, and the
private sector. The preparation, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project will be
a part of the PRSP preparation, implementation and evaluation process.
*  The Government is to consult the Parliament, donors, NGOs, civil society, and the private sector in
implementing and monitoring the Governance Action Plan. This Project would build on the process
of implementing and monitoring the Governance Action Plan.
* Consultations with donor/NGO sub-groups (fiscal, social sectors, governance, public administration)
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
By ensuring close links with NGOs and civil society, in particular on poverty reduction and governance.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
An Advisory Board for the current Project; consultations with key donors involving training activities in
the civil service
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The CAR Secretariat will monitor this performance.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-37-



Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                         No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                  No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37                                    No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)              No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable. The GDLN center will be built by expanding the existing building at the Royal School of
Administration in Phnom Penh, and therefore, no land acquisition/resettlement will be involved.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
One main risk that could affect the Project's sustainability is the Government's Strategy to Reform Civil
Service (SRCS), which would not provide adequate salaries for civil servants to be retained in the
Government over the medium term. Without a more substantial change in incentives, trained public
officials (particularly younger generation) could not be retained within the civil service, and many
problems in the civil service including brain drain, absenteeism, and corruption would not cease. As
indicated by experiences in other countries, capacity building interventions only have a lasting impact
when they are preceded and supported by a credible, comprehensive SRCS that addresses low salary
problems.
While the Government has not yet committed to immediate action on this agenda, dialogue on a set of
steps that would be necessary to prepare for reforms did advance in the appraisal mission. Agreement was
reached with the Govemment on a robust program of analytic work, including functional analysis, labor
market and pay comparator studies, development of departure and safety-net programs for employment
transition, and analysis of possible financing options for civil service pay improvements as discussed
above. The result will be a refined medium-term civil service reform plan that can be implemented in the
post-electoral period. The Government needs to consider more substantial pay and employment reform,
in the context of a forthcoming Public Expenditure Review, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and a
proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC).
In parallel, some mitigation measures can be considered. First, it is important that training performance
(including retention rates of trainees) be monitored and tracked regularly as part of the Project. This will
provide information to evaluate performance of the training program, and adjust and improve the
programming of training activities. Under the overall supervision of CAR, TCO will be charged with this
task. Second, mentoring groups for younger participants, consisting of some senior political appointees,
could be formed to support their activities at work. Third, the Govermnent may consider participants
being part of PMGs so that they can receive performance allowances during and after training. This,
however, would be at best a temporary solution because PMGs are time bound by their very nature.
Another main risk is financial viability of the GDLN center. The concern is that there would not be
sufficient demand from both the public and private sectors for the Center to achieve a sustainable
-38-



utilization rate. According to the feasibility study, revenue projections indicate that the Project could
reach operational sustainability at the end of the fourth year of operations. The prospects for the revenue
projections to materialize would depend on the following: the effective marketing and promotion of the
center's services for donor community and private sector usage, government commitment to utilize the
center for civil service training, and donor support for recurrent expenses.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk
Risk                  Rating            Mitigation measure
Outputs to Outcomes                         _
Failure of Government to pursue more
fundamental civil service reform
*  Failure to retain a significant portion of H  Active policy dialogue in the context of PER,
trained staff in government service        PRSP, PRSC to address the low pay issue.
*  Failure of PMG initiative to promote  S
change as intended                         Sharpen the scope and nature of the PMGs
Financial viability of GDLN
There would not be sufficient demand from  H  Government commitment to extensively
both public and private sectors to achieve a  utilize the Center for civil service training
sustainable utilization rate for the center.
Donor support for recurrent expenses
Good marketing and promotion of Center's
services to for private sector usage.
Coordination with other donors
Number of donors involved in this field  M    Relevant donor coordinating groups would
would lead to confused or uncoordinated       be involved in the development and
approach                                      monitoring of the Project.
Ongoing support for the CAR would
improve coordination of reform
implementation envisaged under the
Governance Action Plan.
Resource issues
Government has limited capacity to    S       Seek Budget funding based on results and/or
continue the training programs, beyond the    ongoing donor support
project period
Provincial involvement issues                 Establish plan and timetable for initial
Provinces feel they are left out.     S       delivery to provincial officials in PP and
subsequent extension to provinces
Assessment and appraisal issues
Participation and assignments are not  M      Monitor and assess this activity
assessed properly.
From Components to Outputs
Ineffective design
*  Inadequate curricula and delivery  N       Secure professional advice from experienced
-39-



Risk
Risk                  Rating            Mitization measure
planning                                   adviser/provider
*  Lack of contact and cooperation from  M    Ensure liaison and partnerships with other
regional universities and other bodies     experienced bodies
Ineffective organization and cooperation
*  Problems in selection and/or       S       Detail plan for monitoring this key
performance of Training Coordinator        appointments
*  Problems in the capabilities of RSA to  S  Detail plan for strengthening and monitoring
deliver.                                   of key appointments
*  Poor cooperation with EFI on financial  M  Establish protocol for cooperation as
management.                                condition of funding.
Poor selection of candidates
Candidates not selected on merit and  M       Establish firm selection conditions, criteria
potential but on the basis of position or     and methodology
time served.
Ineffective implementation and deliverv
*  Poor working arrangements between  S       A coordinating Advisory Board chaired by
key agencies. Coordination of the         the Minister of State for CAR would be
Project could be ineffective due to the   responsible for maintaining coherent support
different agendas of the main             to the Project.
implementing agencies.
*  Difficulties with interpretation and  M    Close monitoring and supervision of
translation                                arrangements
OVERALL RISK RATING                   S       This Project has a substantial risk, but is
essential to achieving a wide range of
reforms in Cambodia. A set of mitigation
measures have been prepared.
Risk Ratings - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation Conditions (the following negotiation conditions have been fulfilled prior to
negotiations)
* Provision of draft allocation of counterpart funding by components and expenditure categories.
* Submission of draft Project Implementation Manual and draft format of Financial Monitoring Report.
2. Effectiveness Conditions
* Make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $25,000 into the Project Account.
-40-



*  Establish an Advisory Board assigned with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
*  Appoint a Project Coordinator within the Secretariat General of the CAR assigned with such
responsibilities as shall be necessary to provide overall supervision and coordination of the Project, to
monitor and evaluate the Project activities, and to ensure satisfactory implementation and
management of the Project on behalf of CAR.
*  Appoint a Project Manager within the Secretariat General of the CAR supported by the staff of the
Human Resources Development Unit and assigned with such responsibilities as will be necessary to
be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project.
*  Appoint for the Logistics Support Unit within the Secretariat General of the CAR competent
personnel in sufficient numbers, including a financial management officer, a Project accountant, two
assistant accountants, a procurement officer, and, in order to assist the Logistics Support Unit in the
initial stage of the Project, select a procurement advisor, acceptable to the Association.
*  Establish a Training Coordinator Office within the Secretariat General of the CAR by a prakas or sub-
decree, and either employ a training coordinator, or appoint a training coordinator and employ a
training advisor.
*  Adopt the Project Implementation Manual and the Financial Management Manual, satisfactory to the
Association
*  Engage consultants' services to assist in the preparation of the Financial Management Manual, to
install a specialized financial management software, to establish a computerized financial
management system for the Logistics Support Unit, and to provide financial management,
disbursement, and procurement training for the staff of the Logistics Support Unit, satisfactory to the
Association.
*  Establish a computerized financial management system for the Logistics Support Unit, including the
installation of a specialized financial management software and initiate financial management,
disbursement, and procurement training for the staff of the Logistics Support Unit.
*  Enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the GDLN Services that represents a statement of
intent to join GDLN and to abide by the general principles of GDLN provided therein.
*  Enter into a Memorandum of Understanding among CAR, the Economics and Finance Institute and
the Royal School of Administration, respectively, which sets forth the rights and obligations of each
party with respect to the training arrangements under the Project.
3. Disbursement Conditions
* No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures for Goods unless and
until the Borrower has employed a procurement advisor acceptable to the Association to assist the
Logistics Support Unit in the initial stage of the Project.
41-



4. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*  GDLN Center business plan finalized and approved by the Borrower, acceptable to the Association,
no later than March 1, 2004.
*  Employ the GDLN Center Director with experiences and qualifications acceptable to the Association
not later than August 1, 2003.
*  Maintain an Advisory Board throughout the period of implementation of the Project.
*  Maintain a Logistics Support Unit throughout the period of implementation of the Project.
*  Maintain a Training Coordination Office throughout the period of implementation of the Project.
*  Implement the Project Implementation Manual.
*  Implement the Financial Management Manual.
*  Shall not modify, waive, suspend, cancel or abrogate any provisions of the Project Implementation
Manual and the Financial Management Manual without the prior concurrence of IDA.
*  Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate the
carrying out of the Project on an ongoing basis and the achievement of its objectives.
* Prepare and furnish on or about June 1, 2004 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed on the Project, and review the report with the Association by July 1,
2004 based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views
on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 Not applicable.
0 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 The Project Implementation Manual has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
2 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-42-



L Cmpllu- n w   fth Bnk Pddls
hi rot ompiwi a applicable Dk polici
Ot Ulbowlns excepto a ban pollces we I  for apoval. The Projc compiks with
aul odwr aplca  an policis
K-4 o               K                      _n C.  _   _
Tmm Leade Jrdor                                     Counby wanagwiVDlr
-43-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
W                                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~WM
Sector-related CAS        Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country       (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                           reports:              Mission)
Medium-term civil
Build the foundations for  service vision       CAS                   Macroeconomic stability
sustainable development   articulated
and poverty reduction by:                       PER                   Political commitment to
*   Supporting good       Civil service staffing                      implement governance and
governance and public  requirements defined  Full PRSP            public sector reform
sector reform; and                                                agenda
*   Rebuilding human      Public sector wage    GAP and GAP
capital through       bill adjusted in line  Progress Reports     Sustained donor support to
investment in skills  with functional needs  (CAR)                the government's reform
development                                                       agenda
Project Development       Outcome I Impact      Project reports:      (from Objective to
Objective:                Indicators:                                 Goal)
Enhanced capability of    Improved              Evaluations on        Long-term strategic
civil service to deliver key  understanding of best  monitoring       framework for civil service
public services for poverty  practice in civil  implementation        reform.
reduction                 service reforms and
application of best   Donor sub-groups on   Establishment of HRD
practice to improved  state reforms         Strategy and Master Plan
service delivery in
economic and social                         PMGs formed and
programs                                    operational to catalyze
change in key sectors
Management and
skills for policy                           RCG commitment to
development and                             upgrading of training
reforms in pubic                            institutions
finance, public
administration and                          RCG commitment to
governance                                  establishment and use of
strengthened                                GDLN center.
Institutional,
systematic provision
of capacity building
activities (including
GDLN) strengthened
and sustained
Access to distance
learning through
GDLN center
enhanced for the
public and non-public
sectors                            .
-44-



Cambodian nationals
strengthened, with a
view to substituting
Cambodian nationals
for expatriate advisers
in key policy
formulation and
implementation.
Trained public        Career tracking
officials retained in  surveys (CAR/TCO)
the civil service (see
Attachment I to       Monitoring using
Annex 1 for           HRMIS (CAR HRD
quantitative          Unit).
benchmarks)
Output from each         Output Indicators:    Project reports:     (from Outputs to
Component:                                                          Objective)
1. Key Project           1.1 Training          Supervision reports,  CAR's leadership to
management units         Coordination Office   mid-term review and  coordinate stakeholders in
established and          staffed, furnished and  completion reports.  the government and donors
strengthened             equipped
1.2 LSU staff trained  Quarterly Financial
and adequately        Monitoring Reports
equipped              (CAR)
2. Training curriculum   2.1 A cohort of gender  Supervision reports,  Retention of a large
developed, training      balanced senior       mid-term review and  portion of trained officials
programs delivered in    executives and        completion reports.  in the civil service after the
AEP, MDP and POP, and    parliamentarians                           completion of the training
key officials gained     strengthened their    Annual independent   programs
relevant knowledge and   leadership and        evaluation report
enhanced skills to lead and  management skills  (CAR/TCO)           PMGs proceed effectively.
manage public sector
reforms                  2.2 Groups of gender  Course evaluation by
balanced middle       participants at the end
managers enhanced     of each course
knowledge and skills  (CAR/TCO)
to implement key
public sector reforms
2.3 groups of gender
balanced junior
professionals
improved their policy
development skills
-45-



MM rf6                       -of'            r -  __
2.4 groups of                            Cooperation and
provincial officials                     commitment of provincial
enhanced skills in                       authorities to actively
deconcentration,                         participating in the training
budget management                        programs
and procurement
(See Attachment I to
Annex I for detailed
quantitative
benchmarks related to
the training programs)
3. Institutional and human  3.1. Technical    Supervision reports,  The Governments financial
resource capacity of CAR,  assistance, training  mid-term review and  commitment to retaining
MEF, RSA and EFI         and related equipment  completion reports.  trained trainers and
enhanced.                to the HRD Unit                           continuing the training
provided, including  Annual independent   programs after the
HRMIS developed,     evaluation report    completion of the Project
managed, and         (CAR/TCO)
operationalized
3.2. EFPPMU staff
improved professional
skills in
macromodeling and
budget monitoring
3.3. RSA training
facilities renovated
and furnished
3.4. At RSA/EFI,
trainers trained,
translation facilities
and resources
equipped, Khmer
language materials
developed
(See Attachment I to
Annex I for detailed
quantitative
benchmarks)
4. GDLN center built, and  4.1 GDLN center    Supervision reports,  Enhancement of financial
made fully operational   offered development  mid-term review and  viability by an increased
learning tools and   completion reports.  use of GDLN center by
opportunities for                         other donors, NGOs and
innovative capacity  Annual independent   the private sector, and by
I building activities  evaluation report    cost reduction through an
-46-



FIi Fir of o1rmave 
(CARITCO)             improvement of IT
4.2 Center achieved                        infrastructure in Cambodia
cost-recovery targets  GDLN center
from service provision  evaluation report
related to its policy
(see Attachment I to  and business plan
Annex 1 for           (CAR/GDLN center).
quantitative
benchmarks)
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget      Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          for each                                    Outputs)
component) US$M
1. Project management    US$0.76               Supervision reports,  Establishment of close
mid-term review and  partnership with
2. Training program       US$2.25              completion reports.   experienced training
development and                                                      institutions for curriculum
implementation                                 Quarterly Financial   design and training
Monitoring Reports   delivery
3. Institutional          US$0.82              (CAR)
development                                                          Commitment of CAR, RSA
and EFI to establishing and
4. Global Development     US$1.92                                    maintaining effective
Learning Network                                                     organization and
cooperation for quality
service delivery
RCG commitrnent to
selecting candidates based
on pre-established,
transparent conditions and
criteria
-47-



Attachment I to Annex I
Quantitative Benchmarks of Key Performance Indicators
Performance Indicators               Mid-Term          End of        Source of
Review         Project          Data
L Impact/Outcome indicators
1. Retention of trained public officials in civil
service-the management development program
(MDP) and the professional development program
(PDP)
a. The number of trained officials retained  80%           80%        Career tracking
in civil service after I year of training                         surveys
as percentage of total number of trained
officials
2. Extent to which acquired skills are used in the
workplace (MDP, PDP and training for provincial
officials)
a. The number of trained officials who use  50%            800/a      Career tracking
acquired skills in the workplace as                               surveys
percentage of total number of trained
officials
[1. Output indicators
Training Program Development
and Implementation
1. Total number of public officials trained under the
advanced executive program (AEP), MDP and
PDP
a. AEP                                       100            300       TCO
b. MDP                                       100            400       TCO
c. PDP                                       25             100       TCO
d. Training for senior provincial officials  50             200       TCO
(under MDP; workshops held in Phnom
Penh; emphasis on public financial
management, and selected topics on
governance and poverty reduction)     .
e. Training for provincial officials (under  50             400       TCO
MDP; workshops held in province; public
financial management)
2. The number of officials trained in Priority      500            2000       TCO
Mission Group inception workshops
3. Completion rates of each program (the number
of participants who passed exams and/or obtained
certificates as percentage of total participants)
a. MDP                                      70%o           80%        TCO
b. PDP                                      70%/o          80%        TCO
c. Training for Provincial Officials (under  70%           80%        TCO
MDP; including workshops in Phnom Penh
and provinces)
4. The ratio of trained female officials as        30%          Above 30%     TCO
percentage of total number of tained officials in
the programs
-48-



Performance Indicators               Mid-Term          End of        Source of
Review         Project          Data
5. Quality of training programs offered (measured
by the percentage of participants who evaluated
the program 'satisfactory' or better among five
choices - excellent, good, satisfactory, poor, very
poor)
a. AEP                                  60% or above    80% or above  Course
evaluation
b. MDP                                  60% or above    80% or above  Course
evaluation
c. PDP                                  60% or above    80% or above  Course
evaluation
d. Training for provincial officials    60% or above   80% or above   Course
evaluation
6. Program costs measured by unit cost per
participant hour (expected to decline as local
capacity develops and international involvement
declines)
a. AEP (baseline: US$19/participant         $18             $16       TCO
hour)
b. MDP (baseline: US$16/participant         $15             $10       TCO
hour)
c. PDP (baseline: US$16/participant         $15             $10       TCO
hour)
Institutional Development
7. Extent of involvement of local trainers in
training provision (participant hours taught by local
trainers as percentage of participant hours taught
by expatriate and local trainers, assuming that
expatriate trainers carry out training initially with
local trainers, and phase out as local capacity
develops.)
a. AEP                                      50%            60%        TCO
b. MDP                                      50%            80%        TCO
c. PDP                                      50%            80%        TCO
8. Use of training materials translated into Khmer
language (the number of modules in which course
materials have been translated into Khmer as
percentage of total number of modules)
a. MDP (coursework)                         60%            90%        TCO
b. PDP (coursework)                         50%            90%        TCO
49-



Performance Indicators                 Mid-Term          End of         Source of
Review          Project           Data
9. Expansion of the use of HRMIS in the
government
a.  The number of ministries/agencies          10              25         CAR
which have appointed trained officials on
HRMIS at their HRM Divisions.
b. The number of ministries/agencies            5              20         CAR
which have fully operational equipment and
use HRMIS on a regular basis.
10. Capacity development at the Economic and
Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit
(MEF)
a.  Macro (or financial) modeling           Officials       The model     MEF/CAR
trained and a   regularly used
model built    for ministerial
.______________ _  works
b. Public expenditure monitoring             Officials         The        MEF/CAR
trained and     instruments
monitoring    used for regular
instruments     monitoring
.______________________________________  developed      w orks
Distance Learning Center (DLC)
11. Use of DLC under each program (participant
hours taught by DLC as percentage of total
participant hours)
a. AEP                                        20%             200/o       TCO
b. MDP                                         5%              5%         TCO
c.  PDP                                        10%/0           10%/0      TCO
12. Extent to which the DLC business plan will have
achieved its targets:
a.  Revenues from service provisions         Set as in       Set as in    GDLN center
business plan   business plan
b. The ratio of annual revenues from         Set as in       Set as in    GDLN center
service provisions relative to annual     business plan    business plan
operating costs
c. Facility utilization rates                Set as in       Set as in    GDLN center
business plan   business plan
d. Cost per student hour                     Set as in       Set as in    GDLN center
I business plan    business plan
-50-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.76 Million
Project Management
A.     Strengthening the capacity of the Training Coordination Office
The CAR Secretariat will provide overall supervision to the Project. The Training Coordinator will report
to the Project Coordinator, and will be responsible for ensuring the completion of the design of the
curriculum, and training activities of the Project. The Training Coordinator will be also responsible for
developing partnerships with training suppliers (international and local) and will advise the Project
Coordinator on options for such relationships. In addition, the Training Coordinator will be responsible
for cooperative and effective working and delivery relationships with both RSA and EFI, and will engage
in the transfer of skills to aid institutional strengthening and sustainability. On day-to-day matters, the
Training Coordinator will liaise with the Project Manager, responsible for the day-to-day management of
the Project.
Since the Training Coordinator will play a central role in the Project and the facilitation of new training
methods for Cambodia, his or her office will be strengthened through consultants of a high caliber with
relevant experience, and who will work on the Project on a full time basis. IDA will finance expenses
including consultants who will work for the TCO during the Project duration, necessary furniture,
equipment, utilities, communication, and general office supplies for the TCO.
B.     Strengthening the capacity of the Logistics Support Unit
Logistics Support Unit (LSU), which already exists within the CAR Secretariat, will be tasked with the
management of procurement, disbursement, finance, and reporting. A finance manager has been
designated to lead the work of the LSU for the Project, and will be supported by a Project accountant, two
assistant accountants, a procurement officer at the LSU. IDA funds will finance office equipment used
for the Project at the LSU. Given limited experience in IDA-funded procurement procedures, IDA funds
will also finance a procurement advisor who will assist LSU staff in the first year of the Project in
carrying out procurement activities. In order to ensure transparent and efficient financial and
disbursement management of the Project, IDA funds will finance consultant services to assist LSU in
preparing the Financial Management Manual, install a specialized financial management software,
establish a computerized management system for LSU, and provide financial management, disbursement,
and procurement training for the staff of LSU. Annual auditing of the Project will be also supported by
IDA.
Project Component 2 - US$2.25 million
Training Program Development and Implementation (Annex 11 for more details)
A.     Curriculum development of AEP, MDP and PDP
Under the lead of the Training Coordinator, international partners (training institutions and/or regional
universities) and local training institutions (RSA and EFI) will jointly develop the training curricula.
Specific curricula will be developed for the six categories: (1) leadership and management; (2) policy
development; (3) public financial management; (4) human resource management; (5) governance and
-51-



public administration; and (6) poverty reduction. IDA funds will finance consulting services for
curriculum development.
In collaboration with CAR, RSA, and EFI and with advice from designated international training
institutions, the Training Coordinator will develop selection criteria and procedures for choosing
appropriate candidates to participate in the training programs and to carry out the selection of participants
(for suggestions of selection criteria, see Annex I1). These selection criteria will be heavily focused on
participants from sub national levels of Government for the Management Development Program (MDP)
and the Professional Development Program (PDP).
B.     Training provision under AEP, MDP and PDP
To the extent possible and consistent with existing practice, priority should be given to local resources for
program presentation. However, the nature of the new programs and teaching methods proposed under the
Project will present important new challenges in this regard. International consultant services will be
necessary for curriculum development, initial delivery of some courses, and the identification and
development of local trainers. Internationally reputable civil service training institutions and/or regional
universities will be identified as partners of the RSA and EFI. This could be described as a "setting-up"
phase and might have to extend for most of the training programs' first year, with less intensive
involvement thereafter. There could be less involvement of external resources in the delivery phase for
the MDP than for the AEP and PDP.
IDA funds will finance consulting services for training delivery. For the support of training service
delivery by RSA and EFI, IDA will finance expenses incurred for the provision of training, including
rent of classrooms for training delivery, office supplies and materials, and subsistence allowances (lunch,
refreshments).
C.     Training delivery for provincial officials
This sub-component aims to support the Government in launching and expanding training for provincial
officials under an umbrella of the MDP. Financial and budget management, procurement, and
deconcentration are identified as high priority areas for provincial training. Training in the areas of good
governance and poverty reduction is also deemed important for promoting broad participation at the
grassroots level and to thereby implement reforms and policies (RSA will provide this training).
Workshops will first be held in Phnom Penh by inviting senior provincial officials (for instance,
governors and general directors) to the capital city. After some experience is gained from workshops in
Phnom Penh, training workshops will be expanded by sending teams of trainers to key provincial cities
(starting at Battambang, Siem Riep, and Sihanoukville). Public officials from neighboring provinces are
invited for the provincial workshops.
To support training delivery, IDA funds will finance expenses incurred for the delivery of workshops,
including consultants services (trainers outside the civil service), rent for hiring classrooms, subsistence
allowances (lunch, refreshments), and office supplies and materials. In addition, IDA funds will finance
travel costs, accommodation, and per diem when trainers or participants are required to travel.
D.     Program evaluation and adjustment
This sub-component will support evaluating training programs and adjusting them to the need of capacity
building in the Government. While there should be an initial design, programs should not be regarded as
rigidly defined. They should be kept under evaluation since contents and coverage may need to be
modified as reform issues arise. The balance between topics needs to be kept under notice and adjusted as
-52-



necessary. IDA funds will finance consultant services to carry out annual program evaluations that would
recommend options for program adjustments at subsequent phases.
Project Component 3 - US$0.82 million
Institutional Development
A.     CAR: Institutional support for Human Resource Development Unit, including ERMIS
initiative
This sub-component provide support for the provision of technical assistance, training, and related
equipment to CAR's Human Resource Development Unit for the planning and monitoring of human
resources development activities. This includes support to the HRMIS initiative by (a) training the lead
information technology (IT) specialists of CAR; (b) training system support staff and programmers at
CAR, Treasury, Civil Service Secretariat, and targeted line ministries; (c) providing limited and well-
focused technology support to CAR and targeted ministries including the purchase of necessary
equipment; and (d) providing management training in policy formulation at CAR and targeted ministries.
In addition, the HRD Unit will plan, coordinate and monitor capacity building activities of the
administration, including the efforts by the EPSCB project. To undertake the above activities, the HRD
Unit would need support for (1) the design and implementation of IT tools (a skills database, HRD
monitoring tools); (2) the acquisition of necessary equipment; (3) training for the Unit staff and their
counterparts in ministries; and (4) regular workshops/seminars to monitor and coordinate capacity
building activities particularly in provinces. For the activities described above, IDA funds will finance
consultant services, associated equipment, training for the HRD Unit staff, and expenses associated with
workshops/seminars for monitoring and coordinating capacity building activities in provinces.
B.     MEF: Institutional support for the Economic and Financial Policy Planning and
Monitoring Unit (EFPPMU)
EFPPMU is expected to serve as the center for a new strategic budget management system in the entire
civil service. The tasks and responsibilities of the Unit will require highly competent staff with advanced
technical skills as well as exposure to best practices in regional and developed countries in relation to (i)
macroeconomic modeling and (ii) monitoring methodologies as used in World Bank's public expenditure
reviews. To strengthen the Unit to develop into a well-functioning institution, IDA funds will finance TAs
who will organize specialized training workshops for the Unit staff, and scholarships for selected staff to
attend (short term) overseas training programs relevant for the works at the Unit.
C.     RSA: Support for Training Coordination Office facility
The RSA will host the Training Coordination Office on its campus and deliver a large portion of training
programs under the current Project. The RSA will need adequate facilities to serve this purpose. IDA
funds will finance renovation (Training Coordination Office and two classrooms at RSA), equipment, and
furniture that are essential for training coordination and provision.
D.     RSA/EFI: Strengthening training capacity
(i) Training of trainers
With a view to sustaining training activities, the current Project aims to enhance the knowledge
and skills of trainers at the RSA and EFI. Cambodian trainers are expected to take on more
responsibilities over the course of the Project, eventually taking over full responsibility for the
training programn. To support this capacity building, IDA funds will finance selected trainers to
-53-



participate in short-term training programs at designated overseas training institutions or
universities.
(ii) Development of training materials in Khmer language
The Project aims to develop training materials in the Khmer language that will be used during and
beyond the duration of the current Project. This, along with the training of trainers, is to ensure
sustainability of training activities at RSA and EFI. IDA will finance translation services for
developing Khmer training materials.
(iii) Provision of interpretation services
In addition, provision will need to be made for live interpretation in the classroom when
expatriate presenters are involved. IDA funds will be allocated for purchasing necessary
equipment (mobile simultaneous translation device - headsets, microphone, etc.).
(iv) Library and information support
With a view to enhancing the access to development knowledge and information, the Project will
support the RSA and EFI in strengthening library and reference material collection, and
professional subscriptions for renowned international associations for civil service training. The
Project will also support the RSA in setting up a website for the ASEAN Resource Center as the
Government envisages to participate in the ASEAN Civil Service Forum. IDA funds will support
for the purchase of books and the subscription of reference materials.
Project Component 4 - US$1.92 million
Global Development Learning Network
A.     Construction of GDLN Distance Learning Center facilities
The Administrative Center at the RSA was identified as the most suitable site to support the GDLN
Distance Learning Center. The main advantage of this site is that the rooms can be custom-built
according to the specific design requirements, and because the building is detached from the main part of
the School, it will be separated from the School's main activities. Since the construction of the building is
estimated to take 8 to 9 months in total, priority will be given to civil works/facility development as soon
as some financing is arranged. IDA funds will finance civil works, equipment, and furniture for the
GDLN center.
B.     Management and Operation of GDLN Center
Since GDLN activities are new and innovative, particular attention will be paid to the management of the
center. The GDLN center will have a team of consultants including a director, information technician,
education specialist, administrative assistants, accounts assistant, and interpreter/translator. The Director
at the GDLN center reports to the CAR and has the overall responsibility for administering, managing,
and operating the Center so that it evolves into a self-sustaining Center within a period of four years. This
individual will be responsible for providing leadership within the Center and the community in the area of
distance learning and will be an agent for change. The management of the Center will be further
strengthened by international consultants that have relevant experience with GDLN in other countries and
can therefore advise the Center's management.
-54-



With the GDLN center's goal of becoming financially sustainability, IDA funds will finance the above
consultant services, marketing development (advertising, travel for promotion, and hospitality), and three
years of operating costs for the Center on a declining basis. This is to ensure that the Center will have at
least three years to ramp-up its service capacity and establish a cost-recovery structure for long-term
sustainability. The operating costs funded by IDA include reasonable expenses including utilities,
communication, general office supplies, transportation, and insurance.
C.     Capacity building of GDLN center staff
The Project will provide training for staff at the GDLN center during the initial stage of the Project.
Furthermore, the GDLN-EAPA (Global Development Learning Network, East Asia and Pacific
Association) will provide training for center teams and will help to facilitate dialogue between the center
managers and the content providers so that more effective and timely programming may be developed
and delivered. IDA funds will provide funding for the training of center staff (2 persons for 2 weeks).
-55-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component              US $million  US $million  US $million
Total Baseline Cost                                 2.12         3.19         5.31
Physical Condngencies                              0.05         0.05         0.10
Price Contingencies                                0.05         0.31         0.35
Total Project Costs1               2.22         3.54        5.76
Total Financing Required               2.22         3.54         5.76
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                 0.01          1.42         1.43
Civil Works                                           0.25          0.00        0.25
Consultants Services                                  1.04          1.79        2.83
Training and Workshops                                0.67          0.32        0.99
Operating costs                                       0.25          0.00        0.25
Total Project Costs1      2.22         3.54         5.76
Total Financing Required      2.22          3.54         5.76
1 Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.76 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is
95 5% of total project cost net of taxes
-56-



Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
The cost effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the costs of three modes of training delivery: (1)
international training (outside Cambodia); (2) local training by international and/or local trainers; and (3)
local training through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN). The first has been commonly
practiced for selected Cambodians with donor assistance. The second has been increasing, although not
mainstreamed, as local training institutions including universities gained experience and built capacity
gradually. The third is new to Cambodia, although there are a few precedents of long distance education
in partnership with universities in developed countries (e.g., Masters Degree Program in Macro and
Financial Economics at University of London in partnership with Cambodia Development Resource
Institute).
The unit cost of course delivery per participant per hour of instruction (or per day) is used as an indicator
for comparison. While this indicator reflects all measurable components, it should be noted that some
important qualitative aspects are neglected, such as the value of on-the-job training and access to state of
the art knowledge and information through GDLN. These qualitative benefits are difficult to measure,
but would need to be taken into account in a more comprehensive cost effectiveness analysis.
In the absence of reliable, comprehensive data on the training markets in Cambodia, preliminary data
gathered during the preparation missions are used in the following analysis. By their nature, the
indicators compared below should be interpreted as benchmark figures and are thus indicative only.
The Table below presents a unit cost comparison between (1) the international training envisaged under
the proposed TCAP Diploma Program in Public Economics (not yet in place or funded), and (2) the local
training under the proposed EPSCB project. The proposed Diploma Program aims to offer two semesters
of coursework for young professionals at MEF and other key ministries, involving 384 hours of
instruction and some additional project work. Two options are considered under the Program: -(1) all
lectures in country, and (2) half lectures in country and the remaining half overseas. The unit costs per
participant per hour are US$25 and US$31, respectively. If all students were taught overseas, the unit
costs would certainly go far beyond $30 per hour, taking into account travel and living costs.
For a comparison, three options are considered for MDP and PDP under the EPSCB, trained by: (1) a
foreign trainer, (2) a local trainer; and (3) a team of a foreign and a local trainer working together. The
unit costs per participant per hour for the respective options under EPSCB amount to $10 for Option I
(foreign trainer alone), $3 for Option 2 (local trainer alone), and $13 for Option 3 (team), assuming that
25 students are taught in a one week course. This is significantly less costly than the proposed Diploma
Program under TCAP. Further cost savings could be made if the number of students taught could be
increased by a team of trainers taking two classes simultaneously as presented in Options 4 and 5.
The third mode of training - local training through GDLN - appears to be more costly than the two
modes of training discussed above. According to experiences in other countries, unit costs per participant
per day depend a great deal on the capacity utilization rates of the GDLN facilities. For instance, in
Africa, the unit cost per participant per day is expected to decline down to near $100 or below, when the
capacity utilization rate reaches 60 percent.
This is not to say, however, that GDLN is the most expensive mode of training delivery. Providing
scholarships for full time overseas training has been a standard practice of capacity building in the past,
and this is the most expensive mode of training since the unit cost is very high and the number of
participants is small. It is clear that GDLN has the potential to save the costs of this type of training by
-57-



permitting a larger number of participants to have access to advanced education in country. Furthermore,
qualitative aspects of GDLN such as access to state of the art development knowledge and infornation
would need to be taken into account for a fuller cost effectiveness assessment.
Comparison of unit costs
Program                             Total cost  Number of Unit cost     Unit cost
per         hours       per hour   per day (8
participant                        hours)
(US$)
(1) Proposed Diploma Program in
Public Economics (TCAP)
Option 1: Full local training        $9,599        384         $25        $200
Option 2: Hal local and half overseas  $11,791     384         $31        $246
training
(2) Proposed EPSCB (40 hour
instruction per participant per week)  _       _
Option 1: Foreign trainer alone     $383            40         $10         $77
Option 2: Local trainer alone       $130            40          $3         $26
Option 3: Together (I foreign; I local) in  $513    40         $13        $103
learning mode*
Option 4: Together (I foreign; I local) in  $513 (for  80       $6         $51
tandem**                            80 hours)
Option 5: Together (I foreign; 2 local) in  $643 (for  80       $8         $64
tandem**                            80 hours)
* working together, with the local trainer "sitting in" for learning purposes; i.e. no extra students
** working together and taking two classes simultaneously in cooperation. This effectively doubles
the hours of presentation and reduces unit costs.
-58-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Year Ending on June 30, 2006
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
I Year I    ear2    Year 3 r Year 4 r Year a   Year 6 I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs     1.51      1.13     1.40     1.47      0.0      0.0     0.0
Recurrent Cost,       0.02     0.07     0.07     0.08      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs    1.53      1.20     1.47     1.55     0.0       0.0     0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA             1.48     1.15     1.40      1.46     0.0      0.0      0.0
Govemment            0.05     0.05     0.07     0.09      0.0      0.0      0.0
Central
Provincial
Co-financiem
User
Fesslmeneficlarles
Others
Total Project          1.53      1.20     1.47     1.55      0.0     0.0      0.0
Financing
-59-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Procurement
PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES:
The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines
on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement of Consulting services will be done in accordance with
the World Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, Revised September 1997, and January 1999). Any goods, works and services not financed
in whole or in part by the World Bank will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations of the country.
STANDARD BIDDING DOCUMENTS:
IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and works, and IDA's standard evaluation reports, standard
request for proposals, and standard forms of contracts for all consulting services will be used under the
Project. A standard quotation solicitation form and contract form for works and goods should be
developed for procurement to be carried out through shopping procedures.
ADVERTISEMENT:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development Business,
announcing all procurement of goods, works and consulting services to be procured under the Project.
Specific Procurement Notice in Development Business will also be required for all consulting assignments
exceeding US$200,000 per contract. Notification and advertising will be carried out in accordance with
the provisions in the Guidelines.
ASSESSMENT OF AGENCY'S CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT:
The World Bank's appraisal mission carried out a capacity assessment of the Secretariat of the Council
for Administrative Reformn (CAR) under the Council of Ministers (Reference Assessment Report on file).
From the result of assessment, the mission found that the CAR Secretariat has limited experience with
procurement under IDA financed projects. Also, there are few IDA related technical assistance projects
that the CAR Secretariat has been involved in implementing. To date most IDA financed has been
managed by the PMU in Ministry of Economy and Finance. Hence, the capacity of the CAR Secretariat to
handle the procurement activities is weak.
In order to ensure that procurement under the proposed Project will be accomplished in a transparent and
timely manner and to build procurement capability, the CAR Secretariat has agreed to take a set of time-
bound actions. The main actions are: (1) official appointment of a procurement officer at the LSU
(effectiveness condition); (2) the selection of a procurement advisor assisting the LSU in the initial stage
of the Project (effectiveness condition), and the employment of the procurement advisor as a condition of
disbursement against the expenditures in Goods category (disbursement condition); (3) preparation of a
Procurement Manual (within a month after appointment); and (4) initiation of training for the LSU staff
by a consulting firm or individual consultant(s) ( effectiveness condition).
-60-



The draft Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) dated March 31, 1997, reviewed the
procurement laws and regulations of the country and identified the differences between IDA policy and
above mentioned sub-decree and regulations.
Presently, most of the Cambodian procurement practices stated in the IRRs are consistent with
international procurement practices. In accordance with the above Sub-Decree, the said Regulations
permit the application of World Bank Guidelines and other loan conditions for the procurement of goods,
works and consulting services in World Bank projects. In the case of International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), the World Bank Guidelines and mandatory Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) are followed by
all agencies. In the case of National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the World Bank has not issued detailed
procedures or SBDs. However, most of the local procurement procedures follow the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines. However, there are the following exceptions:
Goods and Works
1) negotiation are allowed with the lowest bidder to reduce the price when all bids exceed the cost
estimates;
2) there is a requirement for the prior registration of foreign firms to be able participate in NCB
procedures;
3) a merit point system is permitted for pre-qualifying firms instead of pass/fail minimum criteria for pre-
qualification;
4) foreign contractors are requested to enter into a joint venture with a local firm(s);
5) different deadlines are permitted for submission of a bid and for opening the bid;
6) price adjustment provisions are not used for local bidding;
7) bidders may withdraw bids without forfeiting bid security, if they disagree with the correction of
arithmetical errors in their bids.
Selection of Consultants
8) No provision is made for negotiation with the second ranked firm when the negotiation with the
lowest ranked firm fail.
Because of the above differences between the World Bank Guidelines and the Cambodia Procurement
Rules, the differences between the country's and the World Bank's procurement procedures are
incorporated into the DCA as an Annex to Schedule 3 to the DCA.
Based on the risk assessment and the findings of the draft Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR, 1997), the thresholds for prior review and supervision plan have been set and are presented in
Table C. These thresholds have been reviewed during appraisal and have been found consistent with the
identified risks.
-61-



PROCUREMENT METHODS:
Procurement of Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Procurement of civil works for renovation building with furniture
of Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) and training coordination office will be procured
through NCB procedures as the relatively small value is not of interest to foreign competition. NCB
procurement document will be prepared and submitted to IDA for concurrence. The aggregate amount for
this procedure will be US$0.247 million. The maximum contract threshold for a contract associated with
the NCB for works will be $0.200 million.
Procurement of goods:
National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Procurement of goods for computers, hardware & network
application, office equipment and materials, furniture and mobile simultaneous translation facility for
project management and institutional development components with contracts estimated to cost $25,000
or more but not more than $ 100,000 will be procured through NCB procedures, which will be reviewed
and found acceptable to IDA. Local infrastructure equipment and associated services for GDLN Distance
Learning Center will be also procured through the NCB procedures. The aggregate amount under this
procedure will be around $ 0.233 million.
National Shopping (7VS): Procurement of goods such as office equipment, computer and furniture below
$25,000 per contract, will follow national shopping procedures as the relatively small value, the materials
are readily available off-the-shelf goods and standard specification commodities for which more
competitive methods are not justified on the basis of cost or efficiency. The contract will be awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic suppliers. Request for quotations
will include a detailed description and quantities of goods, basic specification as well as the desired
delivery time and place and an acceptable form of contract. The qualified firm offering the lowest
evaluated price quotation will be contracted. The aggregate amount through national shopping procedures
is $ 0.133 million.
Direct Contracting:
Direct Contracting will be used for the library collection books, reference materials, which are proprietary
and obtainable only from one source. The aggregate amount falling under this category will not exceed
$0.043 million.
In addition, the Government has agreed to procure GDLN equipment and associated services through the
option offered by IDA of using the services of firm(s) selected by IDA. These include procurement of
local connectivity equipment, global connectivity equipment, pedagogical tools and logistics, and
associated services for the GDLN equipment. The aggregate amount of GDLN equipment procured
through this Direct Contracting method is $1.028 million.
The principal reasons in accepting that option are:
a)   Videoconference technology is a relatively new concept for Cambodia and the application and
integration of an IP based videoconference to a global network, such as GDLN, has never been
undertaken before. The integration of the interactive visual, audio, and data display for instructional
purposes will require considerable skill and experience (that is not found in Cambodia) to ensure
compatibility with the global network.
b)  In view of the fact that compliance with the World Bank's Global Communication System (GCS)
Hub and the GDLN network is a prerequisite, the understanding and knowledge of the GDLN
specifications is very essential to carry out the task mentioned in item a). Practically, at present, such
-62-



knowledge is only possessed by the World Bank's ISG. Under this option, the additional oversight is
provided by the World Bank's ISG in pre-selecting and training a qualified vendor is considered crucial
in the successful implementation of this component.
Under this approach, the World Bank is managing the competitive procurement process for the
integration of services and pedagogical equipment, and has recently completed the "Request for
Proposals" (RFP), which will be a public document made available to country institutions and
organizations providing financing for GDLN centers. However, once the contractor (s) have been
competitively selected, the Borrower selecting these services would be able to procure the integration of
services and pedagogical equipment through its own independent contracts (as a single source selection
from the point of view of the Borrower) with the selected firm. The Contractor will buy, stage, and test
the Equipment. At the conclusion of the Equipment Acceptance Test and Protocol, the equipment will be
shipped by the Contractor and installed by the World Bank's ISG.
The justification of this single source selection is that this option is expected to offer the lowest cost to the
Borrower and minimize risks to the quality of the network communication services provided by the
World Bank to the GDLN. If the Borrower had not chosen this option and decided to procure this
equipment through ICB, it would have been required as a condition of accessing the World Bank's Global
Communication System (GCS) Hub and the GDLN network to accept in writing that the World Bank's
ISG will provide final inspection and certification of network readiness for their DLC(s).
Consulting services:
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): The consultants' assignments for consulting firms which the
estimated cost will be around $ 1.302 million for implementation of training programs for advanced
executive, management development, professional development, and associated curriculum development
would be procured through QCBS procedures.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (SBCQ). SBCQ procedures will be used to select the
consultants for the development and training of a computerized financial management system, evaluations
of the programs, translation and interpretation services, and extemal audit with the contract amount below
$ 100,000. The consultants with the most appropriate qualification and references may be selected from a
shortlist based on requested expression of interest from qualified firms, all in accordance with paragraph
3.7 of the guidelines. The aggregate amount through SBCQ procedures is $ 0.165 million.
Individual Consultants. Selection of individual consultants for assignments such as procurement advisor,
local trainers to deliver training programs for advanced executive, management development,
professional development, and curriculum development; GDLN management, training coordinator and
development of Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) will be carried out in
accordance with provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines. The aggregate
amount would be around 1.363 million. The relatively large amount of procurement through individual
consultants procedures, rather than through a single firm, is justified for the following reasons. The
training programs envisaged under the Project cover diverse areas and subjects, and for this reason it is
difficult to find a single firm (i.e., university or research institute) in Cambodia that could provide all local
trainers (consultants) from their own resources. In addition, expertise required for GDLN management,
training coordinator (under the CAR), and the development of IT system for HRMIS and HRD Unit at
CAR are very different, and therefore it is highly unlikely that a single firm in Cambodia could provide
all the expertise.
Training and Workshops
Training and Workshops covers reasonable expenditures incurred for training and workshops including
office supplies, training materials, costs for translation of training materials, consumables, travel costs
-63-



including per diems for provincial government officials who travel to Phnom Penh for training and for
local trainers who travel to selected provinces or to Phnom Penh to provide training, and costs of renting
training facilities, but excluding fees paid to trainers (which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the Project). The aggregate amount of costs under this category is estimated at around $0.993
million.
Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental Operating Costs cover reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of (i)
the operation of the GDLN center, including the insurance costs of the GDLN center, (ii) project
administration, management and monitoring, including office supplies, utilities costs, telecommunications
expenses, vehicle operation and maintenance, and bank charges (which expenditures would not have been
incurred absent the project), but excluding salaries or salary supplements of officials of the civil service.
The aggregate amount is estimated at around $0.251 million. Procurement of this category will follow the
Government regulations in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Advance Procurement
In order to ensure that the procurement arrangements will be done in proper manner and project activities
will be implemented in time, it is urgent that the LSU proceed with the hiring of a procurement advisor as
soon as possible. If this hiring takes place before signing the credit agreement, advance procurement shall
be done in accordance with the World Bank's procurement guidelines and follow the procurement
procedures, including the prior reviews requirement, and will be financed by IDA funds through
retroactive financing.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     Procurement Methodl             Total Cost
ICB      NCB     Others2'
Civil works                       0.247                0.247 (0.223)
(0.223)
Goods                   0.000     0. 233    1.205       1.438 (1.436)
(0.000)   (0.233)   (1.203)
Consulting Services                        2.830       2.830 (2.688)
(2.688)
Training & Workshop                         0.993      0.993 (0.993)
(0.993)
Incremental Operating                       0. 251     0.251 (0.157)
Cost                                       (0. 157)
Total                                                5.759 (5.497)
"L All costs include contingencies and figures in parenthesis are the amnounts to be
financed by the Credit.
2/ This column includes National Shopping (NS) and Direct Contracting (DC) for
Goods, and QCBS, SBCQ, and Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultant Guidelines) for Consulting Services, and Non-Bank Financing.
-64-



Table B: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant,                   Total Cost (includin contin gencies)
Services      QCBS      SBCQ         Other      NIF
Expenditure
Category
A. Firms           1.302     0.165                                 1.467  (1.393)
(1.237)   (0.156)
B. Individuals       -         -          1.363                    1.363  (1.295)
(1.295)
Total        1.302      0.165       1.363                    2.830  (2.688)
(1.237)   (0.156)      (1.295)
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBCQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines).
-65-



PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS:
All contracts subject to NCB and Direct Contracting procedures will be required prior review by IDA.
The first contract for goods using shopping procedures for each year will be also subject to prior review
by IDA. The prior review includes: complete draft bidding document, bid evaluation report and draft
contract.
Consultant contracts estimated to cost $100,000 or more for firms and $50,000 or more for individuals, all
TORs and methods of selection, irrespective of value, shall be subject to prior review by IDA. All other
contracts and the Statement of Expenditures shall be subject to post reviews.
IDA's supervision missions will review a half of the contracts that are subject to post reviews.
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure      Contract Value      Procurement     Prior Review/Estimated
Category         (Threshold)          Method        Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                         (US$ millions)
1. Works                  0                NCB             All / 0.247
2. Goods                  0           Direct Contracting     AlI/ 1.071
<25               NS          First contract of each
year /0.003
225              NCB               All/ 0.233
3. Services        (Indiv.) 250            Other                 0.783
(Firm) 2100             QCBS                  1.302
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:          3.639
Total Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review: US$ 3.639 million which is around 63.2 percent
of the combined total value of the project cost of US$ 5.759 million.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High, which will be mitigated by hiring regional procurement
advisor in advance to provide detailed assistance during the bidding of all works, goods and services
tendering process as well as evaluating and following up the procurement matters.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One supervision mission every 6 months
(a procurement staff will be included in the supervision mission to carry out post-reviews).
-66-



Disbursement
Allocahon of Credit Proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit would be made against expenditure categories as shown in
Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$million      Financing Percentage
Civil Works                             0.21                     90%
Goods                                    1.42          100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' services                   2.64                     95%
Training and Workshops                  0.97                     100%
Incremental Operating costs             0.15
(a) GDLN Operating Costs         (0.05)         80% of expenditures incurred on
or before April 30, 2004, 50% of
expenditures incurred on or before
April 30, 2005, and 20% of
expenditures incurred thereafter
(b) Other Incremental            (0.10)         85% of expenditures incurred on
Operating Costs                                or before April 30, 2003, 75% of
expenditures incurred on or before
April 30, 2004, and 65% of
expenditures incurred thereafter
Unallocated                             0.11
Total                                   5.50
Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs):
For goods, except those procured by Direct Contracting methods, estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$25,000 or less, consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less, individual
consultants' contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less, training, and incremental
operating costs, withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All
civil works contracts, goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, and individual consultants' contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, withdrawal applications would be supported by full
documentation and signed contracts.
Special Account
To facilitate credit disbursement, the LSU of the Council for Administrative Reform (CAR) of the
Council of Ministers (COM) shall maintain a separate dollar special deposit account in its Central Bank or
-67-



a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA including appropriate protection against
set off, seizure and attachments. The Special Account (SA), which would cover the IDA share of eligible
expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation of US$200,000 with an
initial withdrawal of US$40,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
SA. When the amounts withdrawn from the Credit total US$ 1 million equivalent, the initial withdrawal
will be increased to the authorized allocation. Applications to replenish the Special Account should be
submitted regularly, preferably monthly (but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn
equal 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
Financial Management and Reporting Arrangements
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
A financial management capacity assessment was carried in accordance with Guidelines to Staff issued by
the Financial Management Board dated June 30, 2001. At present, within Council of Administrative
Reform (CAR), there is no financial management system (FMS) which meets IDA minimum
requirements in financial management as required in OP/BP 10.02. Office of the Council of Ministers,
where CAR is located, has limited experience in implementing IDA financed projects. Therefore the
financial management risks of the Project are considered high.
In order to minimize FM risks, it was agreed that a series of actions to design and install a financial
management system should be taken including appointment and training of financial management staff.
These actions would include design of a Project Financial Management Manual and a chart of accounts
appropriate to the requirements of the EPSCB project as well as carrying out a training program of FM
staff on accounting and IDA disbursement procedures. The Borrower agreed to hire a consulting firm(s)
and/or individual consultants to undertake such actions before the effectiveness of the Project. The Project
financial management arrangements agreed are described below.
Project Financial Management
Project Organization. The Council for Administrative Reform (CAR) will be the executing agency,
responsible for management and overall coordination of the Project. The existing Logistics Support Unit
(LSU) within the CAR Secretariat will be tasked to ensure satisfactory processes are followed in all
accounting, procurement and disbursement matters and to ensure that disbursement and financial reports
are made on a timely basis. . In addition, a Training Coordination Office (TCO) will be established for
managing all training programs and activities under the Project. The main training providing agencies
will be the Royal School of Administration (RSA), the Economic and Finance Institute (EFI) of MEF,
and selected international training institutions and/or universities.
Organizaton and Staffing of Financial Management Function. The LSU shall hire staff with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA for financial management of the Project. The staffing
shall consist of a Project Accountant, and at a minimum two Assistant Accountants to ensure adequate
segregation of duties in (i) managing the SA; (ii) supervising and controlling financial activities; (iii)
invoice processing at the LSU; and (iv) coordination of transaction processing and financial management
with other implementation agencies. Three staff from within existing CAR staff have been assigned for
Project financial management.  The persons selected as the project accountant and the assistant
accountant possess sufficient educational qualifications and experience in financial management and
accounting. They are also familiar with IDA disbursement procedures as previous work experience
included work on the Council of Ministers component for IDA funded Technical Assistance (TA) project
(now closed). The accounts assistant is sufficiently experienced and trained on general accounting work.
Each IA such as the Royal School of Administration (RSA) and the Economic and Finance Institute (EFI)
-68-



shall assign an accounts/administration assistant within each training provider to initiate payment
requests, to obtain approval at the training providers and for forwarding the documentation to the LSU for
payment.
Staff Training. Program of staff training to enhance the skills of the three key staff at LSU will be
undertaken prior to project effectiveness. The training shall include general training on operating the
computerized accounting system, training on Project Financial Management Manual and training on IDA
disbursement procedures. The Project Accountant shall be responsible for training of the training
providers' accounting assistants on accounting procedures.
Fund Flow. IDA funds ($5.5 million) will be channeled through a Special Account to be held and
managed by the LSU. Government Counterpart Funds will be channeled through a Project Bank Account
assigned for the Project and managed by the LSU. Training providing agencies shall not be advanced
funds from the SA and all payments from the SA shall be made directly from the LSU.
Accounting Procedures. LSU would be responsible for ensuring that IDA guidelines and procedures are
followed on disbursements, accounting and overall financial management. The principal responsibilities
of LSU will include maintaining the Project's books of accounts, effecting payments from the Special
Account and the Project Bank Account, monitoring overall project disbursements, coordinating with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) on annual counterpart fund requirements, preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications to IDA, producing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs), the preparation of annual financial statements and having them audited, producing annual work
plans and budgets in coordination with the training providers and for overall financial management of the
Project. These responsibilities shall be described in detail in the Project Financial Management Manual.
All expenditures eligible for IDA financing must be authorized for payment by a designated senior
official of each training providing agency. The authorized payment request, including duly certified
contracts/invoices from the training agencies, shall be submitted to LSU which will check documents for
accuracy and completeness. The LSU will process the invoices for payment based on payment approval
procedure established for the Project. The LSU will in addition process payments for centrally managed
procurements and other Project expenditures initiated by the TCO or CAR. Expenditure for payments
from counterpart funds will be authorized in a similar manner. The accounting staff assigned for the
Project within the LSU will be responsible for ensuring that the necessary approvals are obtained prior to
processing payment. Payments from the Special Account will only be in respect of expenditures actually
incurred and must be supported by approved vouchers for payment.
Accounting system. A computerized accounting system, with a chart of accounts which will appropriately
identify project components and IDA disbursement categories will be established to facilitate financial
management activities. The financial management system including detailed guidelines on payment
authorization, cash management, month and year-end closing and financial reporting will be further
explained in the Project Financial Management Manual to be finalized as part of the financial
management system. Establishment of the financial management system for the Project and appointment
of a qualified and trained Project Accountant and at least two assistant accountants at the LSU and an
assistant accountant at each training agency will be a condition of effectiveness.
Retroactive Financing
The Government has requested retroactive financing for expenditures to purchase equipment (computer,
printer, etc.) for the training of LSU staff and to finance a procurement advisor. The amount of
retroactive financing will be up to $30,000 equivalent subject to IDA's standard procurement guidelines.
-69-



Disbursement Arrangements
The LSU shall prepare Withdrawal Applications to be submitted to IDA Signatories on IDA Withdrawal
Applications will be designated by the Borrower after signing the credit agreement.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
The Project shall provide IDA with regular reports on fiduciary aspects of project implementation, to a
standard acceptable to IDA. These reports shall include a Statement of Source and Application of funds,
a Balance Sheet and a report on physical progress. The above reports shall emphasize linkages between
expenditures and physical progress as an important aspect of overall project monitoring and the formats
for these have been agreed at negotiation. The chart of accounts and the reporting module of the
accounting package will be customized appropriately to facilitate the reporting needs. The LSU will be
responsible for submitting the FMiRs to IDA within 45 days of the quarter end starting the first quarter
following Project's first disbursement. Additional output monitoring reports will be developed, if
appropriate, during implementation.
Audit
CAR will be responsible for ensuring that the annual project financial statements are audited and for
forwarding these to IDA. The audit should be carried out by an independent auditor appointed under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The auditor shall be required to express opinions on: (i) The
project financial statements; (ii) whether the Special Account funds have been correctly accounted for and
used in accordance with the Credit agreement; and (iii) the adequacy of supporting documents and
controls surrounding the use of the Statements of Expenditures as a basis for disbursements. The audited
financial statements will be submitted to IDA within six months of the year-end.
Supervision Plan
As the project staff and the financial management system is newly established for the Project, an initial
supervision prior to effectiveness is recommended. This supervision mission will test the FM system, its
functionality and the understanding of FM procedures by staff. Thereafter, FM supervision shall take
place at six monthly intervals during project implementation.
-70-



Strengthening of Financial Management
It has been agreed that CAR shall carry out a time-bound action plan as stated below for to ensure that an
adequate financial management system is in place before credit effectiveness:
Action Item       ResponsibDlity    Action Date
Formally appoint the   CAR            Before the
following nominated                   effectiveness
staff at pre-existing
LSU.
(a) Project
Accountant
(b) Assistant
Accountants
(Two)
Finalize the Project   LSU            Before the
Financial Management                  effectiveness
Manual
Design chart of        LSU/MEF        Before the
accounts, install                     effectiveness
software, and initiate
staff training.       _
Prepare first set of   LSU            End of quarter
FMRs.                                 following Credit
first disbursement
-71-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Project Schedule                              Planned                  Actual
(at final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    7                        18
First Bank mission (identification)           10/9/2000                10/9/2000
Appraisal mission departure                   4/30/2001                4/1/2002
Negotiations                                  5/7/2001                 5/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                6/15/2001                 8/1/2002
Prepared by: Council for Administrative Reform, The Council of Ministers
Preparation assistance: Australia CTF.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Su-Yong Song                   Senior Economist, Task Manager, EASPR
Barbara Nunberg                Lead Specialist, Advisor, EASPR
Toshiyasu Kato                 Consultant, EASPR
Denis Ives                     Consultant, EASPR
Geoff Dixon                    Senior Public Sector Specialist, EASPR
Ana Frischtak                  Junior Associate, EASPR
Sonya Woo                      EAP GDLN Associate Coordinator, EASHD
Robert McGough                 Consultant, EAPVP
Vidoje Brajovic                Lead Information Officer, ISGGC
Mary O'Kane                    Senior Advisor, AUSAID
Lawry Trevor-Deutsch           Consultant
Chinnakorn Chantra             Procurement Officer, EACTF
Wijaya Wickrema                Senior Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO
Preethi Wijeratne              Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO
Karin Nordlander               Lead Counsel, LEGEA
Mei Wang                       Counsel, LEGEA
Omowunmi Ladipo                Senior Financial Management Specialist, LOAG3
Nancy Mensah                   Program Assistant, EASPR
-72-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Being prepared by the Government
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Pre-appraisal mission Aide-Memoire: March 2001
* Training needs and design assessment mission note: November 2001
*  Project design mission Aide-Memoire: February 2002
*  GDLN Mission Aide- Memoire: January 2002.
* Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire: April 2002
*  GDLN Component Appraisal Aide-Memoire: April 2002
*  GDLN Financial Feasibility Study: April 2002
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-73-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
01-Mar-2002
Dfference bhween
Orginal Amount In USS Millons                                     and
actual
dlsbumfementse
Project ID     FY   Pupose                                         IMRD        IDA        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Oria    Frm ReVd
P071445       2002  KH - Demobilization and Reintegmtion             0.00     18.40       0.00      0.00      18.60        0.00        0.00
P073394       2001  KH-Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Proj           0.00     35.00       0.00      0.00      31.62       -2.13        0.00
P059971       2000  KH-EDUCATIONQUALITYMPROVEMENT                    0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00       2.35        0.68        0.00
P060003       2000  KH-Forest Concession Mgt & Control Pilot         0.00      4.82       0.00      0.00       4.18       40.30        0.00
P065798       2000  KH-BIO & PROTEC AREAS M                          0.00      1.91       0.00      0.00       1.52        0.66        0.00
P058544       2000  KH - Cambodia SAC                                0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00      13.72       20.04        0.00
P052006       2000  KHBIO&PROTAREAM                                  0.00      0.00       2.75      0.00       2.12        3.29        0.00
P058841       1999  KH-NORTHEAST VILLAGE                            0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00       3.17        3.46        0.00
P050601       1999  KH-SOCIAL FUND U                                 0.00     25.00       0.00      0.00       9.89       -1.32        0.00
P004030       1999  KH-Road Rehab.                                   0.00     45.31       0.00      0.00      36.30       30.26        0.00
P045629       1998  KH-URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                    0.00     30.96       0.00      0.00      10.93       12.79        5.52
P004034       1997  KH-DISEASE CONTROL & HEAL                        0.00     30.40       0.00      0.00       5.28        8.55        0.00
P004033       1997  KH-AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY                     0.00     27.00       0.00      0.00      16.20       18.53        10.72
IMPROVEMENT
Total:                                           000     25860        275       000      15686        9450         16.24
-74-



CAMBODIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval       Company                  Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi   Partic
2000              SEF ACLEDA Bank           0.00   0.49    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.49   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      0.00   0.49    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.49   0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000                SEF ACLEDA Bank                  1.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        1.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
-75-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMBODIA: Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
Cambodia at a glance
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &      Low-
Cambodia     Pacwt     Income      Dewlopment diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (milions)                        12 0     1.853    2,459                 Lile expectancy
GNI per capita (Ades method. US$)                     260      1,060      420
GNI (Alias method, USS bitlons)                        31      1,964     1,030
Average annual growth, 1t9440
Population (%)                                        2 5        11        1.9
Laborforce()                                          2 7        14       2 4      GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate flatest year available, 1914-00)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% o1population below national poverty ine)    36
Urban population (% ortoeal population)                16        35        32
Ltfe expectancy at birth (years)                       54        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              100        35        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)             47        13                     Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water soun e (of population)     30        75        76
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                   60        14        38
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)     113       119        96              -   Cambodla
Male                                                123       121       102                  Low-4ncome group
Female                                              104       121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1900      2000
EconomIk ratias
GDP (USS billions)                                     1 1       3 0       3 2              r
Gross domeatic InvestmanenUGDP                        8 2       15 8      Is 0    1                rd
Exports of goods and sarvicasiGDP                     6 1       37 2     40 1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             I16       3 9       5 3    |
Gross national savings/GDP                             5 6       3 7       5 0    1
Current account balance/GDP                           -4 5       9 4     -10 4     DomesUc                     Investment
Interestpayments/GDP                                  28         04       05       savings
Total debVGDP                                        166 4      75 1      74 0     s
Total debt service/exports                            34 1       2 9       10                       I
Present value of dabt/GDP                                       62 1
Present value of debUexports                                   183 0
Indebtedness
1050-90  1990-0      11"1      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          4.8       50        50        60             -Cambodia
GDP per capita                               20       27         27        40                   Low-income group
Exports ofgoods and services                151       191        50        50
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% ofIGDP)                                  1980     1900      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
140
Agriculture                                           55 6      39 6      371       T
Industry                                             112        188      205
Manufacturing                                        52 2
Services                                             33 2       416      42.4    '`*
Private consumption                                  91.2       898               j            so   07   sas    as   Do
General govemment consumption                         7.2        63
Imports of goods and services                        12 8       49 1     469                       _i9
1980-90  199040       1999      2000    IGrowth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            19        1.1       10     75
Industry                                              8 3        7 5      4 7     50-
Manufacturing                                        82 2
Services                                              6.9        81        9 3    2 
Private consumptlon                                    1.5       1 7                     Gs
General govemment consumpion                          -0 8       9 9              - -    r
Gross domestic Investment                            13 4       16 7         .Expoft                       :   Impons
Imports of goods and services                        10 3      22.6       5.0
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average If data are missing, tha diamond will
be Incomplete.
-76-



Camboda
PRiCESard GOVERNMENT RNANCE
low     1890      1999     2rioo ioftbnw%
Domntse vdeen
(% cherige)                                                                  z 
Corusus er pre es                                            4 0      4.8     s
tnplIdGDP delBar                                  145B       16       1.5    10
Govnmenatfinanac                                                              5- -  -55
(X of GDP, incAues cwTo,tgraants)
Current roverme                              ..    6B       14.6     15.6 
Cufnwt budgetbakrce                               -04        1 8      1 5                 OPddlator -     CFR
Overaflrl surolus/deficit                    .     -1 B      -4 4     -5.5
tRADE
1_80   1i90       199O     2000     bportandlmpaotleveis(USSmIl.l.
(USS mixons)
Totd exortS (bb)                             ..     86       971    1396      zou
Rubber                                             17      111       49
Loasandsomntimber                                  8        37       11     IAU 
Manutrcttres                                                                            *
Tdal kl parts (c)                            .     164     1.337    1 885     1               |0)
Food                                       ..      ..        ..              S
Ruel and energy
Caorial oods                                                                  0 1.3  o 0 Ir i.iir        w    i
iwo  iwo  lags            Cwrutacca~~~~~0 95saiboGByP(a%)
Exportoricendex1                                                         0995=10. .
inportprbce ndex(19 I010)                                  1Expor4s 7d1mo,s
Terms d trade (0                                             -78      -1 00)
BALANCE of PAYttENiTS
1eb90   19e0      1928     -030     Currenta countbalactoGD(%)
(USn ml4ons)
Exports or goords and servies                       so     1.131    1 600     o        .
knparts of goods and services                      183     1,407    1,9- 9*            *    *   *    *    *    -
Resrm balancee.                                    -95      -276     -319 
Nesthcome                                            0       -76      -8_              _   _ 
Noatcur rrant tnsters                               45        70      7 0    I40 
Current account balance                            40       -282     43 0     s
Rrenairhg Kom a(n et)                                        3 77     392
Ch auries I net reserves                    ..              -95       -82     4
mm o:
Restw lntidrin gold (USS miIans)                            422       484
Cowrisan rob (DEC. bcsiAJSS)                 .   537D     3.807.8  3.840 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
11 9i0  low9      1999     200
(USS milon.)                                                                  CodbLpdCo tlotn d 2000 ddbt (USSrIL)
Tdal debt u Ataneig and dbed                     1.854     Z262     Z357
IBRD                                               0         0        0                    01082
IDA                                        ..      0       180      207    I                 0       Ct73
Tetd debt srvice                            .       30        33       1 6
IBRD                                               0         0        0                                 D 174
IDA                                        .       0         1        1
Composlion dnetreasoutrcefws|
OfHial granrs                                     23       220      271
Officl credlars                           ..       0        38       78
Privatecr dkors                                    0        -3        0
Foren drectInvsestment                     ..       .      146      110
Partbioe8jtv                              ..       0E 18
Waoid Bank pogran
Commimenb                                          0        80       37     A- IBrD                   E-U,aUrrI
Disbusement                                ..      0        27       37     B- DA    0-Otherumwl8aer9l F. prbate
Pthripalrepaymenb                                  0         0        0     C-tIF                     0-SSWIoeMil
Net low                                    .       0        27       37
Iriterest peymerts                                 0         1        1
Net tnstrsf                                        0        26       35
Devebpmnert EcanamicsiEASPR                                                                                   9R170
-77-



Annex 11:
Detailed Description of Capacity Building Programs
Training Needs
Six categories of overall training needs have been identified. These categories, with subsidiary details,
are-
* Leadership and management practice
o  leadership concepts and issues
o  strategic planning and policy development
o  results-based management
o  key management practices in core corporate processes
o  project management
o  change management
*  Policy development and implementation
o  policy analysis
o  policy formulation
o  policy approval process
o  policy implementation
o  monitoring and evaluation
* Public financial management
o  budget planning and implementation issues
o  financial accounting, controls and accountability
o  public procurement (practices and standards)
o  use of information technology in financial management
o identification of program impact against Government objectives.
* Human resource management
o  strategic human resource management practices and issues
o  managing performance, working relationships and teams
o  selection, appointment and development policies
o  back office employment relations practices
o  personal efficiency issues
o  use of information technology (HRMIS)
* Governance and public administration
o good governance
o decentralization and deconcentration
o  communications and participation methods
o  compliance with civil service legislation and standards
o  ethics and anti-corruption
*  Poverty reduction
o understanding concepts of poverty reduction
o analysis and planning
o  project implementation
The relationship between the three programs and the six categories of training needs, in terms of Key
Target Areas and Secondary Target Areas is set out in Table A 11.1. and elaborated in more detail relevant
to training needs in Table Al 1.2.
-78-



Target Agencies
Public officials for the three Programs will be selected from the following three sub-groups of public
institutions, with an appropriate degree of participation of female civil servants, targeting specific units
and functions that are expected to play a critical role in key reform programs:
*  policy coordination ministries (Council for Administrative Reform, Economy and Finance,
Planning, Council for Development of Cambodia, and Reform Councils);
*  social ministries (Health, Education, Social Affairs, and Women's and Veterans Affairs); and
* economic line ministries (Agriculture, Rural Development, Transport, and Commerce).
*  Agencies at the sub national level (provincial departments and operational districts).
* Members of the National Assembly and their staffers concerned with parallel substantive
issues
Once the Government's priority mission groups (PMGs) are formed with clearly defined missions and
work schedules, the Project aims to provide training for the PMGs to the extent possible within the scope
and focus of this operation. This includes Inception Workshops.
Mode of Training
The mode of training envisaged under the EPSCB project is a selective combination of designated
coursework and supplementary and specialized workshops. The coursework is intended to provide
structured learning opportunities for a large number of officials and can be delivered effectively over the
period of the proposed assistance. However, it is intended to go beyond classical classroom type training
courses. A key theme is to match the training being provided with the changing demands being placed on
key officials and managers at the relevant levels of government. Emphasis would be given to action
learning, involving on-the-job activities and improvement in workplace competencies through
assignments and projects directly related to current work priorities. This would be particularly relevant to
any participants who are also PMG members.
The application of this approach would be developed through careful design of the proposed programs,
based on an assessment of training needs, "learning and development plans" for individual participants,
and monitored through mentoring and supervisory approaches.
A major advantage of action-oriented, self-learning methods is that these methods enable the program to
use the most valuable ability possessed by the candidates, namely their knowledge and experience of the
civil service system in which they operate, and even their frustrations and concerns about current
practices. In this latter context, the approach has to recognize that existing experience is usually
inadequate and due attention has to be given to change by focusing on best practice being adopted
elsewhere.
The training process would include structured group training in Cambodia in core skills, seminars and
workshops, limited short-term overseas training (higher level officials), study tours and conferences in the
region, and rotations within Ministries to undertake challenging reform tasks.
Modular design and the use of core and supplementary units for enhanced specialist requirements will be
adopted in this part of the program.
-79-



Program dimensions
The shape of the AEP, in terms of participants and time involved, would be along the following lines-
*  senior executives and selective Parliamentarians would be covered by this Program and not all
would participate at the same time
*  because of demands on these officials, this program would not be based on regular coursework
but on flexible short-term activities
*  seminars for (say) 30-40 officials at a time would be offered by invitation and there would be
about 4 such seminars per year; these seminars would be up to one day in length
*  seminars using GDLN could be used as appropriate (numbers would be related to the capacity of
the facility); these could be replicated to cover larger numbers of executives
*  there would also be short-term programs or courses (such as a 2 day program on leadership
concepts and issues, or governance issues), with high-level intemational providers
*  there would be provision for a small number of fellowships for participation in study tours and
programs in the region (proposals would be subject to consideration and approval on a merit
basis)
*  over the period of the Program, all senior executives should participate in these activities
The shape of the MDP, in terms of participants and time commitments, would desirably be of the
following order-
*  up to 400 participants;
* training to be provided to "teams" of about 20 participants at a time (up to 20 teams in total)
*  the coursework would aim at delivering 80 hours of instructional training for each participant.
The attendance time would include presentations and discussion sessions. In addition there
would be some time required for assignments related to workplace issues.
*  for each team, coursework would be arranged conveniently, say one week's attendance (about 35-
40 hours) at a time and then return to the workplace, with a second week's attendance after 2-3
weeks in the workplace. An altemative might be say 8 hours per week (1 day) for 10 weeks,
making a total of about 80 hours over the period of the program. The first alternative might make
programming easier and produce "graduates" earlier (after about 6 weeks).
*  as well as the proposed course work, there would be provision for a program of supplementary
workshops on relevant specific issues, or for specific groups of officials. These workshops would
relate either to current reform developments (such as further aspects of financial management) or
to practical issues (such as project report writing).
The shape of the PDP, in terms of participants and time commitments, would desirably be of the
following order-
*  up to 100 participants in total, made up of groups of about 15-20;
*  this is proposed to be a more intensive program, in terms of time commitment, because of the
need to develop policy skills as a high priority amongst those younger officials with initial
experience in government and potential for career advancement
*  the coursework would aim at delivering 160 hours of instructional training.
*  4 periods of weekly attendance (about 35-40 hours each) or 8 hours per week attendance over 20
weeks, making a total of 160 hours over the period of the program. The attendance time would
include presentations and discussion sessions. In addition there would be time required for
assignments and reports related to policy and reform issues.
-80-



* as well as the proposed course work, there would be provision for a program of supplementary
workshops on relevant specific issues, or for specific groups of policy-oriented officials. These
workshops would relate either to current and prospective policy developments, financial and
HRM issues, or new initiatives in governance, public administration and poverty reduction.
There may be potential time conflicts with other reform activities in the workplace, and the availability of
staff to meet the training objectives over an extended period may present some difficulties. There are also
ancillary time demands, such as those involved in "training the (future) trainers". All of these demands
need to be appreciated from the outset. These programming aspects would need to be addressed as more
detailed planning occurs.
The relative size and scope of these programs is shown in Table Al 1.3.
Contents of Training Programs
A. Advanced Executive Program
The Key Target Areas (KTAs) for this high level group are leadership and management, governance and
public administration and poverty reduction (see Table Al 1.1). The other three areas are regarded as
Secondary Target Areas (STAs). The KTAs are discussed below.
(a) Leadership and Management Practices
Leadership and management skills for this program are concerned with the topics of personal and
organizational leadership skills, strategic planning, results-based management, organizational reform and
development, and the concepts of modern management. Change management concepts and practices
would need to be included as these are important in implementing reforms.
(b) Governance and Public Administration
In terms of governance and public administration, there is a need for this program to build a greater
awareness of the policy implications of the Governance Action Plan (GAP) and civil service legislation
and principles and actions on ethics and anti-corruption.
Although the Government made important steps toward GAP implementation, the current monitoring
system needs to be strengthened toward a more rigorous mechanism. For instance, the development of
benchmarks and indicators would help the Government and stakeholders evaluate the progress and impact
of reform actions more objectively and systematically.
(c) Poverty Reduction
Poverty related issues include improving the understanding of poverty frameworks and poverty-focused
policy formulation, implementation, and monitoring (including gender equity). Concepts of improved
service delivery would be addressed under this topic.
Poverty aspects at this level would include developing strategic abilities in the design and improvement of
government programs, appropriate implementation of poverty-oriented reforms and the efficient use of
funds within programs. Poverty-focused content would include analyzing poverty reduction objectives,
identifying cross-sectoral linkages and their tradeoffs in the context of poverty reduction, financing and
designing service delivery options for reaching.
-81-



B. Management Development Program
The key areas for this large middle-ranking group are leadership and management, particularly
management practices, financial management, and HRM, particularly personal efficiency and teamwork.
(a) Leadership and Management Practices
Leadership and management skills for this program are concerned with the topics of personal leadership
and supervisory skills, results-based management and the practices of modern management.
In management, the coverage would tend more to fields such as organizational structures and methods,
work organization, and project management. Practical issues of work allocation and programming,
delegations of responsibility and task management would be covered. These are essential for the
application of management-oriented ways of working and achieving results at this level.
Project management is also an important area, given the project-oriented nature of future reform plans.
The issues of work allocation, delegations of responsibility, spans of control, task management and
accountability would need to be covered. Change management concepts and practices would need to be
included since these are important in implementing reforms.
An early contribution in this area might be to provide Inception Workshops on the role of PMGs and
issues in their establishment and commencement. This would be in the character of an orientation or
induction workshop, which could be repeated as necessary whenever new PMGs are established in order
to ensure a consistent approach at the outset.
(b) Financial Management
Two levels of need have been identified for implementation of better public financial management. The
first is general training in the existing budget execution systems. The second level of need is to provide
the training required for the new post audit based, performance focused, budget execution system
envisaged under the TCAP program. This requires capability building in budget management centers in
pilot line ministries (and eventually all ministries), both at the national and sub national level. This should
include the 'new' areas of output measurement, performance indicators and the role of internal audit.
Training in the specialized area of fiscal management practices is already being developed and provided
by the Economic Financial Institute (EFI) with ADB assistance, mainly to staff of MEF but also to some
other officials. This training is not intended to be duplicated under the EPSCB. However, within EPSCB
there is a need to provide participants in the implementation program with basic training in financial
management and planning, the role of Budget processes and the use of financial information and controls.
This will help extend knowledge and awareness of financial management issues to many officials in
PMGs, beyond the specialized fiscal management group in MEF and other Ministries. Any identified
needs for more specialized fiscal training will be handled by reference to EFI or through supplementary
workshops, which the EFI will be asked to provide. Moreover, it is intended to request the EFI, as part of
its participation in EPSCB, to be the provider of all units dealing with financial management.
There exist acute training gaps in fiscal management at the sub-national level. Attempts to create budget
management centres and streamlined disbursement have suffered because relevant officials are not
familiar with
* identification of the results of program activity in relation to Government objectives.
* how to prepare budgets for their spending units
-82-



* the costing of their activities for the purpose of requesting funds from higher levels
* financial control procedures
* preparation of accounting records and reports
* the nature of their accountability when they exercise new flexibility in making spending decisions.
In provinces and districts there is little understanding of prioritizing the use of budget funds, and funds are
not allocated to operational units on the basis of program activity levels. Instead a variety of informal
allocation processes prevail. Even in this case, managers of operational units often seem reluctant to claim
available funds due to uncertainty about the nature of their ex post accountability for the use of the funds.
While care will need to be taken to ensure that the training is coordinated with that provided by other
donors, discussions indicate that this is unlikely to be a problem since the activities of EFI and other
donors focuses on more specialized and intensive fiscal management training, which goes beyond what is
intended to be covered under the EPSCB. In this context, the EPSCB will be compatible and not
conflicting.
The Government's ongoing reformn toward a more deconcentrated and decentralized public finance
system points to the need for better procurement skills based on understanding of current legislation and
reform initiatives; and skills suitable for a more decentralized procurement system. Capacity building
needs in this regard would apply to the Department of Public Procurement at MEF and selected line
ministries, and at all levels of the administrations, including the central, provincial, and district offices.
There is also a critical need for training in managing procurement, especially with the introduction and
extension of the PAP. The development of procurement skills within donor projects provides a source of
good practice methodologies and standards.
Another critical area in public financial management is public procurement. Training programs would
involve some key elements such as: (a) best practices in procurement legislation, administration and
management in the region and the world; (b) lessons from experience in procurement reform in other
countries; (c) formulating policies toward procurement reform in Cambodia.
Other important aspects of procurement to be covered would be best practice in procurement within donor
projects, as a basis for extending good practice.
(c) Human Resource Management
In HRM matters the focus would be specific and practical. Some exposure to the more strategic issues of
HRM would be provided, but this training would be more concerned on the performance of human
resources in the workplace through better work allocation, team work and motivation and engagement of
junior staff. More specifically it would include coverage of:
* managing personal efficiency, effectiveness and work priorities
* providing leadership in the workplace by influencing others positively
* establishing effective workplace relationships
* facilitating work teams and their activities
* working to achieve results through work programming and monitoring of progress
*  monitoring performance and implementing specific work process improvements
* managing difficulties and resolving conflicts
* sharing workplace information through good communications
* building and maintaining networks of colleagues
-83-



* maintaining an effective workplace environment
* encouraging development of staff
* facilitating change in service delivery
C Professional Development Program
The key target areas for the younger professionals are policy development, financial management and
HRM. Secondary areas for this group are leadership and management, governance and public
administration, and poverty reduction, all of which will also be covered in this more intensive program.
(a) Policy development and implementation
This area will include a carefully designed focus on policy analysis, formulation, the policy approval
process, policy implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities needed to review progress and
results. Case studies will ensure a practical focus. Particular attention will be given to policy in poverty
reduction.
(b) Financial management
Results-based management referred to above is closely linked with public financial management, which
focuses on resource management generally, budget planning and management, financial control and
accounts management in order to use internal budget planning to replace external financial controls,
training in the financial costing of programs and project activities; training in the identification of outputs,
and cost-benefit analysis of projects; and training in the identification and reporting of program and
project performance indicators.
Participants will learn to understand the relevance and importance of-
*  identification of the results of program activities in relation to Government objectives.
*  general Budget preparation issues
*  budgets for their spending units
*  the costing of their activities
*  financial control procedures
*  the use of accounting records and reports
*  the nature of their accountability when they exercise new flexibility in making spending
decisions.
The training goal in this area is not to provide extensive specialized training in fiscal practices and
execution but to inculcate an understanding of the relevance of modern public sector financial
management highlighting differences from existing intemational practice in Cambodia. This will draw on
international best practice that could be relevant to Cambodia.
(c) Human Resource Management
Many of the comments made above about gaps in financial management capabilities apply equally to
HRM matters. There are many aspects about strategic use of HRM as well as specifics such as
appointments, transfers, motivation and performance, supervision and guidance that need to be addressed
by training (as well as by specific reform of such practices).
Experience from other countries indicates that HRM needs to encompass:
-84-



*  HR Planning and use of structures (largely depending on HRNIS analysis)
*  Understanding and applying staffing practices (in appointments, transfers, mobility and dealing
with absenteeism)
*  Remuneration and related conditions, including allowances
*  Performance management (including perfornance appraisal concepts, accountability issues and
dealing with poor performers)
*  HRD and HRD Plans (ranging from entry level training to continuing learning models)
*  Concepts of cooperation and team work in the workplace (including delegation of work and
concepts of teams and task forces, work programming and time-tabling)
The program would include coverage of all of the above, through core subject coverage and with
additional material for those with specialist requirements.
Secondary Target Areas
Other areas described as secondary target areas for the two areas of coursework are nevertheless
important in their own right and further comments are provided below.
(a) Governance and Public Administration
Public administration and governance includes understanding the obligations and duties of civil servants
as set out in CS legislation, decentralization and the improvement of service delivery to community level,
and govemance and anti-corruption issues such as Govemance Action Plan implementation and
monitoring.
Regarding governance, candidates in this program need to gain broad knowledge and deep understanding
of govemance issues, with a view to formulating and designing future governance policies and reforms in
Cambodia. There are already some leaming programs specifically designed for policy makers in
developing countries. For instance, this program could draw on appropriate material from selected
courses among World Bank Institute's action-oriented governance program for policy makers: (a)
national and sub-national governance and anti-corruption diagnostics and action programs; (b) effective
use of public resources (with special focus on utilizing resources to reduce poverty); (c) legal and judicial
reform; (d) media development and accountability; (e) parliamentary strengthening; and private-public
sector link for improved governance. General learning programs from international sources would be
combined with policy dialogues and discussions among participants and resource persons conceming
ongoing reforms in Cambodia, with a view to envisioning governance reform agenda and strategies in the
future.
(b) Poverty reduction
Poverty related issues include improving capacity and understanding of poverty frameworks and poverty-
focused policy formulation, implementation, and monitoring (including gender equity). Concepts of
improved service delivery would be addressed under this topic.
Poverty aspects would include developing strategic abilities in the design and improvement of
government programs, appropriate implementation of poverty-oriented reforms and the efficient use of
funds within programs. Poverty-focused content would include analyzing poverty reduction objectives,
identifying cross-sectoral linkages and their tradeoffs in the context of poverty reduction, financing and
-85-



designing service delivery options for reaching the poor, and managing the decentralized delivery of
services, monitoring and evaluation.
Participants from reform agencies would receive specialized, intensive training programs in project
management for governance projects. This training program would develop the capacity of
implementation groups to work with key donors in designing and formulating the implementation of
reform actions, including the development of work plans, monitoring benchmarks and indicators and
costing. This would collectively permit reform agencies to prioritize and sequence reform actions in the
framework of the GAP. It would be also desirable for participants to gain skills to monitor and evaluate
the value and relevance of donor-funded projects in general.
Curriculum Preparation
Specific curricula for these programs would need to be developed based on the recent training needs
assessment, and related to the overall needs of public management, policy and social development
objectives. The objective would be to create curricula (and learning materials) which would encourage
participants to learn and apply their new training to on-the-job issues. This is a significant work
component and would need to be done as one of the first components of the Project after approval.
External advisory services would be required for curriculum design and preparation of initial learning
materials.
The curricula would set out more specifically the detailed content of the programs to be delivered,
covering the principal topics-leadership and management, policy development and implementation,
public financial management, human resource management, public administration and enhancing
governance; and their strategic linkages with poverty reduction. Training needs to be covered by
curriculum development are identified in some detail in Table Al 1.1. The curricula in turn will be the
bases for the development of learning materials and presentations for delivery within the designed
programs.
The curricula would need to be differentiated between the coursework programs although there would be
inter-linkage and some common areas of coverage. The curricula for the PDP would have more of a
learning and education character while the MDP would be more practical and applied in nature. Costs of
curriculum development would be minimized by recognition of the similarities in topics to be covered,
but differentiation in degree would have to be recognized as well.
The programs for delivery of the coursework would be generic in nature and related to the major training
needs identified. They should not just be limited to current areas of specialist experience or interest.
However, the programs would be modular in structure and allow those with specialist requirements to
undertake more intensive training in those areas through the use of additional workshop units. For
example, additional workshops could be provided in public financial management and in HRM to assist
with more training in these areas. In addition, there would be scope for some more specialized workshops
if other specific gaps in capabilities were identified.
For the higher-level AEP, there are numerous good examples of executive development seminars from
international sources that could be taken into account and modified to accord with Cambodian
requirements.
-86-



Selection Criteria
It will be important that participants in these programs are selected transparently, against stated criteria,
linked with reform objectives, agency requirements and individual personal qualities.
For AEP, the following is suggested-
This group is charged with strategic guidance and providing leadership to achieve results. All officials in
this group should participate over the period of the Program and the only issue in selection would be in
terms of priorities for attendance at particular seminars. Nominations should relate to relevance of the
seminar topic, personal involvement and agency needs and availability at the given time.
For MDP, the following is suggested-
Selection for participation should be based on clear linkages with personal involvement in management
issues concerned with practical reforn activities, needs to improve personal management and efficiency
skills (see below), and endorsement of suitability and availability at the agency executive level.
Particular areas of relevant training needs in this context which candidates may identify with on a
personal basis are-
* involvement in planning and supervising resource usage, including Budget preparation; carriage
of implementation activities; setting work objectives and monitoring progress; organizing
timetables and programs; balancing conflicting demands in the workplace; managing staff and
workplace issues; resolving conflict in the workplace; organizing team activities; communicating
with staff; representation and reporting responsibilities; monitoring and evaluation activities.
Participants in PMG activities should be given a high priority for participation in MDP.
For PDP, the following is suggested-
Selection should be based on clear linkages with policy development needs at the agency and personal
levels, as this is a primary focus of this program. A sound basis of personal participation in structured
studies, and professional experience in Government service, will be desirable, along with personal
qualities indicating scope for potential advancement in the Cambodian Civil Service.
It is expected that participants in this program will be younger professionals with some current experience
of employment in government. Graduates of recent ERA and EFI programs and graduates of overseas
graduate schools (e.g. Master's program) may more readily meet these criteria and should be given
preference ahead of other applicants without this established personal background.
Mentoring
For the PDP (about 100), it is proposed there would be a small mentor group at Secretary General/Deputy
Secretary General level (e.g. one each from policy coordination ministries) to provide guidance and
support to participants as necessary.
-87-



Qualifications
It would be desirable to provide an officially recognized Certificate for the coursework programs. This
should be explored by Cambodian authorities as the Project proceeds.
Provincial program delivery
The programs will be delivered in Phnom Penh and the provinces.. However, some experience may be
gained by training workshops in Phnom Penh, attended by invited groups of provincial officials. These
workshops would be for a short period, say 2-3 days. Aspects of financial and Budget management,
procurement, and deconcentration have been identified as potentially of high priority in this regard.
Partnership arrangements
The nature of the new programs and the teaching methods proposed under the Project will present
important new challenges. External advisory services will be necessary for curriculum development,
initial delivery of some courses and the identification and development of local trainers. A partnership
model would have value and more than one partner could be involved, because a diversity of expertise is
likely to be needed. Internationally reputable civil service training institutions and/or regional universities
will be identified as partners of the RSA and EFI. This could be seen as a "setting-up" phase and might
have to extend for much of the first year of the training programs, with less intensive support after that.
Trainers
It will probably be necessary to use a range of international providers in the first year. However, the
concept is to "train the trainers" and use local trainers and consultants.
Flexibility and Adjustment
Programs should not be regarded as defined rigidly. There should be an initial design and it should be
kept under evaluation. Content and coverage may need to be modified as reform issues arise. The
balance between topics needs to be kept under notice, and adjusted as necessary. The supplementary
workshops provide a means of raising and testing new topics.
Table Al1.l. Relative mapping of streams and programs
Streams and Programs  Executives  Management     Professionals  Institutional
development
Leadership and          KTA           KTA             STA
management                               _       ___
Policy development      STA           STA             KTA
Financial management    STA           KTA            KTA         KTA (MEF/EFI)
fiRM                    STA           KTA            KTA           KTA (CAR)
Governance and public   KTA           STA             STA
administration
Poverty reduction       KTA           STA             STA
Note: KTA: Key Target Area; STA: Secondary Target Area
-88-



Table Al 1.2. Indicative list of topics identified by training needs assessment for subsequent
inclusion in curriculum development
Topic                  AEP               MDP                   PDP
1(a). Leadership &
Management foundations
Context of reform (NPAR,
CAR, PAP, PSRP etc)                f                  /
Leadership
Change management                  f                  f 
Strategic planning                 /                                       /
Results based management            /                 /
Risk management                    f
1(b). Management practices
and techniques
General management           ___________                                   f 
Supervisory skills              f_f
Project management                 /                  f                    /
Organisational arrangements
and structures                     f                  /                    /
Role of PMGs                       f                  f                    f
Work arrangements and
teamwork                                              /                    /
Team management                    f                  /                    /
Records management
Monitoring and reporting (MIS)     VI                                     V/
2. Policy Development and
implementation
Policy analysis                                                            /
Policy formulation                                       _/
Policy approval processes
Policy implementation              1'                 /                    f
Monitoring and evaluation '
3. Public financial
-management.
Financial management               f
Budget management issues           f_                 f_f
Deconcentration and
decentralization                   V                   / I
Auditing                            I/                                     /
Procurement                                           /                    /
4. Human resource
management
HRM planning                       f                  f
HRMIS                              VI                 7           _
-89-



Topic                  AEP                MDP                  PDP
Managing staff               _               _                              1
HRD                                 /         _                                    X
Performance management             7                  /
Gender                             VI/                                     /
5. Governance and public
administration                                                     _-
Good governance                     /
Principles of CS administration     /                 /                    /
CS legislation and concepts                                                /
Anti-corruption and ethics   _                        /
International experience in PS
reform                       _                                             /
Case studies                                  _                            /
6. Poverty reduction
Poverty strategies           _               _                             /
Implementing poverty reduction                        /                    /
projects                     _               _
Service delivery issues
Role of PMGs in service                                                    /
delivery
Role of donor assistance            /                                      /
Working with donors          _               _
Case studies                 _    _     _
-90-



Table A11.3. Proposed relative pattern of Programs for Executives, Management and Professionals
(Indicative only)
Streams, Programs  Overall    Overall    Executives    Management (coursework)         Professionals (coursework)
and Modules         $m.                              No. of   hours                No. of    hours      %
modules                       modules
Leadership and         0.339       21         30          4        16        20          5        20       12.5
management
Policy development     0.195       12         10          2        8         10          8        32        20
Financial              0.326       20          10         5        20        25          8        32        20
management
HRM                    0.326       20          10         5        20        25          8        32        20
Governance and         0.219       14         20          2        8         10          6        24        15
public
administration                                                 _
Poverty reduction      0.211       13         20          2        8         10          5        20       12.5
Total (baseline)*      1.618       100        100         20       80       100         40       160       100
Note 1. Total amount is the baseline cost and excludes curriculum development, training for provincial officials, and program evaluation.
Note 2: Executives undertake seminars and short programs. Management and Professionals undertake
structured coursework, based on curriculum modules. Management-20 modules of 4 hours each;
Professionals-40 modules of 4 hours each.



Annex 12: GDLN Feasibility Study
1. Introduction
This report presents the outcomes of an independent review examining the feasibility of establishing and
operating a GDLN (Global Development Learning Network) center in Cambodia as part of the EPSCB
project.
In this study, cost estimates are based on the results of a World Bank Technical Mission in January 2002,
other costs determined by the appraisal mission, and data obtained from the operation of other GDLN
sites. Revenue estimates are based on interviews with donor country representatives, government
departments and national organizations, international organizations, NGOs, and incorporating the
experience of other GDLN sites.
The study concludes that if the GDLN center is established within an appropriately self-contained
administrative structure, is well managed, and enthusiastically marketed, it can be operationally
sustainable.
2. Costs
The details of the establishment costs for the GDLN and those for first five years of operation are
presented below.
Table 2.1 - Cambodia GDLN Technical Costs
Full DLC
One-Time Costs  Annual Technical Operational Costs
LOCAL NFRASTRUCTURE EQUIPMENT      $88,850              $12,000
LOCAL CONNECTIVITY EQUIPMENT      $25,400              $2,500
GLOBAL CONNECTIVITY EQUIPMENT     $95,000              S 144,000
PEDAGOGICAL TOOLS                 $232,750             S25,000
LOGISTICS                         $87,500                $0
CIVIL Works                       $157,500               $0
FURNITURE                         S35,000                $0
CONTINGENCY                       $20,000                $0
2-STAFF, 2-WEEK TRAINING          $10,000                $0
~        ____ _             1      5
Table 2.2 contains a summary of GDLN operating costs. All projections are based on the assumption that
the DLC would be ready to operate within 12 months and therefore calendar years are shown.
-92-



Table 2.2 - Cambodian DLC -5 Year Operating Costs
BEpenses:                                       2003          2004         200S        2006         2007
Recurring Bipeness
Human Resources - Administraton
Dlrector                             $           40,000       38,000      36,000        36,000      36,000
Technicsan                           $           18,000       18,000       18,000       18,000       18,000
Eduatlon Speclaist                   $           16,000       18,000      18,000        18,000      18,000
Adnin Support/Recepothn              S            4,500        4,500       4,500         4,500       4,500
Booldeepoig                          $            1,125        1,125       1,485         1,800       2,250
Support- Other                       $            1,125        1,125       2,250         2.250       4,500
SecurHy                              S            9,000        9,000       9,000         9,000       9,000
Iterpretaton (non course)            S           12,00        12,000      12,000        12.000      12,000
Total HR - Admlnlstration      S    103,750  $    99,750  $   101,235  S   101,580  $   104,250
Marketing/Development                                   _ _
Adverftsingfrom                      S     S      6,000  $     6,000  S    6,000 S       6,000  S     6.000
Travel                               S     S      9,949  S     9,949 S     9,949  $      9,949  $    9,949
Hosptalty/Pepresentation             S     S      1,500  S     1,500 $     1,500  S      1,500 S     1,500
Totas MarkeUng         S     17.449  $     17,449  S   17,449  S    17,449  S    17,449
Overhead
Rent (In                             S_                         __
Maintenance                                S      2,400  S     2,400 S     2,400  S      2,400  S    2,400
Office BEpenses - General            S     S      2,400  S     2,400  S    2,400  S      2,400  $    2,400
Telephonelmynnuniton                 S     $      1,200  S     1,200 S      1,200  $     1,200 S      1,200
Spares                               S     S       60o  $       600 S        S0   S       600 S        600
hsurance (cost unverifed)            $            9,000  5     9,000 S     9.000         9,000  S    9,000
Car/Diver                            S     S      4,800 S      4,800  S    4,800  S      4,800  S    4,800
Bectriciky                           S     S     12,000  S    12,000  S    12.000  $    12,000  S    12,000
Fuel (generator)                     S     S       600  S       600  S       600  S       600  S       600
Total Overhead         S     33,000  S    33,000  S   33,000  S     33,000  S   33,000
Equlpment Operations                                     I
Satelte-Annual                       S     S    144,000  S   144,000  S   144,000 S    144,000  S   144,000
MWVntenance - Annual                 S     $     39,501  S    39,502  S    39,503  S    39,504  $    39,505
Total Equipment Operations        S    183,501  $   183,502  S   183,503  S   183,504  S   183,605
Other Expenses
Consultants - Technki Assistance
Total HR- Consultants                        S     20,000  S    10,000  S    10,000  S    10,000  S    10,000
Content
Docurantalton Center                 S     S     20,000  S     5,Wo S      5,000  $      5,000 S      5,000
Onine Subscriptbns                   S     $      5,000  $     5,000  S    5,000  S      5,000  S     5,000
Total Content         S    25,000  S     10,000 S    10,000  $     10,000  $   10,000
Cost Summary
Total Admin and Overhead                          154,199      150,199      151,684      151,999      154,699
Total Connectivity                                183,501      183,502      183,503      183,504      183,505
Total Other Bkpenses                               45,000       20,000      20,000        20,000       20,000
Contingency                           3%           11,481       10,611       10,656       10,665       10,748
Total Cost                                        394,181      364,312      365,843      366.168      368,950
provisIon for Inflatlon               2%            7,884       14,718      22,392        30,184       38,401
Total Cost wih Inflation                         40Z065       379,030      388,235      396,352      407,351
* Director Salary in 2003 includes 3 months prior to opening to market the center
-93-



8I 8  '1H '                           IiigS_____ X 
Q     (I  0-. 
~~~ ~~~0S
0000.. 00000w 00w0  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
(DCDc) :
M , I c .- C
0= 
E.y
:'  0
0  CD 0
. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .               R.D. 
.- .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   c S  C D   g . U
0 0~~0 
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
di   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Usage of the GDLN center
EPSCB project usage: The EPSCB project will contribute between $40,000 and $80,000 per annum to the
Center's recurrent costs. This is based on the fact that approximately 5-10% of the overall training
program would be delivered through GDLN.
IDA-supported Higher Education Staff Upgrading project: Consultants advising IDA on the proposed
Higher Education Staff Upgrading project believe that a GDLN facility would provide a useful means of
delivering high degree supervision and intense coursework in specialist disciplines.
Donor countries:
Australia, through its Virtual Colombo Plan initiative administered by AusAID, would consider
contributing between $100,000 and $150,000 to support the center from mid-2003 onwards. It would also
be willing to provide volunteers to provide management and technical assistance to the center.
Canada would most likely provide support through projects such as the Cambodia Canada Legislative
Support Project (CCLSP), for regional meetings and for enabling mentoring of Cambodian
parliamentarians by parliamentarians in Canada.
Korea could train the Cambodian civil service, which it currently supports by sending some people to
Korea, through the GDLN center currently being established in Seoul at the Korean Development
Institute.
Singapore might be willing to provide civil service training courses from its own GDLN center located in
the Singapore Civil Service College.
France would consider using the GDLN center to provide civil service training courses offered from the
GDLN center in Paris as well as offering the services of an engineer for the center.
The United States of America, through USAID, would be willing to consider supporting NGOs to use
the GDLN center for training and for global dialogues particularly in areas such as health, landmines and
women's and children's rights.
Cambodian government departments and organizations: Government departments are potential users of
the GDLN center, particularly in matters concerned with international negotiations and trade where use of
videoconference facilities can be used as a partial substitute for expensive travel. A topical issue in this
regard is Cambodia's negotiations with the WTO. Cambodian organizations such as the Cambodian
Development Research Institute and the University of Phnom Penh also would use the GDLN facilities
for training, networking meetings with partner organizations, and for virtual conferences.
International organizations: International non-government organizations (NGOs e.g. WHO, UNICEF,
UNESCO, UNHCR, etc.) could use the center for videoconference meetings and training.
Non-governmental organizations: The approximately 390 local non-government organizations (NGOs)
operating in Cambodia could use the center for the specialized training they are often sponsored to offer.
Private sector support: Financial institutions, agricultural firms, telecommunications companies and
petroleum companies are all possible sponsors for GDLN courses.
-95-



4. Overall feasibility
Table 4.1 provides a convenient summary of cost/revenue for possible operations of the proposed GDLN
center over a five-year period.
Table 4.1 - DLC Revenue-Costs for DLC
Summary of Revenues and Costs               2003        2004        2005        2006        2007
Revenues
Total VC Room                                195,000     245,000    238,000     268,000     278,000
Total MM Room                                 23,150      60,850     68,350      68,350      68,350
Total Sponseship/Support                      50,000      50,000     50,000      50,00       w0,000
Prov,sion for Inflation'            0         7,613       21,087     32,153      47,285      61,599
Total Revenue                                275,763     376,937    388,503     433,635     457,949
Coats
Total Adntn and Overhead                     154,199      150,199    151,684     151,999     154,699
Total ODnnectrity                            183,501      183,502    183,503     183,504     183,505
Total Other Expenses                          45,000       20,000     20,000      20,000      20,000
Contingency                        3%         11,481      10,611      10,858      10,665      10,746
Provision for Inflation            2%          7,884       14,718     22,392      30,184      38,401
Total Cost                                    402,065     379,030    388,235     396,352     407,351
Operating Revenue-Cost                      (126,302)     (2,094)       268      37,283      50,599
Cumulatve Revenue-Cost                      (126,302)   (128,396)  (128,128)     (90,844)    (40,246)
* true local inflation is set at 3% however certain costs such as connectivity are not subject to inflation due to long
term contracts
Making this scenario a reality would be highly dependent on appropriate governance and management
structures for the center.
5.      Full Funding Scenario
The full funding scenario for four years operation is shown below. It includes the capital costs of start-up
as well as the full cost of operation for three years. It shows a total cost over the period of $1,889,314.
Table 5.1 - Total 4-Year Cost for the DLC
Full DLC                              per           2003          2004           2005
Operation    _ _  _ _  _    _ _  _ _  _    _  _ _  _ _
Cost '
Equipment                    529,500
'Other Startup               222,500
Operations                                 394,181        364,312        365,843
Total Cost                            752,000       402,065        379,030        388,235
Cumulative Cost                       752,000     1,154,065      1,533,095       1,921,330
-96-



6. Average Cost of Operation Depends on Utilization Rate
The average daily cost of operation of the facility depends on how many days per year it is available and
how many of those days it is used. Most DLCs operate on the assumption of 48 weeks per year (or 240
days). This does not preclude a DLC from operating more days such as weekends, evenings, etc.
The following chart shows the average operating cost of the DLC configuration by year based on varying
utilization rates.
Table 6.1. Daily Operating Cost - DLC
..  ..       *   
Available Days per Year               240      240      240       240      240
Cost per day at Varying Utilization  Rate
20%      8,212     7,590    7,622    7,629    7,686
40%      4,106     3,795    3,811    3,814    3,843
50%      3,285     3,036    3,049    3,051    3,075
60%      2,737     2,530   2,541     2,543    2,562
80%      2,053     1,897    1,905    1,907    1,922
100%      1,642    1,5i8    i,524    1,526    1,537
7. Roadmap to Success - Next Steps
The Development of a Comprehensive Business Plan: the business plan is the blueprint for effective DLC
development and operation. Within the context of the plan, the following subcomponents should be
included: Strategic Plan, Operational Plan, Marketing Plan, Financial Plan, Human Resource Plan.
The Establishment of an Advisory Board: successful GDLN distance learning centers have established
advisory boards to assist and guide the DLC. An advisory board should consist of a good cross section of
skills and stakeholders including representatives from the public sector, private sector, NGOs and the
academic sector.
The Development of a Governance/Accountability Structure: the DLC should operate with a clear
governance structure. This should include to whom the Director reports, where the DLC fits into the
government infrastructure, and how it relates to the World Bank and other DLCs. With regard to
accountability, the DLC should establish how revenues are to be dealt with and who has the ultimate
financial control of the operation. Overall decision-making policies also need to be established (i.e. who
has ultimate responsibility for a specific type of decision). It should also include how the DLC interacts
with other institutions, such as content partners.
DLC Evaluation: The DLC needs to set an overall evaluation policy whereby it can establish its success
related to the business plan and a mechanism to adjust the course of the DLC should conditions change.
-97-









IMAGING
Report No.          23842  KH
Type:     PAD



