                                                Document of
                                            The World Bank




                                                                              Report No: ICR0000604




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IDA-3678 KH)

                                                    ON A

                                                  CREDIT


                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.4 MILLION
                                 (US$ 5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                                  FOR AN

      ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                             January 10, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit (PREM)
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective January 10, 2008)

                             Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel (R)
                             1.00 Cambodian Riel = US$ 0.00025
                                   US$ 1.00 = 4,000 riels

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 ­ December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AEP            Advanced Executive Program
AusAID         Australian Aid
CAR            Council for Administrative Reform
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CSO            Civil Society Organization
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
EFI            Economic and Finance Institute (of the Ministry of Economy and Finance)
EFPPMU         Economic and Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit
EPSCB          Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
HRDU           Human Resource Development Unit
HRMIS          Human Resource Management Information System
IDA            International Development Association
IDF            International Development Fund
IT             Information Technology
GDLN           Global Development Learning Network
GTZ            German Development Cooperation
LSU            Logistic Support Unit
MDP            Management Development Program
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PDP            Professional Development Program
PDO            Project Development Objective
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
RSA            Royal School of Administration
STC            Short Term Consultant
TCO            Training Coordination Office
TTL            Task Team Leader
Regional Vice President:                      James W. Adams, EAPVP
Country Director:                             Ian C. Porter, EACTF
Sector Director:                              Vikram Nehru, EASPR
Acting Country Manager:                       Stephane Guimbert, EASPR
Lead Economist:                               Mathew A. Verghis, EASPR
Project Task Team Leader:                     Huot Chea, EASPR
ICR Team Leader:                              Huot Chea, EASPR / Keir Samuel Delaney (STC)

                                             CAMBODIA

                  Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building Project


                     Implementation Completion and Results Report


                                                Contents




                                                                                                              Page No.
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 22
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 24
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 26
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Economic and Public
Country:                Cambodia               Project Name:          Sector Capacity
                                                                      Building Project
Project ID:             P071247                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-36780
ICR Date:               06/18/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                      CAMBODIA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.4M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 1.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
The Council for Administration Reform
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Australian Agency for International Develoopment (AusAID)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/21/2001     Effectiveness:        02/10/2003        02/10/2003
Appraisal:             04/01/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/25/2002     Mid-term Review:      07/31/2007
                                      Closing:              06/30/2006        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                    Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              50                 96
Sub-national government administration                         50                  4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                       Primary          Primary
Other public sector governance                                Primary          Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                              Primary          Secondary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Ian C. Porter                    Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:           Barbara Nunberg                  Homi Kharas
Project Team Leader:      Huot Chea                        Su Yong Song
ICR Team Leader:          Huot Chea
ICR Primary Author:       Keir Samuel Delaney



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project's development objective is to reduce poverty by enhancing the capability of
the Cambodian public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively.            Helping
Cambodia on this agenda will involve a coordinated effort to shift civil service incentives
to a sustainable basis and to create systems of accountable and transparent governance.




                                             ii

  This project begins this process. It will provide a jump-start to capacity building
through immediate bridge support for skill enhancement in key reform areas. The project
will build capacity among a targeted cadre of government officials to carry out urgent and
essential development tasks, while the basis for longer-term institutional development is
being established. A hallmark of the project is to introduce innovative approaches to
extend the reach of capacity building by leveraging new technologies, such as a Global
Development Learning Network (GDLN) facility.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
                                               approval           Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values          Target Years
               1 # By the end of project life period, 300 public officials will be trained under
Indicator 1 :  AEP, 400 under MDP and 100 under PDP. Meanwhile 600 officials are also
               expected to be trained under workshops.
                                          300 public
                                          officials trained
                                          under AEP, 400
                                          trained under
                                          MDP and 100
Value                                     trained under PDP.
quantitative or                           Meanwhile 600
Qualitative)                              officials are also
                                          trained under
                                          workshops. 80%
                                          of participants
                                          passed exams with
                                          certificates.
Date achieved                             12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               2 # GDLN center built and made fully operational. By end of project, 20% of
Indicator 2 :  AEP training hours done through DLC, 5% of MDP training hours through DLC
               and 10% of PDP training hours through DLC.
                                          Using the GDLN
                                          to deliver 20% of

Value                                     AEP training

quantitative or                           hours by DLC, 5%

Qualitative)                              of MDP training
                                          hours by DLC and
                                          10% of PDP
                                          training hours by


                                               iii

                                          DLC.
Date achieved                             12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :  1 # 95 public officials were trained under MDP and 150 public officials were
               trained under PDP (partly met).
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  2 # Pilot DLC is used for training AEP, MDP, PDP Programs (not met)
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP              Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     11/18/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/19/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.04
  3     12/29/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.15
  4     06/30/2004         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.23
  5     12/28/2004         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.43
  6     03/31/2005         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.47
  7     06/28/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.65
  8     06/29/2006          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               1.16
  9     03/13/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.40
  10    04/14/2007         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    1.40




                                                iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 In the late 1990s and early 2000s, with stability returned to Cambodia after
decades of conflict and isolation, the attention of government and donors turned to the
country's weakened institutions of governance. The destruction of Cambodia's education
system and its educated elite in the 1970s left the human capital base of the civil service
depleted and unable to fulfill its crucial role in the alleviation of Cambodia's deep and
pervasive poverty. The Bank's 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS ­ Report No.
20077-KH of February 2000) for Cambodia noted the specific challenges: an acute
shortage of technical and managerial skills, overstaffing, sharply falling real wages, a
prevalence of absenteeism and declining productivity, among others. The CAS also
observed that a great deal of the technical and administrative work was being done by
expatriates or local staff receiving salary supplements.

1.1.2 In this context, the CAS identified capacity building as a priority for improving
the depleted human capital base, but with less of a focus on skills substitution and more
on knowledge transfer, and with a stronger emphasis on training. This approach
ultimately informed the design of the Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building
Project (EPSCB). The project was one in a suite of International Development
Association (IDA)-funded projects which would support a `second generation' of planned
government reforms to the public sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1 The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to reduce poverty by enhancing
the capability of the Cambodian public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively.
The project aimed to build capacity among a targeted cadre of government officials to
carry out urgent and essential development tasks, while the basis for longer-term
institutional development was being established. A hallmark of the project was to be its
use of innovative approaches to extend the reach of capacity building by leveraging new
technologies, such as a Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) facility.

1.2.2 The key outcome/impact indicators were:

        1. Retention of trained public officials in civil service ­ the management
        development program (MDP) and the professional development program (PDP).
        (a) The number of trained officials retained in civil service after 1 year of training
            as percentage of total number of trained officials.

        2. Extent to which acquired skills are used in the workplace (MDP, PDP and
        training for provincial officials).
        (b) The number of trained officials who use acquired skills in the workplace as
            percentage of total number of trained officials.



                                               1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 There was no revision to the PDO or key indicators during the project. However,
significant project adjustments were agreed to in 2005 to adapt the project to meet needs
and Cambodia reality. In particular, the Training and GDLN Components were adjusted.
The Bank and the Borrower at that time reaffirmed their commitment to the original PDO,
stating that it remained highly relevant.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The ultimate beneficiaries of the project (as stated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) were to be the Cambodian people, who would benefit from improved
public services. Two target groups were also identified as beneficiaries: (i) those public
servants trained under the project, as well as staff of the training institutions supported by
the project; and (ii) those who work with public servants trained under the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

1.5.1 The project originally consisted of four components as summarized below.

1.        The Project Management Component (US$0.76 million) was designed to
          strengthen the capacity of the Training Coordination Office (TCO) within the
          Council for Administrative Reform (CAR) through the provision of technical
          assistance, related equipment and furniture. It also provided for the
          strengthening of CAR's Logistics Support Unit (LSU) through (a) the provision
          of training, technical assistance, and related office equipment; and (b) the
          employment of independent auditors to conduct audits of the project.

2.        The Training Program Development and Implementation Component
          (US$2.25 million) dealt with the project's core activity: the provision of
          training. It included the development of curricula for the training program for
          CAR. Training was to take the form of: (a) an Advanced Executive Program
          (AEP) for selected high-level government officials to improve leadership and
          management skills; (b) a Management Development Program (MDP) for
          selected government officials with management responsibilities to develop their
          management skills; and (c) a Professional Development Program (PDP) for
          selected professionals from CAR and line ministries to develop and upgrade
          their policy analysis and formulation skills.

3.        The Institutional Development Component (US$0.82 million) was designed
          to (a) provide technical assistance, training and equipment to the Human
          Resources Development Unit (HRDU) of CAR for planning and monitoring
          human resources development activities, including the Human Resource
          Management Information System (HRMIS); (b) strengthen the Economic and
          Financial Policy Planning and Monitoring Unit (EFPPMU) of the Ministry of
          Economy and Finance (EFI) through technical assistance and staff training in


                                              2

          budget management; (c) renovate and equip the TCO and two classrooms at the
          Royal School of Administration (RSA) for the training programs; and (d)
          strengthen the capacity of RSA and EFI through (i) training local trainers; (ii)
          developing training material in Khmer, and (iii) providing library books and
          reference materials and installation of related IT systems.

4.        The Global Development Learning Network Component (US$1.92 million)
          was designed to establish a Distance Learning Center at the RSA and provide
          technical assistance and staff training to facilitate its operation.

Out of the project cost, the Bank funded US$5.5 million while the remaining gap
(US$0.25 million) was filled by the Royal Government of Cambodia (the counterpart).

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The project was rated as unsatisfactory by the Bank in June 2004. The package of
project adjustments was signed by the Bank and CAR in June 2005 to return the project
to satisfactory status. At the same time, both parties formally agreed that the original
PDO remained highly relevant. The package did not require Board approval.

1.6.2 The 2005 package of adjustments redesigned a number of project sub-components,
particularly within Component 2 (the training component). Revisions to Component 2
were intended to ensure training was more responsive to the needs of line ministries
undergoing reform programs. The Training Coordination Office (TCO) within CAR
Secretariat would establish a `training fund' to collate donor funds and focus activity in
this area. To effect these changes, the sub-components of three project main components
were redesigned in various ways mainly reallocation of financing to reinforce the
component relating to trainings. The Bank and CAR agreed to a realignment of the
budget and a re-distribution of existing funds.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 The project was extended once by approval of the Bank Management (country
director on April 20, 2006), extending the original closing date from June 30, 2006 to the
new closing date on December 31, 2007 in order to give the adjustments time to be
implemented and in light of the hitherto low level of disbursement. Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement was simultaneously amended so that all project
categories would be financed entirely (100%) from IDA finances, removing the existing
provision of 10% payment for civil works and 5% payment for consultancy services from
counterpart funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Quality at Entry Assessment panel assessed the project and rated satisfactory
overall but indicated some associated high risks given many political and other


                                              3

uncertainties during the time (QAG Assessment Report dated July 3, 2002). In contrast,
the ICR team finds the project's quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory as being
elaborated in paragraphs 2.1.2, 2.1.7, 2.1.8 and 5.1.1 below but found that the project was
developed with strong fundamental training needs assessment carried out in November
2001 and February 2002 (PAD p. 13) and also as part of the broad effort under the 2000
CAS to help build the foundation of skills and capacity of Cambodian civil services.

2.1.2 In preparing the project, the Bank process appeared to not have sought sufficient
collaboration and coordination among other stakeholders. The Bank's PAD also
underscored concerns of implementing this type of project given its patchy record of
success in other countries and also stressing concerns of being criticized for not
adequately transferring skills or expertise to the counterparts by expatriate experts when
project ended. Attention was also paid to evidence from previous Bank projects
suggesting approaches involving overseas scholarships, secondments and study tours
were of limited effectiveness. Locally, lessons were drawn from earlier IDA assistance
delivered through the Technical Assistance Project (US$17 million, effective in March
1995, closed December 2001), which training was one of the major components (PAD p.
31). In the case of that project, problems were found to have included an uncertain
degree of skills transfer from foreign consultants, insufficient emphasis on training of
counterparts, and insufficient monitoring and evaluation of training (PAD p. 32).

2.1.3 The PAD for the EPSCB Project was explicit in its intention to learn from and
avoid outmoded assistance methods, and for this it is to be commended. The project was
to be distinguished from forerunners by an emphasis on in situ behavioral and technical
training (increasingly by local trainers) and knowledge transfer, along with systematic,
on-the-job training for government staff. Importantly, the project would focus `major
attention on impact and results' through a range of monitoring and evaluation measures
and methods. A flagship component, the GDLN Center, would provide innovative and
cost-effective development learning opportunities accessible to public institutions, NGOs,
CSOs and the private sector. The government voiced strong support of the GDLN
concept as an important vehicle to support the training and development agenda of the
country (PAD p. 20)

2.1.4 The project was aligned with the 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal to
build the foundations for sustainable development and poverty reduction. The project
objectives matched key areas of CAS focus: (a) supporting good governance with public
sector reform including civil service restructuring; (b) greater access by the poor to basic
social services and economic opportunities; and (c) rebuilding human capital by investing
in skills development that will contribute to institutional capacity and good governance.
The project was also timely in that it would complement and reinforce the government's
agenda: it was to be a `necessary bridge' between a first wave of administrative reforms
and an expected second wave of larger, more comprehensive reforms to the Cambodian
public sector.

2.1.5 Documents from the preparatory stage report strong government commitment to
the reform agenda, and more specifically, the EPSCB Project. However, the government



                                              4

commitment was interpreted as a commitment to implement a specific reform agenda as
advocated by Bank staff at the time. In a number of cases, the government sought
alternative grant funds for activities which, had procurement proceeded more smoothly or
agreement been reached, could have been funded under the project.

2.1.6 The PAD assessed the project as having a `substantial' overall risk rating. The
main risks proved well perceived (although many would have been tested only had the
project progressed far further than it did). The risk that government would not pursue
fundamental reform on civil service pay and employment was of most concern to the
Bank as without this, civil service capacity building was thought unlikely to succeed.
The risk appears to have materialized: government made modest progress (including an
agreement between CAR and MEF on the Priority Mission Group/Merit Based Pay
Initiative) but a promised series of International Development Fund (IDF) financed civil
service reform studies, which the Bank saw as the analytical basis for sectoral reform,
was first delayed and then did not meet the Bank's expectations.

2.1.7 The risk that `the number of donors involved in this field would lead to [a]
confused or uncoordinated approach' (rated modest) quickly materialized. A 2004 study
estimated that over US$30 million was being spent annually on training opportunities in
Cambodia (EPSCB-II Project Design, letter and attached docs. dated April 21, 2005).
The EPSCB Project was one provider in the field. The conclusion of the ICR team is that
more comprehensive preparatory work may have assessed donor activity in the field and
the supply-side of the training market with greater accuracy. The eventual redesign of
the project correctly attempted to focus CAR's efforts towards training coordination and
building an overall framework for training. A related criticism expressed of the original
design was that it took a `broad brush' or sectoral approach to training; that is, the
training focused on developing generic civil service skills rather than being finely
targeted at specific job requirements, reform-related tasks and Ministries. In retrospect,
this may well have been a stronger theoretical approach to achieving the project's
objectives; whether it would have experienced a less troubled implementation phase is an
open question.

2.1.8 The risks associated with the (ultimately unsuccessful) GDLN component were
rated high at time of appraisal. A significant shortcoming of the project design was its
reliance on a feasibility study which was subsequently found to be inadequate. The PAD
also specified the site of the proposed GDLN Center (a separate building in the RSA
compound) but the government sought to change this very soon after effectiveness.
Debate over these two points (feasibility and GDLN location) occupied considerable
project time and contributed substantially to delays in implementation. Preparatory work
for such an important project component should have included a far greater level of
business analysis. Had this occurred, a more conservative implementation schedule
would have resulted (as it did in the 2005 package of adjustments).

2.2 Implementation




                                              5

2.2.1 At the time of the ICR mission the project had disbursed around 33% of project
budget (US$1.8 million out of US$5.5 million ­ as of December, 2007) indicating a very
slow performance over its life period.

2.2.2 Several reasons can be found for the slow and troubled implementation phase.
Damaging to project management (and hence implementation) was the degree of staff
turnover at management and project team level (at the Bank and the implementing
agency). Three World Bank Task Team Leaders (TTLs) and three CAR Project
Coordinators oversaw the project at different stages of its lifespan. There were additional
delays in replacing key staff. This turbulence was undoubtedly disruptive and eroded
counterpart engagement. Although it was a factor largely beyond either party's control,
such an environment makes it more difficult to build the working relationships which
would have helped the project steer through the problems it experienced.

2.2.3 Difficulties and delays with procurement and disbursement frustrated project staff
and supervisors and stalled implementation. These were anticipated to some degree: a
Bank appraisal mission rated CAR's capacity to implement procurement as weak, based
on its limited experience with previous IDA financed projects. The ICR team confirmed
this as an accurate assessment in discussions with CAR. The Bank's mitigation measures,
including training staff in Bank guidelines and appointing an international procurement
advisor, were prudent, however CAR is ambivalent about the level of knowledge transfer
achieved. CAR staff continued to struggle to meet the Bank's procurement and
replenishment procedures. In a properly functioning project environment such problems
could have been cooperatively and steadily resolved.

2.2.4 The project design contained adequate flexibility to allow the project to evolve
during implementation but this was not able to be exploited. A draft review completed as
part of the redesign process noted that `indicative' project content described in the PAD
had become `solidified' in the instruments designed to ensure proper implementation: the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM); the project's costs table and the resulting
accounting system. Because they could not be anticipated in advance, straightforward
expenditures require prior approval, a time consuming exercise both for project and
supervisory staff.

2.2.5 The adjustment of project components in 2005 and the extension of the project to
the end of 2007 were attempts to clear the `bottlenecks' that had developed. The training
component was repositioned within a context of increasing donor interest in governance
and capacity development. Both parties recommitted themselves to all components of the
project. To their credit, CAR and Bank staff worked hard to reach agreement on key
points of contention (such as the location of the pilot GDLN Center) and negotiate a
sound package of project adjustments. With the benefit of hindsight, the timeliness of the
response can be questioned. The adjustment may have had more success if it had taken
place much earlier when problems were apparent and counterpart engagement evidently
stronger. It is difficult now to establish whether this was a realistic option at the time; the
turnover in key project staff may have precluded it. An alternative option, decision to
close the project without further extension by the Bank was also countenanced in



                                              6

response to the lack of progress with key project components and the lack of parallel
progress. In any event, few additional gains were made on either front following the re-
adjustment.

2.2.6 Disagreements between the Bank and CAR over implementation of the GDLN
component were never adequately settled. The first phase of an AusAID business plan
cast doubts on the feasibility study contained within the PAD, finding the revenue
expectations unrealistically high and the proposed reliance on donor contributions far too
low. According to the AusAID analysis, the GDLN Center would need to operate on a
`public good' model financed in large part by government and/or the donor community.
Concerns were later reinforced with the release of a June 2004 Bank study of GDLN
centers worldwide, showing utilization rates were low and achieving financial viability
from commercial sources was difficult. This was a setback for the component but some
of the studies and plans subsequently completed to assess feasibility and recommend
solutions can be considered a prudent risk management response by CAR and should
have resulted in progress after the redesign. The government decided to build a pilot
phase involving the GDLN conference room on top of the 4 storey building of the Royal
School of Administration (RSA), to test the equipment and the operational modalities.
The Bank ISG mission team visited the site in December 2006 and suggested to redesign
some aspects of the VC conference room to comply with the GDLN standards. The
government agreed to the ISG suggestions but later decided to discontinue the GDLN
installation activities on account that it would not be able to sustain the operation costs
after the project closure scheduled on December 31, 2007. The DLC room was being
used by RSA for its ordinary training facilities at the time of ICR preparation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The quality of the M&E design was not fully tested during implementation due to
the lack of outputs. M&E appears to have been designed with an eye to two slightly
contradictory imperatives. On the one hand, the PAD explicitly intended to differentiate
this project from predecessors by `focusing major attention on impact and results'. The
risk rating attached to the project (substantial) also justified such a focus. On the other
hand, the PAD noted that it was difficult to define performance indicators to clearly link
training activities (outputs) with subsequently improved workplace performance
(outcomes or results), because `many factors are at play in the workforce'. In the end,
two measurable outcome indicators and a number of input and output indicators were
designed and these were judged sufficient to show progress towards outcomes, rather
than outcomes themselves. M&E as designed was within CAR's capacity to implement
and, as far as it is possible to discern, appropriate for the original project components.
The PIM allowed for the revision of the performance indicators when the specifics of the
project components had been developed; this did not take place.

2.3.2 Some aspects of M&E implementation and utilization are difficult to assess. A
number of the monitorable indicators were for planned outputs which were either not
initiated (such as those in Component 4 and the AEP training under Component 2),
became redundant (such as those relating to the EFPPMU, which was abolished) or were
only partially completed. Data for some aspects of Component 2 outputs were provided


                                               7

during the project and their quality is not in question. In addition, an evaluation
conducted by SAGRIC International of the first and only training package provided
useful information and recommendations which would have considerably enhanced
future training programs, had they occurred. Other aspects of M&E implementation are
clearly unsatisfactory. The Project Advisory Board ­ a condition of credit and a risk
mitigation strategy ­ did not meet. Reporting by CAR (particularly the provision of
progress reports describing completed and intended project activities) was infrequent,
even after the June 2005 revision of project sub-components to get the project back on
track. None of the detailed quarterly progress notes called for in the new agreement were
provided to the Bank (although adequate financial monitoring reports were done).
Additionally, no formal mid-term review of the project was completed (instead the
project adjustments were made in 2005), and, while some thoughtful forward-looking
reports were prepared to facilitate the package of project adjustments, no methodical
assessment of the project's performance against baseline indicators or project objectives
was made at mid-term (because there was very little progress by the mid term). These
absences have made the current evaluation more difficult to complete.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 No safeguard or fiduciary issues arose during the operation. The project was
rated as a category C.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 No next phase or follow-up operations are planned after project closure. The
government's intentions for the GDLN concept remain unclear. The conference room
prepared for the pilot GDLN on the roof of the RSA was being used as an additional
training facility at the time of ICR preparation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The project development objective, "to reduce poverty by enhancing the
capability of the Cambodian public sector to perform critical tasks more effectively", has
retained some relevance to the Bank's current development priorities as set out in the
2005 CAS, although more focus was put on private sector development, natural resource
management, public financial management, decentralization and deconcentration, the
National Strategic Development Plan, and attaining the Cambodia Millennium
Development Goals. There was a shift in the Bank's approach after the CAS 2005 to
working with committed ministries/counterparts rather than attempting whole of
government reforms. Therefore the Bank has still been working toward public sector
reform but using a bottom up approach. In the meantime, government policy had also
changed to not borrow or use credit ODA for capacity building and Information and
Communication Technology (ICT).




                                               8

3.1.2 As noted above, the original project design was relevant to goals and priorities in
place at appraisal and effectiveness. The Bank was responsive to difficulties during
implementation and redesigned the project to meet changed circumstances. The redesign
did not set a new development objective or alter the associated outcome objectives as
these were considered `highly relevant'. Aspects of the project design, especially training
and the role of CAR, retain some relevance in the current environment and relate to the
ongoing reform process for the civil service, however overall the ICR team considers the
project to have only moderate relevance to prevailing priorities and circumstances.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 Achievement of the PDO is rated unsatisfactory, based mainly on the very low
number of significant outputs from the project. However, the PDO is broad in nature and
in this case the ICR guidelines call for further assessment of achievement against key
associated outcome objectives (as set out in the PAD).

3.2.2 Of most relevance are the associated outcome objectives 1 and 2, which related to
the expansion of public sector skills (managerial and technical) and knowledge, and the
application of expanded skills and knowledge, by targeted Cambodian civil servants to
improve public sector programs and support the main civil service reform initiatives.
Some evidence for expanded skills and knowledge can be found. First, all training
participants were successful in completing the courses. Second, the SAGRIC evaluation
shows that most participants reported increased skills and knowledge out of the course.
Third, a small sample of MDP participants interviewed by the ICR team in 2007 spoke
highly of the course and its effects on their work performance. Against this, a number of
other points are weighed which indicate moderately unsatisfactory performance. First,
the expected scale of the objective was not approached: far fewer civil servants were
trained than the project expected, and one major program ­ the AEP ­ was not delivered.
Second, the expectation of gender balance (30% of participants were to be women) in the
training cohorts was not achieved. Finally, application of knowledge and skills learnt in
the training was not measured by the project, although a measurement tool (career
surveys) was proscribed for this purpose in the PAD.

3.2.3 Associated outcome objective 3 related to strengthening the capacity of key
training institutions to provide quality training activities to Cambodian civil servants on
an ongoing basis, and of policy development institutions for financial management and
human resource management. It was a merit of the original project design that it sought
to build the capacity of existing training institutions (the RSA and the EFI) rather than
establish new ones. However, the SAGRIC report notes that the two institutions received
little benefit from hosting the first round training of programs. Outputs towards this
objective were limited.

3.2.4 Associated outcome objective 4 related to the development of distance learning
through a GDLN facility providing innovative, timely, and cost effective development
learning opportunities to the public sector, civil society and the private sector. Despite a
number of high-quality associated inputs (business plans, market assessments etc) and the
building of a proposed Distance Learning Center on the roof of the RSA, achievement


                                               9

was unsatisfactory. An operational GDLN did not appear likely to be established by
project closure and nor was a distance learning technology established in its place.

3.2.5 Associated outcome objectives 5 & 6 related to the substitution of expatriate
advisors in the civil service with Cambodians and the retention of trained public officials
in the civil service after completion of training program. No record data is available for
assessment but CAR informed the ICR team that two years after completing the training
programs virtually all the public officials remain in the civil service.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 The PAD provided a basic indicative cost effectiveness analysis for one
component of the project: the proposed training. The analysis compared unit costs from a
proposed Diploma Program in Public Economics under the Technical Cooperation Action
Plan (to be provided internationally) with proposed training under the EPSCB Project (to
be provided locally). EPSCB training was expected to have a cheaper unit cost per
participant hour. Comparison for ICR efficiency purposes is slightly problematic as
training costs provided to the ICR team were not broken down against the categories used
in the PAD. However, CAR reported that the unit cost of training under the EPSCB
Project was US$ 10.93/participant hour for MDP training (expected mid-term unit cost
was US$ 15/participant hour and end of project unit cost was US$ 10/participant hour)
and US$ 15.87 for the PDP training (expected mid-term unit cost was US$ 15/participant
hour and end of project unit cost was US$ 10/participant hour). These figures show that
training delivery was in line with expected costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.4.1 Despite the apparently cost effective delivery of training to 155 civil servants, the
project made only very partial progress towards most of the associated outcome
objectives and its strategy and objectives have only moderate current relevance. Hence
the overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The project sought to reduce poverty by improving public sector service delivery.
In the context of limited project impacts, no poverty or social development impacts are
discernable and while an attempt was made to achieve gender balance in the training
component it was not successful.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 As described at 3.2.3 above and 5.2.1 below, the project was moderately
unsatisfactory in its impact on the longer term capacity and institutional development of
CAR, the RSA and the EFI. CAR reports that some gains were made particularly the


                                              10

public access of information, related documents from its website and its ability to
understand IDA guidelines for future projects. It also considers that the redesign
established a stronger role for it in relation to training coordination in the civil service.
There were some advances in the development of local training capacity at the RSA and
EFI.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 No unintended outcomes or impacts are noted.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 As a core ICR, an optional stakeholder workshop was not held. The ICR team did
meet with a small random sample of civil servants who participated in the MDP training
program in 2005.

3.6.2 While the discussion was informal and the sample unrepresentative, all spoke
highly of the training and their comments reaffirm aspects of Component 2 in the original
project design. Firstly, the civil servants considered that the training would have been
more powerful if their senior managers had also participated. The original project design
anticipated this by establishing three streams, including an Advanced Executive Program
(not conducted) for decision-makers. Secondly, they spoke of disseminating the training
materials within their workplace and to civil society groups with whom they dealt ­
spillover benefits anticipated by the design. Finally, they recommended greater use of
local trainers in future and more provincial training opportunities ­ both of these were
intended project outputs which may have resulted had implementation progressed.
The civil servants also identified a known weakness with this and many other public
sector training programs: the lack of incentives. They reported that proper incentives,
such as the training being recognized as credit towards other study being undertaken,
would have improved both participation and the chance that training would lead to
improved workplace performance.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

4.1.1 Outputs in three of four components fell well below expectations and government
commitment to achieving objectives through the framework of this project currently
seems non-existent. The potential for lasting, but probably not highly durable, impacts
from the project can be found in a number of areas. First, the skills and knowledge
gained by the 155 civil servants trained under this project, as well as the value of the
training materials provided to them, may have a long `shelf life' in the workplace.
Second, CAR expressed the opinion that the project has usefully helped it to determine a
strategy for Human Resource Development and Training.




                                               11

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. Significant shortcomings existed in the appraisal of the government's
commitment to both the project and the parallel sector reforms. These shortcomings
weakened the case for the project and undermined implementation. Shortcomings were
also significant with regard to the GDLN component. Overall, the design had fewer
shortcomings: approaches were innovative, risks were assessed and mitigation
foreshadowed with moderate accuracy; flexibility was given due consideration; and
objectives were appropriately aligned with CAS objectives. Perhaps a flaw of the project
design was that it did not take into account the complexities of GDLN concept and
training implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

5.1.2 The overall quality of Bank supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory.
Supervision inputs were adequate: the Bank fielded missions at appropriate intervals to
assess progress, assist project management and resolve disagreements. Efforts were
made to meet CAR's requests during implementation and the Bank invested time and
effort considering alternative GDLN locations. Frustration was caused to CAR by
bureaucratic delays, such as the provision of `no objection' letters, and TTL turnover.
The re-adjustment met many of CAR's suggestions, although with hindsight the Bank
might have been more proactive. The quality and candor of performance reporting was
of a good standard.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank's overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Quality at
entry was moderately unsatisfactory and Bank supervision was moderately satisfactory.
Following ICR guidelines, the ICR team considers on balance that the Bank's
performance during implementation did not significantly determine the unsatisfactory.
The performance in ensuring quality at entry and the supervision did contribute but was
not the most significant factor to the unsatisfactory. There were other more significant
factors which have much more serious impacts such as tremendous efforts put in the
redesign, in the GDLN. Because implementation phase of the project has most significant
importance and also require much more efforts from both the Bank and also the
Government sides, the bank moderately satisfactory performance of supervision was




                                             12

considered by the ICR team to have greater influence on the overall Bank performance
rating which was rated to be "moderately satisfactory". The original project design flaws1
relating to the GDLN and Training Component contributed to slow disbursement. The
unsatisfactory rating for project PDO outcomes was also partly due to delays in
procurement because of late No-Objection. Even though, dialogue and support during the
last 14 months before the project closure deadline, little progress was made to implement
the GDLN component.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.2.1 The government's performance during implementation is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. Because of misgiving with the project design and because it was funded
by a credit, the CAR Secretariat was careful/prudent in engaging funds, thus slow
disbursement. This does not demonstrate limited ownership and commitment, but sound
management of a high risk venture.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.2.2 The implementing agency's performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
This rating recognizes that capacity constraints (multiple changes in project management
and in the Training Coordination Office) have hampered the project team, and that the
GDLN component required prudent management. However, implementation of all
components was progressed slowly and did not improve after the readjustment of the
project. CAR's compliance with M&E also remained unsatisfactory, despite being
emphasized as a condition of the readjustment (redesign).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

5.2.3 Overall borrower performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory reflected by
56.5% disbursement lag (figure in December, 2007) which reflects CAR Secretariat
carefulness/prudence in committing credit funds.

6. Lessons Learned




1 The GDLN was too expensive using updated technology and study funded by AusAID in 2004 showed that it could not be self
  sustainable and can only be dealt with as public goods. The Training Component relied heavily on international consortium of
  trainers with little regards to absorb the capacity.




                                                                13

6.1.1 A number of lessons became apparent over the course of the project. These
included:

    · The working relationship between the Bank and the implementing agency seems
       to have been severely strained at times and any future projects would need to be
       accompanied by strong efforts to rebuild mutual trust at leadership level.
    · The project was also destabilized by the turnover in key personnel within the
       project management unit and at the Bank.
    · The project was aligned with and supported declared government reform
       objectives at the time of appraisal. However, the appraisal team misjudged the
       government's commitment to implement the reforms advocated by the Bank. The
       Bank should have had a better understanding of the government reform agenda as
       outlined in the Strategy to Rationalize the Civil Service (2001) and the National
       Program for Administrative Reform (2000 and 2004).
    · There is now, by several accounts, a limited need to increase the supply of generic
       training opportunities for the public sector. Where training support is considered
       necessary, a better strategy for the future would be to focus efforts on the specific
       job requirements in individual ministries and reform processes. Additionally,
       there is the potential for CAR to develop its role as a coordinator of civil service
       training.
    · In the case of this project, compliance with M&E, particularly progress reporting,
       needed to be of a higher standard. An operational project advisory board and a
       better functioning reporting system may have identified emerging problems and
       led to adjustments to the project at an earlier stage.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1.1
See the summary of borrower's comments in Annex 7

(b) Co-financiers

7.2.1 There were no co-financiers or other external partners directly involved in the
implementation of this project. However there was parallel TA financing from IDF grant
to support the civil service reforms (labor markets and remuneration policy studies)
which was complementary to the project development objectives.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

7.3.1 The AusAID supported study on the implementation of GDLN component was
carried out in November 2004 and the study suggested to have three stages of
implementation i) technical feasibility study to demonstrate connectivity from the World
Bank Phnom Penh Office to CAR and determine the quality of the service ii)
implementing the pilot GDLN facility by connecting CAR through a leased line to the
World Bank VSAT satellite and prepare first online courses, iii) move to a new
permanent location and scale up fee based services, the location should be easily


                                             14

accessible to the public and integrate holistic eLearning and education processes. A
collaboration partnership with a training institution is highly recommended as indicated
by the report.




                                             15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       0.00               0.76
TRAINING PROGRAM
DEVELOPMENT AND                          0.00               2.25
IMPLEMENTATION
INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                              0.00               0.82

GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT
LEARNING NETWORK                         0.00               1.92


            Total Baseline Cost          0.00               5.75

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00               5.75
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required           0.00               5.75




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.26         0.00         .00
International Development
Association (IDA)                               5.50         0.00         .00




                                           16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

A2.1    As shown below, there were few significant outputs from the EPSCB project. For
ICR purposes, it is important to note that the 2005 review and readjustment (redesign) of
the project did not codify a new set of outputs or key performance indicators for
components, hence outputs are examined against both original output goals and, where
possible, those that can be inferred from documents supporting the redesign.

Component 1: Project Management

A2.1.1 Under this component the TCO was staffed, furnished and equipped and staff in
the LSU were trained and adequately equipped. International advisers were engaged to
assist with training development and procurement. The Training Coordinator also
worked on developing the package of project adjustments.

Component 2: Training Program Development and Implementation

A2.2.1 The training of 155 civil servants is the project's major output of substance and
potentially lasting value. There were inevitably teething problems, such as a late start, a
somewhat packed curriculum and difficulties with translation, but it was a solid
beginning and the training was well received by participants. In 2005, PDP training was
conducted for 60 civil servants for an eight week period. Forty-two participants were
from central government and 18 from provincial governments. Six participants (or 10%
of the total) were women. MDP training was conducted for 95 civil servants for a four
week period. Sixty four participants were from central government and 31 from
provincial governments. Of the total, 8 participants (8.4%) were women. All training
materials were translated into Khmer. A useful report on the training was provided by
the training provider, SAGRIC.

A2.2.2 The table below compares the actual number of training participants at project
closure with selected mid-term and end of project indicators, as set out in the PAD.

Training program         Expected number of     Expected number      Actual number of
                         people trained at      of people trained    people trained at
                         mid term               by end of project    closure of project
AEP                      100                    300                  0
MDP                      100                    400                  95
PDP                      25                     100                  60
Training for             50                     400                  0
provincial officials,
held in the provinces

A2.2.3 Very little progress was made following the re-adjustment of this component in
2005. CAR was to use project funds to establish a flexible `training fund' with a focus on



                                             17

coordinating training to meet the demands of ministries undergoing reforms. In support
of this new approach, CAR conducted a training needs assessment and incorporated this
and recommendations from the evaluation into a revised curriculum for the planned
second tranche of training. The selection process for engaging training providers failed
to meet World Bank procurement guidelines and the training activities ultimately stalled.
Other outputs not realized under this component include the AEP training and the
provision of training in the provinces. Government had made some progress in this
component but had not reached the points of expectation as indicated in the PAD and
DCA.

Component 3: Institutional Development

A2.3.1 The component's original institutional development aims and expected outputs
were relatively modest in scale and scope. Actual outputs were moderately
unsatisfactory. The main sub-component (support for CAR's Human Resources Unit,
particularly its HRMIS IT system) was well defined in the PAD, but when it came to
implementation the Bank and CAR appear to have had vastly different visions of how the
project was to assist HRMIS. To circumvent Bank concerns and remediate urgent
equipment problems, CAR secured grant funding for HRMIS from an alternative donor
and this sub-component was removed from the project in the readjustment (redesign). To
date, there has been no expansion of HRMIS to Ministries other than CAR and CAR
remains the only agency whose staff have been trained in its use. Other expected outputs
benefiting the MEF were rendered irrelevant as the EFPPMU was abolished and this sub-
component was also removed in the redesign. Finally, the training of trainers sub-
component did not progress. However, progress was made on other sub-components.
CAR staff received some training. Training rooms were built and equipped at the RSA
and training materials translated into Khmer. CAR newsletters/bulletins, interpretation
and the CAR website were up and running.

Component 4: Global Development Learning Network

A2.4.1 The fourth component involved building of GDLN Distance Learning Center, had
not been progressive. The PAD clearly indicated that GDLN DLC facilities are
constructed in the RSA and the building is detached from the main part of the school. The
government, instead, decided to build and pilot the GDLN DLC on top of the 4 story­
RSA building with two classrooms and one GDLN conference room. The center is not
suitable for the GDLN concept. The Project's key expected output, the running GDLN
Center, did not eventuate. This component foundered over initial doubts about the
Center's feasibility and stalled completely as the question over its location proved
difficult. In the June 2005 package of adjustments to the project, the Bank and the
government recommitted themselves to the GDLN concept with a reconceived
technological solution and a much more cautious development strategy. This should
have provided a solid basis to restart this component. However, there was little progress.
When the government built the training room on the roof top of the RSA and following a
site inspection in December 2006 by the Bank ISG GDLN team, the room was asked to
redesign to meet certain GDLN technical standards. No further progress has been made



                                              18

since then; the room redesign was not made, particularly after the government realized
that it wouldn't be able to sustain the operating costs after the project closure on
December 31, 2007. A basic body of supporting work was completed over the life of the
project, some of which will prove beneficial should the government choose to continue
with the GDLN concept.




                                             19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

See discussion contained within the ICR particularly Annex 2 Outputs by Component.




                                          20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Su-Yong Song (deceased)  Sr. Country Economist/ex- TTL      EASPR


Supervision/ICR
Huot Chea                Country Economist/TTL              EASPR ICR Team Leader
Robert Taliercio         Sr. Country Economist/ex-TTL       EASPR
Chinnakorn Chantra       Procurement Spec.                 EAPCO
Kannathee Danaisawat     Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO
Sokunthea Sok            Procurement Assistant             EAPCO
Peng Seng Tan            Program Assistant                  EACSF
Keir Delaney             Consultant                                 ICR author



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                     21                          96.60
  FY02                                     32                         186.50
  FY03                                       8                         33.03
  FY04                                       5                         19.34
  FY05                                                                  1.59
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:             66                         337.06
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                  0.00
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                     20                          73.25
  FY04                                       4                         15.64
  FY05                                       7                         44.11
  FY06                                       5                         16.69
  FY07                                     13                          11.00
                        Total:             49                         160.69




                                        21

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

As this was a core ICR. no beneficiary survey was carried out as part of the ICR
preparation.




                                           22

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

As this was a core ICR, no stakeholder workshop was held as part of the ICR preparation.




                                          23

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

Relations with Bank staff have improved significantly during the last few months. The
following comments are made in a spirit of renewed cooperation to ensure that the
partnership becomes productive and be based on mutual respect and accountability. The
project was deemed unsatisfactory because of slow disbursements. Because of misgivings
concerning the project design and because it was a loan, the CAR Secretariat should be
commanded for the prudence it showed in implementing the project.

General comments

EPSCB was a supply driven loan essentially to support the establishment of a GDLN, a
priority of the Bank and to provide training on generic skills essentials to management
and technical professionals. The project design was flawed from the beginning and CAR
Secretariat advised Bank consultants and staff accordingly. The Secretariat was advised
that content was indicative to secure approval and that adjustments could be made once
approved through the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).

It took the better part of two years to convince Bank staff to modify the project. It did so
only when confronted by an independent evaluation of the pilot carried out by SAGRIC
to test the training component and a feasibility study on the GDLN. The evaluation
showed that training shall be better targeted and that content and delivery needed to be
cambodianized. The feasibility study carried out by an international consultant funded
through AusAid showed that the proposed technology was very expensive and that the
GDLN was not viable as a sustainable entity without ongoing government subsidy; the
GDLN could only be entertained as a public good. A Business Plan was drafted in light
of the study.

An agreement involving significant changes to the project was finally reached in June
2005 and an Aide Memoire was signed. The Secretariat was advised that the Aide
Memoire should only refer to minor adjustments otherwise the project would need to be
resubmitted to the Bank's Board of Directors. By then, trust between the Secretariat and
Bank staff had all but disappeared and implementation was plagued by systematic delays
in the Bank fielding missions and in providing non-objection to proposed procurements.
The CAR Secretariat has learnt that the written words take precedence over
understandings and could significantly constrain flexibility during implementation.

The project was never a Bank's priority in its own rights. In the words of the Bank's
Country Manager2, the EPSCB was an attempt by the Bank to engage the Council for
Administrative Reform in a policy dialogue on reforming the Administration.




2Word Bank Country Manager said in the meeting with the General Secretary of CAR in 2007.




                                                            24

Conclusion

Cambodia is still in need of assistance to develop capacity within the Administration
however results shall be sustainable. A study carried out in 2006 by the Cambodian
Development Research Institute on developing capacity in the Administration concluded
that, for training to be effective, it shall be demand driven and that content and delivery
shall be Cambodianized. This study, in effect, supported the positions the Secretariat took
when it advocated changes to the project and vindicated its prudence at using loaned
funds.




                                                25

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

AusAID/s CATAF provided assistance to CAR to prepare a full business plan for a pilot
GDLN facility and lay the groundwork for progress towards a full GDLN-Distance
Learning Centre (to be known as the Cambodian Knowledge Centre (CKC)) via:
· Assessment of the distance learning market in Cambodia;
· Paving the way for an entrepreneurial management of the DLC;
· Defining the operating framework for the pilot DLC facility; and
· Preparation of a full business plan for the pilot facility.


The Activity specifically implemented the following:
· Undertake a comprehensive distance learning needs analysis resulting from the
   existing and planned programs of a significant sample of relevant training providers,
   including international donors and both public and private training providers currently
   active in Cambodia;
· Undertake a comprehensive market analysis for the full range of products and services
   which could be offered by the CKC that would result in a clear assessment of demand
   and willingness to pay for these services and products;
· Carry out an assessment of the relevance of current GDLN offerings to the training
   needs in Cambodia to determine whether their programming by the Cambodia DLC is
   warranted;
Determine the potential and costs of developing Cambodian content for training delivered
through distance learning.




                                            26

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  · Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 23842-KH, May 23, 2002
  · Development Credit Agreement, July 2002
  · Business Plan Development for the Cambodia Knowledge Center, CATAF-
     SAGRIC International Pty Ltd., (AusAID), November 2004
  · EPSCB-II Project Design, letter and attached docs. Dated April 21, 2005.EPSCB
  · Final Review (Training Report), conducted on behalf of SAGRIC International,
     September 2005
  · Amendment to Development Credit Agreement, April 2006
  · Quality at Entry Assessment panel report July 3, 2002




                                       27

