                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No:ICR0000334




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-34210, JPN 25831, JPN-26602)




                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                           (US$ 4.93 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                           INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA

                                         FOR A

                      HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                      June 26, 2007




Human Development Unit
Papua New Guinea, Pacific Islands and Timor-Leste Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective )

                Currency Unit = Samoan Tala (WST)
                            1.00 = US$ 0.38
                       US$1.00 = WST 2.631

                            FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1 to June 30


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALOS          Average Length of Stay
AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
CDC           Cabinet Development Committee
DOH           Department of Health
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
HACC          Health Aid Coordinating Committee
HCW           Health Care Waste
HIS or HMIS   Health Information System or Health Management Information
              System
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOH           Ministry of Health
MTII          Malietoa Tanumafili Hospital
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NHA           National Health Accounts
NHS           National Health Services
NPF           National Provident Fund
OVT           Overseas Treatment
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCC           Project Coordination Committee
PDO           Project Development Objective
PMR           Project Management Report
PMT           Project Management Team
PMU           Project Management Unit
RDH           Rural District Hospital
SES           Statement of Economic Strategy
SHSMP         Samoa Health Sector Management Project
SWAp          Sector-Wide Approach
TTM/H         Tupua Tamasese Meaole/Hospital
WHO           World Health Organization
WWTP          Water Waste Treatment Plant



                  Vice President: James W. Adams
               Country Director: Nigel Roberts
                Sector Manager: Fadia M. Saadah
            Project Team Leader: Muhammad Ali Pate
              ICR Team Leader: Jayshree Balachander

                                                      SAMOA
                               Health Sector Management Project
                                                   CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 30
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 40
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
 MAP IBRD 33472

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Health Sector
Country:                Western Samoa           Project Name:
                                                                       Management
Project ID:             P064926                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34210,JPN-26602
ICR Date:               06/28/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       INDEPENDENT
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       STATE OF SAMOA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.8M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 2.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Japan


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/22/1999    Effectiveness:         11/15/2000         11/15/2000
Appraisal:             06/27/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/14/2000    Mid-term Review:                          05/08/2004
                                     Closing:               03/31/2006         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 21                21
Health                                                            78                77
Law and justice                                                    1                 2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Health system performance                                        Primary         Primary
Law reform                                                      Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Nigel Roberts                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:           Fadia M. Saadah                     Alan Ruby
Project Team Leader:      Muhammad Ali Pate                   Rekha Menon
ICR Team Leader:          Jayshree Balachander
ICR Primary Author:       Jayshree Balachander



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To strengthen the capacity of the Department of Health to develop and implement
appropriate health policies, legislation and regulation, and to improve the functional and
technical quality of health facilities, within the health sector reform strategy.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not formally revised.


                                                ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of Department of Health revenue gained from non-government
                sources
Value
quantitative or 3.5%                        9.5%                               2.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    03/31/2005                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Revised user fees were implemented only in the last months of the project.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Percentage of health budget allocated to preventive and primary health care
Value
quantitative or 15%                         16%                                8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    03/31/2005                         12/31/2005

Comments        The final value is from the National Health Accounts 2004-05 which estimates

(incl. %        92 percent of total financing for curative care, pharmaceuticals and

achievement)    administration. However, the MTR and NHAs point out that it is difficult to
                make accurate calculations
Indicator 3 :   Percentage of health budget for overseas treatement
Value
quantitative or 15%                         10%                                17%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    03/31/2005                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Policies revised in October 2006 would result in a 10 percent savings in the OVT

achievement)    budget or 1 percent savings in the share of OVT in the health budget

Indicator 4 :   Monthly outpatient visits to health centers overall and by poor and vulnerable
                groups
Value
quantitative or 1,483                       1,630                              1,240
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    12/03/2005                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Utilization rates post refurbishment are not available due to the delay in

achievement)    completion of the civil works component till towards the end of the project

Indicator 5 :   Bed occupancy rate, average length of stay
Value
quantitative or 56%, 4.53 days              70%, 4 days                        62%, 4.2 days
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    01/01/2005                         12/31/2005
Comments        Values post refurbishment are not available.



                                                iii

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Access to inpatient services at hospitals by region of residence
Value
quantitative or 3325                        3650                                3087
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    12/31/2005                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Utilization rates post refurbishment of facilities are not available
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Proportion of the population satisfied with the health system
Value
quantitative or Not established             Not specified                       82%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    12/31/2005                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Baseline value not available because the indicator was not included in the first

achievement)    household survey


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Improved capacity to identify, test, and implement mechanisms for health
                financing and improved management of public expenditures on overseas care.
Value
(quantitative   Preparation of NHA.         Institutionalized                   3 rounds of NHA
or Qualitative)                             the NHA.

Date achieved 08/15/2001                    12/31/2005                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        To be completed every two years with a two year lag time between the end of the

achievement)    FY and the completion of the NHA


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP                Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     10/17/2000        Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     01/22/2001        Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     04/19/2001        Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory                   0.15
  4     11/30/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.25
  5     05/29/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.28
  6     12/02/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.32
  7     06/16/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.44



                                                 iv

  8   12/19/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           0.62
  9   06/23/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           0.83
  10  11/30/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           1.24
  11  05/19/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           1.98
  12  01/26/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           2.53
  13  09/20/2006        Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory    3.68
  14  12/27/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           4.10



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

The health status of the Samoan population improved steadily in the latter half of the
1990s. In the year 2000, the country had an infant mortality rate of 23 per 1,000 live
births, a maternal mortality rate of 60 per 100,000 live births and an average life
expectancy of 72 years. These achievements could be attributed to the development of the
Samoan health system, which included the upgrading of clinical facilities and the
establishment of outreach services in rural areas through a system of community nurses.

However, Samoa at this time was also undergoing a health transition, with the emergence
of non-communicable diseases mainly cancer, hypertension and diabetes. Further, while
initial gains had been had by the expansion of health services coverage, the quality,
efficiency and financing of the health system needed attention. The poor quality of
health services resulted in underutilization of the facilities in the periphery including by-
passing of primary facilities and low bed occupancy at district hospitals. At the same time,
the expanding boundaries of Apia and major resettlements near the capital resulted in
overcrowding of the outpatient facilities at the national referral hospital. An important
determinant of quality was the management of human resources and the high turnover of
staff. The incentive structures such as the central financing of facilities and salaries and
lack of user fees worked against the efficient use of resources by both service providers
and users of the health system. Health care financing was facing several challenges,
principally, the shift in disease patterns to chronic diseases which increased the cost of
care, much of which had to be sought overseas. While health policy favored preventive
services, the bulk of resources (>90 percent) were directed towards less cost-effective
curative care. Further, the Government had a new regulatory role to play in the face of
increased private sector participation in health care.

In 1996, The Government of Samoa issued a Statement of Economic Strategy which
outlined a set of public sector reforms with the goal of achieving a more efficient and cost
effective public sector and developing stronger and more effective links to the private
sector and other stakeholders in civil society. The Ministry of Health (MOH) developed a
Health Sector Strategic Plan 1998-2003, outlining its health priorities within the context
of the reform. The plan aimed for a continued increase in access to care, improved
quality and a more effective interaction of the private and public sectors. The strategy had
three components: institutional strengthening, primary health care/health promotion and
quality improvements. In 1998, the World Bank conducted a review of the Samoan
health sector and provided suggestions for improvement of the Strategic Plan. The
review recommended that the Government needed to redefine its role in the sector,
strengthen public health programs, improve the delivery of public sector services and
ensure equitable and efficient use of health finances.

The World Bank's country strategy note for Samoa sought to support the Government in
its efforts at public sector reform through a continuing but modest level of lending



                                              1

operations focused on key sectors where the World Bank had comparative advantage -
infrastructure, health and education - augmented by a more focused program of non-
lending economic and sector analysis.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objectives as stated in Section 1 of the PAD were to strengthen
the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and implement appropriate health
policies, legislation and regulation, and to improve the functional and technical quality of
health facilities, within the health sector reform strategy.

The key indicators identified in the PAD were the following:

1. Percentage of health budget met from user fees
2. Percentage of health budget allocated to public health and primary health care
3. Percentage share of overseas treatment in health budget
4. Monthly outpatient visits to health centers, overall and by the poor
5. Bed occupancy rates by ward, average length of stay in hospitals
6. Access to in-patient services at hospitals by region of residence
7. Percentage of the population satisfied with health services

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were not formally revised, but the mid term review made a
detailed assessment of the indicators and proposed revisions based on the availability or
usefulness of the indicators. Subsequent to the mid term review the proposed changes
were not effected.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

The PAD identifies "health sector stakeholders" as the main beneficiaries as the project
would build their capacity to (i) develop and implement health policies and (ii) plan,
manage and monitor implementation of capital investment projects. Civil society and the
private sector were also intended to benefit as a result of increased voice in health sector
policy development, provision and financing. The PAD also states that although the
project does not specifically target the poor, disadvantaged groups would be identified
from household surveys and stakeholder consultations, and systems established and
monitored to ensure that the new policies are equitable and that there are no adverse
effects on the poor.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

The three components of the Health Sector Management Project are A) Institutional
Strengthening B) Quality Improvement and C) Project Management and Coordination.




                                               2

Component A. Institutional Strengthening ­ US$1.41 million
This component backed three elements of the Institutional Strengthening component of
the Samoa Health Sector Reform as follows:
    1) Strengthening Policy Framework sub-component that supported the review,
       development and implementation of policies for a) health financing and b) health
       services plan.    Health financing policies include the preparation of National
       Health Accounts which would provide information on the sources and uses of
       funds and the basis for planning and reform, including the management of funds
       for overseas treatment. Planning policies covered overall service delivery as well
       as facility specific service plans and the role of the private sector. The project
       provided technical support, capacity building, studies and consultation with
       stakeholders and beneficiaries.
    2) Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation sub-component provided
       technical assistance for drafting health care legislation, including draft bills and
       draft regulations under the relevant acts to cover the provision of public and
       private health services; and
    3) Support for Communication and Introduction of Policies and Legislation sub-
       component which provided support for developing and implementing a
       communication and consultation strategy for the health sector reform agenda
       including training in participatory processes and consultation with stakeholders
       for the continued communication, preparation, evaluation and monitoring of
       progress in the sector reform program.

Component B. Quality Improvement ­ US$4.24 million
The three sub-components of the Quality Improvement component were:
    1) Improving Facilities planning which involved the preparation of a health sector
       investment master plan based on the services strategy developed under component
       A 1. It also provided for developing capacity to plan, manage and maintain
       capital assets.
    2) Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure which provided financing for structural
       and equipment investments at the TTM hospital identified in the facility master
       plans (B 1) as well as the rehabilitation (replacement) and equipping of selected
       rural health centers; and
    3) Developing a Health Care Waste Management System which would support the
       development and implementation of an efficient and sustainable health care waste
       management system including the development of policy and operational
       guidelines for medical waste disposal in public health facilities. A Japan grant
       funded an incinerator that was included under this component.

In addition, grants for Innovative Quality Improvement Pilots were funded under a Japan
Grant.

Component C. Project Management and Coordination ­ US$0.42 million
This component included the functioning of the Project Management Team (PMT) which
was to provide management support for the project including financial and procurement
management, and coordination among various implementing units in the Department of



                                            3

Health. The project would fund project management consultants, travel, training and
other administrative expenses.

1.6    Revised Components
N.A.

1.7    Other significant changes

There were no significant changes to project design, which continued to be relevant
despite the Government's new Samoa Health Strategic Plans: 2004-08 (and subsequently
2004-18), which only deepened and accelerated the reform process. The project closing
date was extended by nine months from March 31, 2006 to December 31, 2006 in order
to be able to complete important outputs.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Sector Program Approach. The Government of Samoa had embarked on a health sector
reform program in 1998, based on its Statement of Economic Strategy (a macroeconomic
and public sector reform program) and a Health Sector Strategic Plan 1998-2003. The
project identification mission reported that the MOH had planned to propose projects to
donors to support its strategic plan as follows: policy, legislation and regulation, priorities
in women's health and facilities planning and rehabilitation (World Bank); management
reform, strengthening primary health care and non-communicable diseases (AusAid),
child health policy and service improvement (NZODA), hospitals and project
management (JICA) and communicable diseases (WHO). The IDA project that was
subsequently prepared and approved was generally consistent with this role the
Government had envisaged for the World Bank. Similarly the other donors approved
projects supporting the areas earmarked for them. The complementary nature of the
donor funding for achieving sector goals was recognized and they were expected to
operate in a coordinated and synergistic manner under a Memorandum of Agreement and
A Health Aid Coordinating Committee (HACC). However, in practice, these mechanisms
proved to be inadequate to ensure close on-the-ground coordination during project
implementation.

Capacity and Risk Assessment. The project may have overestimated the Government's
capacity for project implementation, even with substantial technical assistance. The
Government's own assessment (Borrower's section of the ICR) is that the project's
design and time frame were too ambitious, given the Ministry's capacity, although the
Bank's assessment during appraisal was that the project design was sufficiently simple
and that adequate technical assistance had been provided for successful implementation.
Further, several project outputs, mainly the adoption of new policies and legislations,
required action from a number of Government stakeholders besides the Ministry of
Health. The project's risk assessment overlooked the need for coordination and timely
action from within and outside of the MOH for the achievement of project objectives,
including cooperation among all of the Divisions of the Ministry and from other offices


                                             4

of the Government such as the Ministry of Finance, the Public Service Commission and
the Office of the Attorney General. The project identified a comprehensive list of lessons
learned, but some aspects (institutional capacity building and interdependence of project
and program components), continued to pose problems during project implementation.

Participatory Process. A small team within the DOH was assigned the management of
project preparation, an approach which may have led to an assessment by the client at
project closing that ownership, in the first few years of the project, was limited to the
Project Management Team led by the Director and comprising a coordinator, financial
manager and procurement officer. With respect to wider consultations with stakeholders,
the PAD laid out a framework for stakeholder consultations, identifying key issues,
associated risks and consultation mechanisms, included a stakeholder consultation
process and staffing. While there were periodic outputs from the process during
implementation, they were not integrated into the design or decisions relating to the other
components (see 2.2. Mid Term Review below)

2.2    Implementation

The project was the first project financed by IDA in the Ministry of Health. As such it
took time for the Ministry to become familiar with World Bank procedures and
implementation processes. Implementation progress was slow to begin but picked up
significantly in the last two years of the project. Some of the factors that affected project
implementation are:

Timely decision making. An important factor which delayed the translation of policies
and legislations drafted under the project into adopted Government policies and laws was
the delay in prompt or firm decision making on the part of the Government of Samoa
including the Ministry of Finance, Office of the Attorney General and the Ministry of
Health. For example, the policy study relating to user fees was completed by mid-term,
but was not implemented till the closing months of the project.

High staff turnover. Within the implementing agency, frequent changes in staffing
affected the understanding of and commitment to project objectives. A shortage of
qualified and trained professionals in the country was exacerbated in the public sector as
trained staff constantly sought better opportunities in the private sector and via
immigration. It should be noted that there was greater stability after the mid-term review.

Limited contractors/suppliers. One factor outside the control of government or the
implementing agency that affected project performance was the availability of high
quality contractors/suppliers, particularly for infrastructure projects. Given the small size
and remoteness of the Pacific Islands, the Government was faced with a shortage of in-
country suppliers and poor response from international suppliers to many of its
procurement notices, leaving it at the mercy of sole or a few suppliers of goods and
services.

Mid-Term Review. The Bank conducted a comprehensive mid-term review (MTR) of the
project. The MTR identified a number of issues and made several recommendations. The


                                              5

first was the need for the sub-components to work together to achieve overall project
objectives. For example, the service plans had been prepared without considering current
funding or finances that would be required to make the plans work; the legislative
component did not cover areas for user fees, health insurance or hospital autonomy, key
areas for policy change; the social assessment conducted to identify poor households was
not linked to the impact of increased user fees on them. The MTR pointed out that an
integrated approach to health financing, service delivery and social development was
necessary to provide a solution to the problem of poor utilization of the health facilities.
The MTR identified the issue of management autonomy of the health facilities, which
could have made for more expeditious implementation of the new policies. The MTR
also recommended changes in the project indicators.         While efforts were made in
subsequent supervision missions to address some of the issues raised by the MTR, the
indicators were not officially revised.

Health sector policies and financing: The Government announced two major decisions
affecting the sector during project implementation. The first was to introduce Medisave, a
form of health insurance proposed by the National Provident Fund (NPF), which could
dramatically change the health care system in Samoa. A policy paper on financing
options prepared under the project recommended a two stage approach to sustainable
health financing: first, by increasing user fees and charging NPF the true costs of
providing health care to the elderly and second, by introducing social health insurance
scheme funded through a payroll tax. In view of the Government's decision to take a
different route with Medisave, the MTR recommended that the project undertake
additional research to be able to support the roll out of the new system. In the end, the
Government cancelled the implementation of the Medisave program. Towards the end of
the project, the Government also decided to separate the service delivery arm of the
Ministry as a National Health Service (NHS), leaving the MOH with the core functions
of regulating the health sector, responsible for policy development, monitoring and
evaluation.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M & E Design. Seven outcome/impact indicators were identified in Annex 1 of the PAD
to assess the achievement of the project development objective and an additional sixteen
output indicators to monitor progress towards achievement of the goals. While the first
PDO sought to generally "strengthen the capacity of the MOH to develop and implement
appropriate health policies", three specific indicators were selected to measure
achievement the PDO, including the increase in percentage share of user fees, primary
and public health care, and overseas treatment financing in the health budget. The four
indicators selected for the second general PDO, to "improve the functional and technical
quality of health facilities", were increased outpatient visits to health centers, bed
occupancy rates, access to in-patient visits, and percentage of the population satisfied
with health services.

M & E Indicators. The indicators were analyzed and discussed in detail during the MTR.
A summary assessment of the indicators is that of the original 7 indicators, only 2 could



                                            6

be tracked, 3 needed to be revised/adjusted, 1 could not be used because it was not
collected, and 1 was inappropriate, as detailed below.

Indicator 1. Increased percentage of MOH revenues derived from non-governmental
sources. It is debatable whether this is an appropriate indicator for evaluating the MOHs
capacity to implement appropriate policies. It is not clear that increasing fees at rural
facilities is desirable, given low utilization rates. There is a case for increasing fees at
TTMH, especially the wards renovated under the project. The indicator should therefore
at least have been adjusted to cover only the latter.

Indicator 2. Increased percentage of MOH resources to primary and preventive health
care. The National Health Accounts (NHA), the source of this data, did not provide for
clear estimates. For example, `public health' includes the overseas treatment program
and the primary care provided by TTMH through its outpatient services is not included in
the budget for primary health care. A clear definition of the terms and attendant
methodology for allocating expenditures should have been developed upfront.

Indicator 3. Reduced percentage of the health budget for overseas treatment.

This indicator is appropriate.

Indicator 4. Increased bed-occupancy by ward, reduce average length of stay and
increase bed turnover rate. It is not possible to calculate bed occupancy rates reliably in
a situation where the number of beds per ward is not fixed and hence this indicator was
not useful.

Indicator 5. Increased access to inpatient services at hospitals for patients from rural
areas of Upolu and Savaii. While the refurbishment of rural facilities seems likely to
increase outpatient visits, the MTR considered increase in hospitalization at these
facilities unlikely and recommended dropping this indicator.

Indicator 6. Increased monthly outpatient visits to health centers. This indicator is
appropriate for assessing the performance of the rural health system.

Indicator 7. Increased proportion of population satisfied with the health system.
Although a useful indicator, it was not included in the baseline household survey and
hence could not be evaluated. The MTR recommended it be dropped.

M & E Implementation. Except as indicated, the data sources existed or were established
under the project. Monitoring reports were prepared by the Project Management Team
(PMT) based on data from the NHA, the Health Information System (HIS) and
monitoring by the PMT. The monitoring reports were however of limited value to
decision making during project implementation since the indicator values were dependent
on important health financing policy decisions, most of which were not taken till the very
end of the project. For example, the overseas treatment and user fees policies were
adopted only in October and November 2006 respectively and hence had little impact on



                                              7

the relevant indicators.   Other key impact indicators relating to the utilization and
satisfaction with health services were dependent on the completion of infrastructural
facilities under the quality improvement component, which was also delayed till the
closing days the project.

Overall, the project monitoring and evaluation during implementation was mixed, with
good routine project reports, including FMRs, especially in the latter half of project
implementation, and weakness in terms of the quality of the indicators and lag in
obtaining the information.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management. World Bank missions regularly reviewed fiduciary compliance,
and conducted reviews of statements of expenditure, including a review of financial
management at mid-term and before the closing of the project.             The assessments
concluded that accounting and financial management were satisfactory. The PMT had
established a computerized accounting system, a system of internal controls and was able
to generate Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) manually from the system.            Minor
shortcomings such as small imbalances and variances from estimated/planned
expenditures were corrected promptly. Audit reports were submitted regularly, though
with some delay.

Procurement. Despite considerable support for procurement through training and from
Bank missions, the task of following procedures and especially timelines for procurement
proved to be especially challenging for the PMT. The project procurement timelines did
not plan for the requirements of the Government's Tender Board and legal requirements
of the Office of the Attorney General, in addition to meeting the Bank's guidelines.
However the major procurement activities were completed before the closing date in spite
of long delays, and post-reviews showed full compliance with accepted procedures.

Disbursement. The project had initial lag in disbursement related to procurement delays.
By the second half of project implementation disbursement improved.                 Final
disbursement was satisfactory (SDR 3.12 million), leaving an undisbursed balance of
only SDR 0.17 million. The undisbursed funds have been attributed to SDR appreciation.
The Japan Grants were almost fully disbursed (USD 68,000 and USD 323,000
respectively). The project achievement in this regard is considerable.

Environmental Assessment. Although an environmental assessment was not required at
the time of project preparation, the project included a health care waste management sub-
component based on a recommendation of the safeguards review. This effort succeeded
in developing a Health Care Waste Management Policy and a Health Care Waste
Management Plan for Samoa where none existed. The project also trained a number of
master trainers in the country to sustain the continued implementation of the system. An
incinerator was procured through a Japan grant and other inputs funded through the IDA
credit. The project rehabilitated the TTMH Water Waste Treatment facility and




                                              8

conducted a subsequent environmental impact assessment for the facility showing
positive results.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Government of Samoa has decided to prioritize the health sector for its IDA
allocation, and hence the Bank has commenced the preparation of a follow-on project. In
a bi-annual health sector roundtable consultation convened by the Government in
December 2006, and including all major donors in the sector, the Government presented
a revised strategy that incorporated a sector-wide approach linked to priorities identified
in its Health Sector Strategy, within the framework of the Government's Medium Term
Expenditure Framework. The strategy is based on a partnership approach including a
common performance monitoring system and simplified, harmonized donor procedures
where feasible.

It is expected that the next phase will consolidate the legislative and policy reforms that
were initiated under the project and ensure that adequate budget provisions will be made
to sustain the operation and maintenance systems and financing of health facilities. The
separation of the NHS provides an opportunity for further focused capacity building for
the regulatory, standard setting, contracting and monitoring functions of the core MOH
on the one hand, and piloting autonomy, service quality improvement and public-private
partnerships in service delivery on the other.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The first project objective of developing the stewardship role of the Ministry of Health by
strengthening its capacity to develop and implement appropriate health policies was
appropriate and responsive to the borrower's circumstances and priorities. The Ministry
of Health (MOH) lacked the planning, financial and legal skills necessary in its reformed
role as organizer, financier and regulator, rather than only as a provider of health services.
The project therefore provided an opportunity for the Bank to support the broad
economic and public sector reform agenda of the Government. The second objective
which is to improve the functional and technical quality of health facilities is (based on
the indicators) intended to have a significant impact on the efficiency and utilization of
the facilities. However, the PDO is focused on the supply of services with less attention
to the demand side issues which may have had a greater influence on the utilization of the
facilities.

The project's design was appropriate for reaching the first of the two development
objectives - strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and
implement appropriate policies, legislation and regulation.        The preparation of the
National Health Accounts, the review of key policies related to health financing and the
development of an appropriate legislative framework were important elements of the
capacity development for health reform.         With regard to the second objective of
improving the functional and technical quality of health facilities, the proposed facilities


                                              9

planning and improvement components may have been adequate to meet the desired goal.
However the impact of this PDO on the utilization of services is contingent on the
synchronized provision of a number of other inputs including adequate human resources,
pharmaceuticals and quality standards and in addressing demand side issues.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project succeeded in delivering most of its planned outputs before the project closing
date. (Annex 2 lists the outputs under the different components). The outputs were
largely appropriate for achieving the first objective of building capacity in the Ministry of
Health for appropriate policies, legislations and regulations related to the health sector.
Moreover, a significant amount of training, both formal and on-the-job, took place and
capacities were developed which did not earlier exist in the MOH. Samoa was the first
Pacific Island to implement a system of National Health Accounts (NHA). The NHA
process has been institutionalized and capacity developed within the Ministry to carry out
repeat NHAs. Seven major health financing policies (user fees, overseas treatment,
hospital rate setting, rural health financing, public health financing, framework for private
health services, and health insurance options) were reviewed and policy options drafted.
Policy recommendations relating to overseas treatment and user fees were implemented
just before the project closed. Seven existing legislations were identified for
amendment/revision and four areas had been identified for the development of new
legislations. Of these, two revised legislations have been passed and nine others are in
advanced stages of review in Parliament.

With regard to the objective of improving the functional and technical quality of health
facilities, service plans were developed for rural health services, urban health services
and for clinical services at the Tupua Tamasese Meaole Hospital (TTMH), which
provided the basis for the refurbishment of TTMH and five rural health facilities.
Although the work at the TTMH was completed only in May 2006, some positive results
were reported by the Government (Borrower ICR) including a reduction in post operative
infections and improved workflow both in the operation theaters and the outpatient ward.
The project also succeeded in establishing for the first time, a policy and plan for health
care waste management in the country. Except for the Health Care Waste Management
sub-component, which was very well implemented, other activities under this component
were however, delayed. As the refurbished facilities came into operation only in the last
few months of the project, it is not clear whether the inputs would suffice to have the
intended impact on the utilization of services.

With respect to project implementation, almost all planned outputs were completed by
the project closing date. However, there were delays in many of the outputs which meant
that many benefits that were intended to flow during the project period would accrue only
after the project's closing date. The civil works were completed only in the last month of
the project, delaying benefits and making it difficult to assess the impact of the
improvements on facility utilization. Policies regarding overseas treatment and user fees
were approved only in the last quarter of the project. The household survey, which was
intended to identify the impact of the policy reforms on poor households for necessary
adjustments, was likewise completed only as the project closed.


                                               10

In terms of outcome indicators, mainly because of the late completion of outputs, none of
the seven key indicators have reached their target levels. There is likely however, to be
some impact on two of the indicators (increase in revenues and increased efficiency in the
OVT program) with the recent implementation of policies in this regard. User fees for all
outpatient facilities was increased from WST $0.50 to WST $5 per visit in November
2006, increasing the revenue from non-government sources. However the impact of this
increase on service utilization and therefore the steady state increase will not be known
for some time. With regard to the Overseas Treatment (OVT) Policy which was adopted
in October 2006, transportation costs are now borne by families of the patients and a
savings of about WST$400,000 per year (about 10 percent of the OVT budget) is
expected as a result. Of the remaining five indicators relating to quality and efficiency
gains, it is not possible to make any definite assessment of project impact at this stage.

3.3     Efficiency

The project cost benefit analysis at the time of project appraisal estimated gains from
selected, quantifiable benefits as follows: (i) increased MOH revenues from user fees;
(ii) decreased public expenditure on overseas care, (iii) decreased costs of inpatient care
at TTMH as a result of increased operational efficiency, and (iv) decreased costs of
outpatient care as a result of improved referral structures (greater outpatient treatment at
health clinics and fewer referrals to high cost TTMH).

Annex 3 details why a re-estimated cost and benefit stream comparison based on the
above is not possible at this stage. An increase in the Ministry's revenue through user
fees cannot strictly be treated as an economic benefit, as it is, rather, a transfer of income
from patients to the government. While the intention of the project was to redirect the
health budget to primary and public health programs, there is no evidence yet of actual
changes in that direction. Changes in the Overseas Treatment Policy could result in an
economic benefit equal to the difference in treatment and transportation costs between in-
country service costs and cost of treatment outside the country, assuming comparable
quality. The Government has recently withdrawn travel support previously provided to
those seeking treatment abroad, but there is no data at this time to estimate demand
elasticity or difference in treatment costs. With respect to the efficiency gains at TTMH
and the rural hospitals, (completed in the last year and the final month of the project
respectively), it was likewise impossible to calculate impact in the absence of any
(changed) data on utilization, cost of services and average length of stay after the
improvements had been completed.

However, the new policies, if implemented fully, have the potential for high returns. For
example, the policy paper on user fees recommended full cost recovery from the National
Provident Fund for patients covered under the insurance scheme. This would increase the
repayment to TTMH for every senior citizen treated at the hospital to WST$75 per
patient from WST$4 at the present time, which could potentially be used to improve the
quality and efficiency of health services at TTMH. Second, the paper recommended
adopting social health insurance combining a payroll tax for employed persons and
government financing for the poor, which could improve equity in health care. Another


                                             11

policy recommendation that has not yet been implemented is one of using a differentiated
level of outpatient fees at TTMH and rural health centers, which could potentially
redirect patients to lower cost facilities. Similarly, the Overseas Treatment Policy review
recommended changes in the eligibility and selection criteria, recording and monitoring
systems, management and coordination, which would improve the efficiency of this
program. Moreover, it should be noted that a number of benefits that are not easily
monetized also accrued from the project. The benefit from the Health Care Waste
Management component is one such example.               Other effects include impacts from
improved regulation of health care, allocation of greater resources to primary and
preventive health care services and improved capacity at the Ministry of Health for policy
development and program management.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.          Overall, the project
objectives were appropriate and relevant to the Pacific Island country context, but some
weaknesses in design compromised the ability of the project to achieve its objectives
fully. Some difficulties encountered during implementation, such as the time it took for
Government to take necessary and appropriate policy decisions. The delayed delivery of
some of the outputs also prevented the project from reaching target values for
performance indicators and further deferred the benefit stream that was expected from the
project until after the closing date. However, the project has succeeded in equipping the
Government with the tools needed to implement policy and legislative actions that are
required for reforming the sector, particularly with regard to health financing and the
regulatory role of Government. It has also laid the groundwork for improving the quality
of services by refurbishing key facilities and preparing plans for the overall delivery of
health services and for service planning at the facility level. In the Pacific Island country
context these achievements are quite significant.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The impact on vulnerable groups of the increase in user fees and reforms in rural health
financing and services delivery would need to be evaluated in any subsequent operation
through qualitative means, in the absence of baseline information.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project has equipped the Ministry of Health to perform its stewardship role in the
sector by developing the necessary tools. The institutionalization of the NHA is evidence
that capacity exists to carry out new and sophisticated tasks. The PMT, according to the
Government's view (see Borrower section of ICR), also imbibed the Bank's work culture,
resulting in a more time-bound and target oriented approach to performance.




                                              12

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The implementation experience of this project, along with bilateral supports to the health
sector from Australian Agency for International Development and New Zealand Agency
for International Development, helped build a good base for development of a sector-
wide approach in the sector as a means to improve the effectiveness of development aid.
The implementation model used in the project is being looked to for adaptation during the
SWAp. The PMT has been retained to be the Secretariat for the SWAp.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A beneficiary survey was carried out in 2005 to assess the health care status, utilization of
health services and financing of health care costs by households. The survey showed that
about 5 percent of the population suffered from chronic illness, mostly diabetes and
hypertension. About 76 percent of those who identified themselves as chronically ill had
sought treatment. Of those who were not currently under treatment, more than three
fourths had rejected or given up treatment for chronic illness. About 12 percent were
receiving home treatment and 8 percent cited financial reasons for not seeking treatment.
About half of the treatment costs went towards transportation costs, 28 percent on
medication and 24 percent towards consultation.

Another 5 percent of the population identified themselves as having suffered acute illness
just prior to the survey, two-thirds from the regions of Savaii and Apia. Of these, 70
percent had sought treatment, while 19 percent considered themselves not seriously ill, 8
percent undertook home treatment and 3 persons had financial problems or considered it
too far to go to receive treatment. About 40 percent had been treated at TTMH. Flu was
cited as the major reason for illness. Medicines accounted for the major share of health
costs.

About 2.3 percent of the population had been hospitalized in the four weeks prior to the
survey. Of these, 40 percent were for birth deliveries. Of the remaining, 37 percent cited
critical illness as the reason for hospitalization. More than two-thirds had been
hospitalized at TTMH, 16 percent at regional hospitals and 11 percent at the residence of
traditional healers.

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Moderate. The main risk is political in that the Government may backtrack on the reform
process, get sidetracked into adopting new policies for which it is poorly prepared or fail
to follow through on appropriate policies and reform changes that were set in motion
under the project. However, the risk is moderate given that the general direction of both
the overall public sector reform and the health sector strategy has been consistent over a
ten year period. There is a risk that the Ministry of Health has not fully developed
institutional capacity to carry out some of the analytical and technical tasks (costing
studies, social assessments, service plans) and that there will be poor follow up of
processes that have been initiated. However the possibility of a follow on project by the
Bank and the availability of the support of other donors mitigate this risk.


                                            13

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Moderately satisfactory. The project was prepared taking into account the Government's
strategy and the Bank's lending priorities and sector strategy. However the broad
definition of the PDO and difficulties with the indicators selected made it difficult to
assess the impact of the project. The components could be deemed to be adequate to
meet project objectives despite minor flaws, but the technical and economic analysis at
appraisal was unsatisfactory. The preparation team overrated the Government's capacity
to implement the project and its commitment to carry out the reforms in a timely manner.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Moderately satisfactory. Missions regularly monitored progress and provided timely
advice and assistance to the Borrower. The mid-term review was particularly detailed
and made a number of useful suggestions for improving implementation and outcomes.
Towards the end of the project, a sense of urgency was communicated to the client,
which resulted in the successful completion of most of the outputs. Fiduciary
responsibilities were diligently exercised with post reviews carried out on every mission.
While no safeguards were triggered, considerable attention was paid to health care waste
management.       However supervision missions tended to be overly generous with
performance ratings, given the failure of the Borrower to take actions necessary for the
achievement of performance indicators until the very end of the project. Even the mid-
term review, despite its detailed analysis and identification of shortcomings, rated the
project satisfactory although disbursement stood at only about16 percent of the credit
after three and a half years of implementation and no major policy decisions had been
made despite the completion of several policy studies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory because the task teams exhibit a
degree of diligence through the entire process and the advice/feedback provided to the
client was appropriate and if followed, could have resulted in a satisfactory project
outcome.


5.2     Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Moderately satisfactory. The delays in decision making at the level of the Government
led to the project's failure to meet its key performance indicators. While carefully
studied policies prepared under the project were not acted upon in good time, the
Government announced a new policy (such as Medisave) which later had to be put on
hold. However the fact that some key policies and reforms were implemented before the




                                             14

project's closing date and that several legislations are nearing completion confirms the
Government's commitment to reforming the sector.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Moderately satisfactory.
Ministry of Health                The Ministry's performance is rated moderately
                                  satisfactory despite the delays in implementation
                                  because it succeeded in delivering a large number of
                                  outputs expected of it, despite high staff turnover and
                                  limited capacity. The Ministry also had to deal with the
                                  uncertainty relating to a major structural change while
                                  the project was being implemented. The MOH carried
                                  out its fiduciary and reporting responsibilities diligently.
                                  The institutionalization of the NHA is evidence that the
                                  Ministry is now capable of performing complex tasks. It
                                  has also acquired other competencies such as Health
                                  Care    Waste     Management,     the  management        of
                                  construction, and of Bank funded projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Moderately satisfactory. This was the first Bank funded project for the Ministry of
Health and considerable learning was needed, both in terms of Bank process and the
target oriented and time bound culture. Although many of the outputs and some key
decisions were delayed, in the end, the Borrower did complete almost all of the outputs
and has begun to deliver on its policy commitments.

6.     Lessons Learned

The project yielded several important lessons which would be taken into account in
designing the next phase of World Bank support to the Samoa health program. The
lessons include:
    · Reform is not only a technical matter. It is easy for projects to assume that
       once the technical tools are made available and options presented, Governments
       will promptly follow up with the logical step of acceptance and implementation of
       the reform. In fact, this project, recognizing the need for acceptance of change,
       included a communications component intended to publicize and win wide
       support for the proposed reform. Despite this, and the Government's overall
       strong commitment to reforming the public sector, major decisions were delayed
       till almost the closing stages of the project. The lesson seems to be that sector
       reform projects could benefit from socio-political analysis of the implications of
       the proposed reform and formulating a strategy to deal with potential bottlenecks,
       besides explicitly recognizing the high risk of delay or failure to take necessary
       decisions on the part of the Government.

    · Need to understand better institutional decision making processes.                  An
       institutional analysis, which provides an understanding of the way decisions are


                                             15

  made within and across Ministries, is essential to ensure that the project is
  supported not only by champions within the Ministry, but has the backing of all
  the relevant units within and outside the counterpart agency that will be involved
  in authorizing or implementing project activities. In the case of this project the
  close involvement of the Ministry of Finance was very helpful.

· Focus on having clear and measurable project development objectives:
  Careful definition of the Project Development Objective and the identification of
  appropriate indicators that can be collected and which accurately reflect the
  intended impact are crucial for project evaluation purposes. Baselines need to be
  established as early as possible in the project cycle.

· Coordination of donor inputs can be challenging under a loosely defined
  mechanism such as a Memorandum of Understanding. Especially in the context
  of a small country with a few important donors, a fully coordinated approach such
  as a SWAP format is likely to be more appropriate. A commonly agreed sector
  expenditure program process would help to ensure all partners are engaged and
  finance a common program in a coordinated fashion.

· Simplify and adapt procurement planning to country context. Since the time
  the project was prepared, the Bank has instituted a number of measures to ensure
  greater readiness for procurement, including preparation of the first year's bidding
  documents and a full fledged assessment of procurement capacity. Relatively
  small and remote locations, such as the Pacific Islands, where few contractors are
  likely to be available require special steps such as wider publicity in the Region as
  well as seeking opportunities for collaborative packaging with other works funded
  by the Government or other donors.

· Sustaining capacity building is imperative. While projects typically support the
  building of individual capacity and the capacity of units within Ministries to
  perform, the mainstreaming and sustainability of capacity development continues
  to pose challenges. This was the first Bank project in the sector in Samoa, and the
  client has noted that the working with the Bank was useful in instilling a new
  sense of professionalism and urgency in the Project Management Team. Perhaps
  the time bound nature of the project was useful in getting the Government to
  finally take necessary action. This is a common enough outcome for the Bank to
  consider more formal ways of developing a new work culture in counterpart
  agencies, beyond the Project Implementation Units.

· Identify project risks realistically. Finally a lesson learned is that even when
  "lessons learned" are rightly identified during project preparation; they can
  resurface as a risk during project implementation. Lessons learned should be
  included in the identification of risks where appropriate and suitable risk
  mitigation measures planned.




                                        16

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(E.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                          17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                            1.61               1.42            88.2

QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                      4.64               4.23            91.2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT &
COORDINATION                             0.37               0.42           113.5


            Total Baseline Cost          6.62               6.07            91.7

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs         6.62               6.07            91.7
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required           6.62               6.07            91.7




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                    Financing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Government of Samoa                Govt         1.23         0.38         31
International Development
Association (IDA)                  IDA          5.00         5.30         106

JPN 25831                          Grant        0.07         0.07         100
JPN 26602                          Grant        0.32         0.32         100




                                           18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Institutional Strengthening
A.1 Health Care Financing and Resource Allocation
NHA report 1998/1999
NHA report 2001/2002
NHA report 2002/2003
NHA report 2004/2005 (draft)
NHA institutionalization plan
TTM hospital services plan
Urban health services plan
Rural health services plan
Public health program financing options
Hospital costing studies (completed 2002, 2003)
Options for health financing
Discussion paper on health financing policy (completed 2002, internal discussion paper)
Household survey 2000 (completed, used as baseline)
Household survey 2005 (completed 2006)
Overseas treatment policy and action plan (completed 2006, approved by cabinet)
Overseas treatment for Samoan residents (completed 2002, led to OVT policy)

A.2 Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation
Ministry of Health Bill
National Health Service Bill
Public Health Bill
Mental Health Bill
Review of Dental Practitioners Act 1975
Review of Medical Practitioners Act 1975
Review of Nursing Practitioners Act 1969
Review of Pharmacy Act 1976
Tobacco Control Bill
Food, Drugs, and Therapeutic Goods Bill
Health Consumers Rights Bill
Health Care Professionals Regulation Bill

A.3 Communication and Introduction of Policies and Legislation
Community and Communication Participation Strategy
Paper on vulnerable groups
Monthly Health Sector Reforms Communications and Community Participation Work
Group meetings
Newsletter (5 issues as of May 2004)




                                           19

Component B: Quality Improvement

Facilities and Equipment Maintenance Policy (endorsed by senior management)
Health Sector Plan 2006-2010 (completed)
TTMH Master Plan
Rural Capital Investment Plan (approved July 2004)
Health Care Waste Management Plan
National Health Care Waste Management Policy
National clinical waste management system in place
TTMH rehabilitated
Rural health facilities rehabilitated
Wastewater Treatment Plan upgraded
Incinerator Facility at Tafaigata Landfill upgraded

Component C: Project Management and Coordination

Bi-annual Project Progress Reports
Quarterly Project Management Reports and Financial Reports
Yearly Audits
Capital Works and Services Planning Steering Committee meetings
Quarterly Project Coordination Committee (PCC) meetings
Monthly Health Aid Coordination Committee (HACC) meetings
Monthly progress reports for HACC
Monthly progress reports for PCC
Quarterly PCC meetings
Fortnightly meetings between Treasury and PMT
Trained staff
Workshops
Borrower Implementation Completion Report




                                             20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project economic analysis at the time of appraisal estimated benefits from the
following four quantifiable project impacts: i) increase in the Ministry's revenues through
user fees; ii) budgetary savings from reform of the overseas treatment policy; iii) cost
savings from efficiency gains at TTMH and iv) cost savings from redirecting outpatients
to lower level facilities from TTMH. In view of some shortcomings with this approach
and the non-availability of some key data, comparing the estimated values with the actual
(or re-estimated) benefits at the close of the project is not meaningful, as discussed below.

User Fees. The inpatient fee in hospitals was WST$4 per day and the outpatient fee was
WST$ 0.5 in all levels and types of health facilities, including TTMH, at the start of the
project. The cost-benefit analysis projected a scenario where the inpatient fee in hospitals
was increased to WST$ 20 per day and the outpatient fee to WST$4 in hospitals and
WST$2 in health centers.           A resultant increase in revenues of about US $500,000
(WST$ 1.5 million) per year was consequently estimated starting in year 2 of the project.
However, although a policy paper outlining the full range of options for increasing
revenues was prepared early in the project, the Government did not take a decision in the
matter till November 2006, when it was agreed that the outpatient fee would be increased
to WST$5 per visit. Assuming the increase has no effect on the number of outpatient
visits1, this should result in additional income going forward of about USD 342,205
(WST$900,000) per year. However, the very presumption that increasing user fees per se
will result in an economic benefit, is erroneous. The collection of user fees would merely
result in a transfer of income from patients to the Government. There are no clear
indications at this stage that the income would be appropriately redirected to increase the
overall quality, efficiency or equity of health services, which might then have a presumed
economic benefit.

Overseas Treatment. The project supported a comprehensive revision of the overseas
treatment policy. At appraisal it was estimated that savings of $183,000 (WST$549,000)
a year would accrue from year 3 of the project onwards by adopting the new policy.
However during the project, OVT continued to maintain a slightly increasing share of the
health budget as the policy was adopted only in the final year of the project. In October
2006, the Government decided to withdraw the travel support provided under the policy,
which is expected to result in a savings of about 10 percent of the OVT budget or
US$ 133,000 (WST$400,000) annually. This was not however, a recommendation of the
draft policy for containing costs, which focused on tightening the eligibility and selection
criteria, an integrated information system, single point management responsibility,
alternate treatment options and greater focus on prevention. An OVT Coordinator has
recently been appointed by the Government for full implementation of the policy. It could
be argued that changes in the OVT Policy could result in an economic benefit equal to the
difference in treatment and transportation costs between in-country service costs and cost


1The number of outpatient visits at hospitals and health centers together has remained more or less the
same at about 200,000 per year from 2001-2005.




                                                    21

of treatment outside the country, assuming comparable quality. The Government has
recently withdrawn travel support previously provided to those seeking treatment abroad,
but there is no data at this time to estimate demand elasticity or difference in treatment
costs.

Cost of delivering in-patient care. At the time of appraisal, a savings of $279,000 per
year was estimated from year 3 of the project, based on a one day reduction in the
average length of stay (ALOS), a 10 percent reduction in the daily cost of providing
services, and a daily cost of WST$75 per patient. A cost accounting study for TTMH was
conducted under the project to provide a basis for a rate setting system for the hospital.
However, this was a one-time effort and no cost data is available after the refurbishment
of TTMH funded under the project which was only completed in the project's fifth year.
The ALOS from the Ministry's HMIS was steady from year 1 to 5 at around 4 days. As a
result, it is not possible to know if any savings resulted from the refurbishment of TTMH
or to estimate the magnitude of the savings.

Cost of delivering outpatient care. It was expected at appraisal that improved services at
health centers and the implementation of a referral system would result in efficiency
gains in outpatient care as more patients received treatment at the lower levels of the
system where service delivery costs are lower. According to data from the NHAs,
outpatient visits at rural health facilities have steadily decreased, from 50,883 in 2002/03
to 45,170 in 2003/04 and 43,151 in 2004/05.            The refurbishment of selected rural
facilities was only completed at the very end of the project. The refurbishment could
potentially reverse the decreasing trend, but it is not possible to calculate the resultant
savings

The rate of return calculated at the time of appraisal was based on savings estimated to
accrue from as early as year 2 of the project. Project benefits were estimated to accrue
only for 10 years after the date of project approval. For these and the reasons cited above,
recalculation of the net project benefits is not meaningful at this stage. Moreover, this is
clearly an extremely limited way of evaluating the returns. The potential savings from
reforming the user fees system based on the policy review, which includes full cost
recovery from the National Provident Fund (WST $75) and introducing a social insurance
system, is very large. The revised OVT policy could also potentially generate much
higher savings than originally estimated. However the implementation of the policies is
dependent on the Government's will and it is difficult to predict the timing and extent of
the reform that is likely to take place. Similarly, increases in efficiency at the TTMH and
in referral services could also potentially generate significant savings. A number of
benefits that are not easily monetized also accrued from the project: The benefits from
the Health Care Waste Management component is one such example. Other effects
include impacts from improved regulation of health care, allocation of greater resources
to primary and preventive health care services and improved capacity at the Ministry of
Health for policy development and program management.




                                               22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Rekha Menon              Sr. Health Economist                EASHD Task Team Leader
Carol Ball               Sr. Operations Officer              EASHD Procurement
Rosario Aristorenas      Assistant                           EASHD Project Costing/Adm
Karin Nordlander         Legal Counsel                       LEGEA Project Lawyer
John Malmborg            Consultant                         ECSHD Facilities Planning
Christopher Scarf        Consultant                         EASHD Health Planning
Supervision/ICR
Rekha Menon              Sr. Health Economist               EASHD Task Team Leader
Muhammad Ali Pate        Sr. Health Specialist              EASHD Task Team Leader
Jayshree Balachander     Sr. Human Development Specialist EASHD ICR Author
Carol Chen Ball          Sr Operations Off.                 EASHD Procurement
Natasha Beschorner       Senior ICT Policy Specialist        CITPO M&E
Christopher Scarf        Consultant                         EASHD Health Planning

David Michael Chandler   Sr Financial Management Specialist EAPCO    Financial
                                                                     Management
David Evans              Health Specialist                  EASHD Health Care
Reem Hafez               Junior Professional Associate      EASHD ICR Research
John Malmborg            Consultant                         ECSHD Facilities Planning
Alfred P. Picardi        Consultant                         EASHD Health Care




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  10.50
  FY00                                        39                       168.78
  FY01                                         8                        53.98
  FY02                                                                  -0.09
  FY03                                                                   2.72
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:                47                       235.89




                                           23

Supervision/ICR
 FY99                                 0.00
 FY00                                 1.16
 FY01                          8     46.98
 FY02                         14    103.65
 FY03                         11     69.66
 FY04                         11    105.89
 FY05                         12     78.09
 FY06                         14     82.12
 FY07                         12     46.14
                   Total:     82    533.69




                            24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The main objectives of the survey were:
     To assess the socio-economic conditions and health status of the population;
     To assess how much health care systems are used by the population;
     To determine the level of health expenditures not only by government and private
        organizations but also by the households and individuals for various health care
        services particularly consultation fees, medication, transportation, etc;
     To determine the main sources of funds for health care in the country;
Achieving these objectives would help to provide the basis for appropriate policy
measures and to inform planners and health care providers about the level of health care
utilization and expenditure in Samoa.

In selecting the sample, a list of villages based on the Population Census 2001 was
divided further into enumeration areas (EA) with relevant households. The list of villages
in sampled EA was divided into clusters ensuring that each cluster would provide
adequate numbers of eligible respondents to be included in the survey. The EA and their
total number of households were listed geographically by urban and rural areas. Where
EAs did not include the minimum number of households, then geographically adjacent
EAs were amalgamated to yield sufficient households. This provided the frame for
selecting the clusters to be included in the survey according to a stratified sampling
technique in which the probability for the selection of any cluster was proportional to its
size. A sampling interval was calculated by dividing the total number of households by
the number of clusters. A random number between 1 and the sampling interval was
computer generated. The EA in which the random number fell was identified as the first
selected cluster. The sampling interval was applied to that number and then progressively
until the 5 (urban) and 10 (rural) clusters were identified. These clusters made up the
sample for the survey.

About 52 percent of the total survey population was males (95,479) and 48 percent was
females (88,579). More than three-quarters (79%) resided in the rural and the rest (21%)
lived the urban area.     The survey revealed that more than 81 percent of the total
population of Samoa had ever attended school in their lifetime in which 47 percent have
completed education at the primary level, 45 percent have completed secondary level
while only 9 percent have attained tertiary education during their lifetime.

a.      Demographic profile of persons with chronic illnesses

Chronic illness (CI) was defined in the survey as any form of illnesses, diseases or
injuries, which had been prolonged or continuous for more than three months without
cure, and could be in critical condition or otherwise.

The aim was to find out the types of CI people had been suffering at the time of the
survey, how much it had cost them to treat these chronic illnesses or injuries and where
they have obtained funding for financing their medical care.


                                             25

Table 1. Population with Chronic Illness by types of CI, 2005
                                    Percent                                   Percent
    Chronic Illness Frequency (%)              Chronic Illness      Frequency (%)
1   Diabetes           2619         32      17 Nerve pains          48        1
2   Hypertension       1946         23      18 Birth Related        25        0
3   Heart Problems 738              9       19 TB                   23        0
4   Gout/Arthritis     632          8       20 Mumu Tutupa          33        0
5   Asthma             554          7       21 Sight Problems       31        0
6   Disability         331          4       22 Bleeding             26        0
7   Stroke             238          3       23 Back pains           13        0
8   Epilepsy           225          3       24 Dialysis             25        0
9   Stomach pains      184          2       25 AIDS                 13        0
10 Cancer              63           1       26 Body pains           14        0
11 Kidney pains        50           1       27 Appendicitis         14        0
    Hearing
12 Problems            49           1       28 Skin diseases        25        0
13 Injury              64           1       29 Down Syndrome 13               0
14 Lung Problems       103          1       30 Obesity              10        0
                                               Total Chronic
15 Skin Related        110          1          Illness              8,288     100
                                               Missing/Not
16 Head pains          69           1          Applicable           175769
                                               Total Population 184056

 The results showed that a total of 8,288 persons (5 percent) had been living with chronic
 illnesses at the time of the survey. However, only 6,336 persons or 76 percent sought
 treatment and the rest did not in the four weeks prior to the survey. Diabetes and
 hypertension comprised more than half of the chronic population while heart, gout and
 asthma consisted about one quarter of this population. As expected almost half of the
 chronic population were aged 60 and over and about 2 out of every 10 chronic persons
 were aged less than 40 years.

 Information by sex distribution reveals that females mostly dominated diabetes and
 hypertension while gout/arthritis was mainly significant for males as well as all other
 chronic illnesses. This indicated that females were more likely to suffer from non-
 communicable diseases especially diabetes and hypertension than males.

 The survey asked each respondent about the conditions of their chronic illnesses whether
 it was critical, not fully well or manageable. The results showed that about one-fifth of
 males as well as females were in critical conditions and more than thirty percent each
 were not feeling very ill. The rest reported that their conditions were manageable which
 maybe be prevented or cured with controlled health care.




                                             26

The survey revealed that three-quarters of those who did not seek treatment did not like
to be treated. It is to be noted that about 12 percent of them were treated at home with
available medicine, traditional herbs and home visits by medical personnel. Two percent
felt that treatment was no longer useful for them while eight percent reported having
financial limitations.

The overall data showed that the Total health costs for one visit by the chronic population
was $239,333 tala in the month prior to the survey. The estimated error for this estimate
was 7 percent as shown in the table below.

                      Table 2: Total Costs of Chronic illness by consultation, medication

                                 transportation and other equipment, 2005

Financial costs        Sample Weighted            Total             SE Total     RSE          95% CI
                        size      size                                           (%) Lower & Upper Limits
Consultation            531       6336     $    57,505.69         $ 9,179.47      0.16 ($48,326 - $66,685)
Medication              531       6336     $    66,303.78         $ 5,890.64      0.09   ($60,416- $72,194)
Transportation          531       6336     $ 103,380.38           $ 7,358.66      0.07 ($96,022 - $11,739)
Other Equipment          19       237*     $    12,142.68         $ 3,765.48      0.31   ($8,377 - $15,908)


                                                                 $ 17,215.7
ALL Costs               531       6336     $    239,332.53 8                      0.07 ($222,117 - $256,548)


Almost half of the total expenses for the last visitation by the chronic population for
treatments were spent on transportation costs. A total of 28 percent was spent on
medication and 24 percent on consultation costs. Other equipments required only 5
percent of the total health expenses.

For consultation costs about 95 percent of this item was paid by the families or
households. In the medication costs, households paid 80 percent while pensioners paid 18
percent. As expected, households paid almost 100 percent of transportation costs.

Acute Illness

The survey results showed that a total of 8,722 persons or about 5 percent of the total
population were found temporarily ill or sick 4 weeks prior to the survey. Hence, if both
chronic and recently sick people were added together then this would make up a total of
10 percent sick people at the time of the survey.

For the Recently sick population only 70 percent (6,130) sought treatment while 30
percent (2,592) did not seek any form of treatment. Of those who did not seek treatment, 63
percent felt that they were not seriously ill and about one-quarter found treatment at home. The
others had financial problems and a few reported distances from a medical facility as a reason.

Of those who did seek treatment, more than 40 percent of the RI population went to TTM for
medical care. Note that public hospitals are still the most used facilities but it is also interesting to
see that 7 percent preferred to seek traditional treatment at the Taulasea or Traditional healers.



                                                   27

The flu virus seems to be the most common illness with 56 percent. The survey also
found that 5 percent of illnesses were injuries either due to accidents, sports or negligence.
The island of Savaii had the most people with temporary illness 4 weeks prior to the
survey with 32 percent then followed by the Apia urban region with 24 percent.

The overall data showed that the Total health costs paid for recent illnesses and
injuries were $265,051 tala in the last visit made 4 weeks prior to the survey. The
relative standard errors are also listed accordingly.

                Table 9: Total Costs of Recent illness & injuries by consultation, medication

                                transportation and other equipment, 2005

Financial costs SampleWeighted          Total              SE Total         RSE             95% CI
                  size   size                                               (%)      Lower & Upper Limits
Consultation      513    6130    $    53,683.71       $     10,542.68        0.20     ($43,141 - $64,226)
Medication        513    6130    $ 114,911.44         $     19,957.50        0.17    ($94,954 - $134,869)
Transportation    513    6130    $    94,540.16       $       9053.25        0.10    ($85,487 - $103,593)
Other Equipment   11     132     $      1916.04       $        853.46        0.45     ($1063 ­ $2769.95)
ALL Costs         513    5886    $ 265,051.36 $              29,753.55 0.11          ($197,762 - $308,371)


Medication was the most expensive item for people who had recent illness as it accounted
for 43 percent of the total costs paid. Transportation made up 36 percent of the total cost
while 20 percent was paid for Consultations. The overall Average cost that was paid by
an RI person was $43.24 for all the four items in their last visit. This had a relative
standard error of 10 percent. It also revealed that Medication had the highest average cost
of $18.75 while Consultation had the least cost of $8.76 cents.

For consultation costs about 97 percent of this item was paid by the families or
households. In the medication costs, households also paid 97 percent while pensioners
paid 3 percent. As expected, households paid almost 100 percent of transportation costs.
It must be noted that other sources of funds also contributed but only to a lesser extent.

Profile of hospitalized persons or in-patients

The survey showed that a total of 4,325 persons or about 2.3 percent of the total
population reported their latest admission during the 12 months prior to the survey. Out
of this total, 83 percent reported being admitted once, 11 percent were admitted twice and
the others were admitted more than 3 times. Forty percent of the last admissions made
constituted of birth deliveries while 37 percent mentioned they were in critical conditions
meaning they were very sick from all sorts of sicknesses. A total of 7 percent were
admitted for unspecified operations and the other 7 percent were due to injuries.

The places of admissions in Figure 30 revealed that about two-third or 62 percent of the
inpatients were admitted at the main hospital at Motootua with 16 percent at MTII at
Savaii. It is also interesting to see that 11 percent had been admitted at Traditional
healers' residences for health care.



                                                    28

The overall data showed that the Total health cost for admitted patients was $615,146
tala. The estimated relative standard error for the Total costs of IP was 15 percent as
shown in the table below.

                    Table 16: Total Costs of Admissions by consultation, medication

                              transportation and other equipments, 2005

Financial costs SampleWeighted           Total               SE Total        RSE         95% CI
                  size   size                                                 (%) Lower & Upper Limits
Consultation      364    4325 $       228,744.66        $    44,620.08        0.20($184,125 - $273,365)
Medication        364    4325 $       265,406.55        $    44,889.18        0.17 (220,517 - $314,296)
Transportation    364    4325 $       114,660.41        $      8,981.52       0.08($105,679 - $123,642)
Other Equipments 20*     232* $           6,335.25      $       2513.45       0.40   ($3,822 - $8848)
ALL Costs         364    4325   $        615,146.87$            91,963.02 0.15($523,184 - $707,110)

The highest health cost for IP was Medication with 43 percent followed by Consultation
fees with 37 percent. The overall Average cost that was paid by any IP person was
$142.22 for the latest admission he had with a relative standard error of 14 percent.
For consultation costs about 89 percent of this item was paid by the families or
households. In the medication costs, households paid 88 percent while other relatives
and pensioners paid 7 and 4 percent respectively. As expected, households paid almost
100 percent of transportation costs.

The survey captured the smoking population specifically those 10 years and over both in
the urban and rural villages of Samoa. The results revealed that 19 percent (24,553) of the
total population 10 years and over were smokers and it is as high in the urban area as it is
in the rural areas.




                                                  29

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Introduction

This Report has been put together with two primary objectives, namely:

        To review the implementation of the World Bank funded Samoa Health
        Sector Management Project, in order to ensure that the project objectives
        were met and to highlight positive actions so that these could be repeated
        and knowledge applied in other projects in Samoa.
        To look at lessons learnt in order to ensure that mistakes are not repeated
        but rather corrected for other such projects in Samoa.

The consultant has taken a positive view in undertaking this work and understands
that this project was the first loan based project in the Ministry of Health and was
managed fully by local staff who met both Government's as well as World Bank
criteria through full compliance with both Government and World Bank
procedures. It is also noted that the Cabinet Development Committee (CDC) has
encouraged the MoH to replicate lessons learnt from this project when
implementing future projects especially considering the continuation to Stage II.

2. Background:

The Samoa Health Sector Management Project (SHSMP) is a World Bank funded project
with the purpose of strengthening the capacity of the MOH to develop and implement
appropriate health policies and legislation, and to improve the functional and technical
quality of health facilities, within the Government of Samoa's health sector reform
strategy. The project commenced in October 2000 and was due to be completed in
March 2006. The completion date was extended to 31 December 2006 due to delays in
implementation of Component B of the Project (Quality Improvement) relating to the
construction of the three Rural District Hospitals (RDHs).

In the Year 2000, the Government of Samoa received a Credit of SDR 3.8 million
(equivalent to USD 5.0 million) for the implementation of the Samoa Health Sector
Management Project (SHSMP). The project was approved by the Board on September
14th 2000 and became effective on November 15, 2000 with a Closing Date of March 31,
2006.

The mid-term review (MTR) was originally scheduled for October 31, 2003. This
Project is the first IDA-financed project to be implemented by the Department of Health
(DOH), now renamed Ministry of Health (MOH), and it has required an extended period
of learning for the implementing agency and its project management team to acquire
necessary management and implementation capacity.

The Government of Samoa has launched a Health Sector Reform program, and its overall
goal is to ensure that the population of Samoa has equitable access to modern, effective,


                                             30

efficient and environmentally friendly health service, planned and delivered through
close collaboration with the private sector and NGOs. In order to encourage their efforts,
this Project aimed at strengthening the capacity of the MOH to develop and implement
appropriate health policies, legislation, and regulation, and improving the functional and
technical quality of health facilities, within the health sector reform strategy.

   The project has three following components:

    A. Institutional Strengthening

       A-1      Strengthening Policy Framework
       A-2      Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation
       A-3      Support for Communication and Introduction of Policies and Legislation

    B. Quality Improvement

       B-1      Improving Facilities Planning
       B-2      Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure
       B-3      Developing a Health Care Waste Management System

    C. Project Management and Coordination


The project was a large scale, multi-focused project that included:

    · Major Capital Works Redevelopment and Equipment Procurement Program
    · Health Care Financing and Resource Allocation (based on National Health
       Accounts)
    · Development of Appropriate Policy and Legislation
    · Services Planning
    · Health Care Waste Management
    · Community Consultation and Participation

3. Sources of Data

Internal Project Reports: Project inputs, activities and outputs were monitored using
internal project reports.

4. Terms of Reference
1. To investigate project progress and achievements with the set performance indicators
in terms of outputs and outcomes for all components and activities.
2. Review project performance indicators as related to original Development Objectives
(Dos).

3. Assess implementation of each project component and sub-component and quantify the
real impact of the inputs from (i.e. Refurbishment, trainings, procurement of goods,
HCW Management, health bill reviews, etc.)
4. Assess the hindering factors on financial, technical, and institutional sustainability of
project activities.


                                               31

5. Identify "good practices" and lessons learnt as well assessing the risks and assumptions
on which the project design was based.
6. Ensure that capacity building in M&E for appropriate MOH staff is developed and
established by the end of the consultancy term.

5. Outputs:

        (i)      Provide the ministry with the Project ICR, which needs to be reviewed
                and approved both by MOH and MOF; and the World Bank.
        (ii)     Build M&E capacity of MOH staff through training.
        (iii)   Provide exit brief to be signed off by the Project Director upon the
                recommendation of the Project Management Team (PMT).

6. Methodology
Reviewed Internal Project Reports: Project inputs, activities and outputs were monitored
using internal project reports. Held discussions with various members of the MOH,
Management Team, Contractors, and Public Officials. Carry out sight inspection of
facilities and Waste management Plant at the Tafaigata landfill.

7. Project performance indicators:
Key Performance indicators were successfully met with close assistance and guidance/
supervision of the World Bank. Timeliness and milestones were achieved and these were
by no means without difficulties due to capacity and a number of obstacles faced by the
Ministry from time to time during the implementation stage of the project.

                                        ----------------

8. COMPONENT A: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Overall performance of the component was satisfactory. The implementation of this
component was highly dependent on the assistance and contribution by the consultant
(Osmat Azzam) in finalizing policy documents, and assessing of results of the household
survey and the Medisave scheme due to limited capacity of the MoH. A number of
policy documents, and legislations were developed under this component. A notable
achievement of this component was the preparation of the National Health Accounts for
the first time for Samoa, and a first for the region.

Other important policy documents developed included Health Care Financing Policies
and Resources Allocation, Financing for Rural Health Services, Household Survey and
Overseas Treatment Policy. In addition to the above twelve legislations prepared, three
legislations have been passed by Parliament with five others in the process of being
passed by Parliament in its sitting in December 2006 and January 2007.

The MoH will translate the documents/outputs produced under this component into
policies / action, and the integration of the policies into the current system of the Ministry
on a timely basis is crucial. Most of the policies have been implemented others are in the
process of being finalized and will be put into use by the Ministry/National Health



                                               32

Services. Government approved of the separation of the MoH and the National Health
Services (NHS), as effective from 1st July 2006.

                                        -----------------

9. COMPONENT B: QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Implementation of Component B was somewhat disappointing from the point of view of
the Bank and the Ministry mainly because of circumstances beyond their control. The
inability of the Ministry to both establish the facilities planning capacity within and to
maintain an expatriate recruited for the PCAM job, resulted in the dependence at large on
overseas technical assistance in implementing facilities planning.

A first extension for the project was sought and approved by the Bank in order to
complete this component, and the Rural Facilities were finally completed in December
2006. The main focus of this component are: (i) sub-component B1 ­ Improving
Facilities Planning;      (ii)   sub-component B2 ­ Improving the Quality of Key
Infrastructure; and       (iii) sub-component B3, Developing a Health Care Waste
Management System.

10. Component B1: Improving Facilities Planning
The Maintenance of Facilities and Equipment Policy and Strategy Paper 2006-2010 has
been endorsed and completed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) before the split of the
two entities. With the separation, the Facilities Maintenance Team is now operating
under the NHS Corporate Services Division. As noted by the CDC, the Policy and
Strategy Paper emphasises the need for a centralised and adequately staffed maintenance
unit with capacity to properly plan, and implement equipment and facilities maintenance.
Proposed to be managed by a Structural / Civil Engineer, the Maintenance Facility is
tasked with ensuring that the Health Sector is to have sustained improvement in the
quality of its infrastructure for services delivery.


11.     Component B2: Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure

     (i) Refurbishment of the TTM Hospital:
The civil works to refurbish sections of the TTM Hospital have been completed. The
defects liability period for the contractors expired in May 2006 for the Outpatients &
Emergency Department and the Maternity Ward, and December 5th, for the Operations
Theatres (OT). The Contractors Performance indicated lack of capacity in the private
sector in that the contractor was unable to complete the full scope of works until hundred
sixty (160) days after the approved extended completion date (June 28, 2005). The
contractor encountered difficulties in rectifying identified defects within the timeframe;
employed inadequate staffing level and skills mix; and had a very fragile financial
position,

The following positive aspects of the TTM refurbishment works nevertheless have been
noted:



                                               33

        (i)    according to the clinicians interviewed, the refurbishment carried out by
               the project has contributed to improving the work environment for the
               health workers using the operating room, outpatients department and
               maternity ward (obstetrics and gynaecology inpatient unit);
        (ii)   The design for the refurbishment works were closely dialogued with the
               end users to ensure that refurbishments were in line with what they
               required, for better work flow and to meet their standards
        (ii)   there is evidence that following the renovations of the operating theatres,
               post-operative infections rate has declined; and
        (iii)  Work flow in both the operating theatres and the outpatients unit have
               improved.




(ii) Refurbishment of Rural District Hospitals: (Aleipata, Poutasi, Safotu Rural Districts
Hospitals (RDH's)



A lot of delays were experienced due to a number of reasons beyond the control of the
project and the Ministry. The constructions of the three rural facilities were visited on 18
October 2006 for Lalomanu and Poutasi. The Safotu facility was visited on 26 October
2006. During the site visits it was noted that the Lalomanu contract was behind by
approximately two weeks and the Poutasi was on schedule. Subsequent discussions with
the project team indicated that all rural district hospitals will be completed on time.

Government issued its approval on June 22, 2006 to the bid evaluation reports and draft
contracts for the replacement of the three rural health facilities construction. The World
Bank provided their no objection on June 26, 2006 to the contact awards for the
construction of two health facilities (Safotu and Lalomanu) by ALcc, and early July
approved the awarding of the replacement contract of the Poutasi RDH to Ah Liki
Construction.    With the additional funds available from project savings, additional
features were added as variations to the construction contracts -: provision of vinyl and
ceramic tiles as well as silent stand-by generators for all three RDHs.

Work under this component has also had challenges of its own. The supervision works
which were carried out both by Kramer Group and the Project Management Team on
separate occasions, are lessons learnt for MOH and NHS especially in strengthening
capacity-building. With the Policy Paper for the Maintenance of Facilities & Equipment
in place, implementation of guidelines and strategies will be a challenge for NHS in the
future with its limited financial resources. One noticeable achievement under this sub
component is the marked improvement of safety and health standards for the contractors.




                                              34

12. Component B3: Development of a Health Care Waste Management System

Upgrading of the Water waste Treatment Plant (WWTP), upgrading of the Incinerator
Facility at the Tafaigata landfill, labeling of health care waste (HCW) color-coded bins
and finalization of the HCW Management Policy; have all been completed.               The
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the WWTP is also completed, and has been
commended on by the ministry and the Bank as well.

Between March and April, 2006 the MOH carried out consultations with local
stakeholders on the HCW Management Plan, which is now being implemented.
Guidelines for training health workers have been developed and equipment including
color-coded storage containers and two (2) trucks were procured under the project. The
HCW Manager position has been absorbed into the Preventive Health Services Division
of the MOH.

Health care wastes from rural facilities in both Upolu and Savaii are being routinely
collected and transported to the dumpsite and incinerated. Plans are already underway to
strengthen the staffing of the office responsible for environmental health, especially the
unit responsible for the waste management system. The MOH also under the HCW
Management Policy has also been encouraged to expand the scope of health care waste
collection to the private health sector providers, under a user pay arrangement.
                                      ---------------------

13. COMPONENT C: Project Management and Coordination
The project has provided a number of short term training for various MOH personnel
(from senior staff to ACEO level); including in house training by the consultant (Osmat)
for the National Health Accounts (NHA) team members, as well as training on
Monitoring and Evaluation. The challenge for the Ministry is to retain its trained staff to
ensure the sustainability of the project activities after project closure. Good practices
which have been noted with the project is that the MOH senior staff who have been
involved with the project have established a culture of urgency and completing tasks on a
timely manner. Although many of the staff are relatively new to the idea of working
under pressure and with minimum guidance and supervision most, if not all of them have
demonstrated the willingness to learn and absorb new ideas and methods of handling a
variety of tasks. With the completion of the three rural facilities, the Project would
thereby have completed all that was required of, under the Project.

14. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank ­ Lending
Performance was satisfactory. Because Samoa is a small country with limited resources,
it was necessary to identify a project with related components in order to make it a
worthwhile size and with maximum benefits for the population and to ensure they were
consistent with the Government and the Bank strategies for the country. The joint team
delivered a well balanced project, focusing on the sound management of the Health
Sector Institutional Strengthening as its core and including a component on Quality



                                              35

Improvement. The project also supported Governments efforts to restructure and reform
the Health Sector which emphasized institutional and policy changes to encourage public
sector reform.

Supervision
The Bank supervised the project closely and jointly with the MoH. It was noted though
that it would have been good for reasons of consistency, that the Bank had a same team
leader throughout the term of the project. On the average, two supervision missions were
undertaken each year. The Quality Improvement component (B.2) needed extension of
time for implementation and the Bank was very understanding and helpful in the process
for extension of time.

Overall Bank Performance
Overall performance by the Bank was highly satisfactory.           Through paying close
attention to detail in the preparation and supervision of the project, giving excellent
support during implementation and maintaining close relationship with MoH and the
Government. The outcome of this small, though complex project; was very successful.

15. Borrower Performance
Preparation and Implementation:
The Government was actively involved in the preparation of the project as is in line with
the objectives of its Statement of Economic Strategy (SES) in its long-term strategy.
The project design whilst meeting the criteria of the project is considered ambitious
considering the capacity of available personnel, and the time frame of the project. There
has been some inconsistencies in the design in that linkages between component A and B
were not clearly evident from the view point of the project management team, in
particular the linkage between the rural health financing and the services planning. This
problem only came to light during the mid term review. Appropriate measures were taken
by the Bank and MoH to resolve this matter.

The rural financing plan and the services plan were developed to guide the capital
investment decisions by the MOH, in the effective allocation of its resources. These
documents provided good framework in the formalizing and approval of the documents,
which were developed only towards the closure of the project.

The linkage between the rural financing plan and the services plan is vital in determining
the appropriate services that should be provided and financed by various stakeholders,
particularly government in order to justify the capital investment.

16. Preparation by MOH
The Ministry of Health underestimated the impact the project will have on its capacity
and resources in the implementation stages of the project. The project design and
preparation for the project was carried out to a large extent by the management of the
MoH in close consultation with the World Bank. One of the challenges was the change
in the CEO and the ACEO Corporate Services in 2005, with the new management
keeping the momentum going which saw the successful completion of the project. It



                                             36

must be kept in mind that this project was one of the three major projects that were
undertaken at the same time, and coordinated through the then Health Resource Planning
and Information Division (HRPIRD) of the Ministry. This stretched out the human
resource capacity of the Division, which at the same time was going through a capacity
building exercise.

The Project and the Ministry of Health (MOH) would have been in a better position in
implementing the project if the following were considered from the outset of the project.

    (i)      Appoint a steering committee to oversee the implementation of the project.
    (ii)     Appoint an independent chairperson for the steering committee.
    (iii)    Establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) with a Project Director.
    (iv)     Counterpart positions from the Ministry of Health identified before project
             implementation.

Overall Performance of the MOH
The overall performance is satisfactory. It is believed that the development objectives of
the project have been achieved. In some areas the implementation may be slow but as
this is the first major project of its nature undertaken by the Ministry it is understandable
as this is also being used as a capacity building exercise for most of the personnel
involved with the Ministry.

17. Hindering Factors Affecting the Project
The following are some of the factors which affected the timely implementation of the
project:-

    · Timeliness of appointment of Capital Assets Manager. The consultant appointed
         for this position did not stay long enough to be effective and the MoH did not
         have a counterpart for this position. As a result a position had to be created, and
         the appointee needed to be up skilled.
    · The project had also faced the problem of staff retention due to pressure and long
         working hours.
    · As this is the first World Bank Project to be implemented by the MoH, it was
         important for management to obtain full support and commitment as well as
         working as a team for the success of the project.
    · There was also limited capacity in the private sector to carry out the construction
         and refurbishing works, and to provide the necessary equipment needed. This was
         demonstrated by the fact that only one Construction Company submitted a bid, for
         the Turnkey Contract.
    · The World Bank and the Tender's Board procurement requirements were also a
         challenge, which the team had to comply with in so far as the tendering process
         and the awarding of contracts were concerned.




                                               37

18. Good practices" and lessons learnt the risks and assumptions on which the project
     design was based.

 The Ministry of Health experience shows that sector reform can be introduced smoothly
 when the timing is right ­ in this case, alignment of a national reform agenda, sector
 political will, committed executive leader, comprehensive consultations, and a well sound
 design plan. Prominent attention needs to be paid to staff retention, skills and experience
 needed to implement projects of this nature. This is a significant risk that needs to be
 addressed.

 Good practices which have been noted with the project is that the MOH senior staff who
 have been involved with the project have established a culture of urgency and completing
 tasks on a timely manner. Although many of the staff are relatively new to the idea of
 working under pressure and with minimum guidance and supervision most, if not all of
 them have demonstrated the willingness to learn and absorb new ideas and methods of
 handling variety of tasks.

 The introduction of the National Health Accounts (NHA) is one of the most important
 achievements of the project. The training and exposure received by the MOH staff in the
 preparation of the NHA is invaluable as it is noted that Samoa is the first Pacific Island
 Nation to use the NHA. The establishment of the Services Planning and Human
 Resources Plan work documents as well as the Health Care Financing Plan and Rural
 Finance Planning will all contribute to the enhancement of the Sector Plan if these are
 integrated as policies by the Ministry.

 Wider consultations, representations and dissemination of information between
 management and senior staff, and eventually to the whole staff of the MOH have been on
 going efforts by the Project Management Team. Unfortunately the importance of this
 process was only realized at a later stage of the project as a result of changes in
 Management, attitudes and their awareness of the importance of their contribution to the
 success of the project.

 The ability of the MOH in translating many of the project outputs into key performance
 indicators is crucial. The underling assumption that improved facilities and services in
 rural areas will ease the burden on TTM and MTII Hospitals will only materialize if the
 NHS can provide the doctors to man those facilities. The other undeniable risk is the
 ability of the NHS to convince MOF in allowing sufficient funds to carry out its
 maintenance program, not only for the project funded facilities and equipment but also
 for maintenance of all facilities and equipment. The availability of the maintenance plan
 will assist in strengthening the MOH's argument for additional funds during the up
 coming budget review 2006/2007.

 The main challenge faced by the MOH, NHS and government as a whole in providing
 quality health services for Samoa; is basically "too many facilities, not sufficient staff,
 and inadequate financial resources". It is difficult to attract and retain sufficient staff to



                                              38

provide the level of services expected by the public. At least under the SHSMP, the
MOH/NHS has boosted the morale of the general public in utilizing the new rural
facilities, and commitment of staff to work and improve their new working environments.




                                            39

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments were requested from the Embassy of Japan, NZAID and AUSAid. So far,
none has been received.




                                      40

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

PID, June 26, 2000
PAD, August 24, 2000
Development Credit Agreement, September 26, 2000
MOU signed April 4, 2001
Project Implementation Plan
Economic Analysis for PAD
Report on a monitoring and evaluation plan for the Health Sector Management Project by
Richard Cibulskis
PHRD grant proposal
TF agreement, September 26, 2000
Aide Memoire for project launch November 9-17, 2000
Aide Memoire October 24-November 12, 2001
Aide Memoire April 20-26, 2002
Aide Memoire November 4-8, 2002
Aide Memoire May 4-8, 2003
Aide Memoire November 24-December 2, 2003
Aide Memoire for mid-term review May 25-June 10, 2004
Aide Memoire 13-21, 2005
Aide Memoire November 27-December 3, 2005
Aide Memoire June 19-26, 2006
Aide Memoire November 27-December 3, 2006
Draft Aide Memoire April 16-24, 2007
14 ISRs from 10/17/2000 to 12/27/2006
Quarterly Progress Reports and Project Management Reports
Yearly audit reports
Position paper on vulnerable groups in Samoa
Financing of public health programs
Financing of rural health facilities
The Samoa National Health Service planning framework
Rural health services plan
Urban health services plan
SHSMP ­ Clinical services plan for TTM hospital
The Samoa national health services plan
Framework for monitoring and evaluating the impact of health sector reforms on
vulnerable groups in Samoa
Household Survey 2000
Household Survey 2005
Borrower ICR
Health Sector Strategic Plan 1998-2003
Health Sector Plan 2004-2008
Health Sector Strategic Plan 2008-2018




                                          41

                                                                                     172°30'W                                                                    172°00'W                                                          SAMOA

                                                                                                 SOUTH                      PACIFIC                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                 OCEAN                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                       SAMOA                                          MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                           S a v a i ' i                                            Fagamalo
                                                                                                         Safotu

                                                                                                                           Mauga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           172°30'W

             13°30'S             Falealupo                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13°30'S
                                                                   Asau
                    Tufutafoe
                                       VAISIGANO                                        A'opo
                                                                        GAGAIFOMAUGA                          GAGA'EMAUGA

                                       Taga                                             Mt. Silisili                                    Pu'apu'a
                                                                                        (1,857 m)
                                              SATUPA'ITEA
                                                             Samata           T u                                           FA'ASALELE'AGA
                                                                                   as iv i     R  i     dg e        PALAULI                Faga

                                                                                      PALAULI
                                                                                                                                           Safotulafai
                                                                            Sala'ilua

                                                                                                                                        Salelologa
                                                                                                                     Fa'a'ala     Maota                                                     GAGA'EMAUGA
                                                                                                               Papa

                                                                                    Taga
                                                                                                                              Tafua       Strait                               Sale'imoa         Fale'ula           U p o l u
                                                                                                             SATUPA'ITEA          Apolima          Apolima        Leulumoega                             APIA
                                                                                                                                                        Mulifanua
                                                                                                                                              Manono                                                             Lauli'i
                                                                                                                                       AIGA-I-LE-TAI                 A'ANA            Aleisa                                Solosolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Falefa
                                                                                                                                                       Samatau      Falelatai
                                                                                                                                                                                           TAUMASAGA                                         VA'A-OFONOTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mt. Fito
                                                                                                                                                                 Falease'ela                                    (1,115 m)

                                                                                                                                                                                            Sataoauta                 ATUA                Uafato
                                                                                                                                                                       Matautu                                                                      Ti'avea

             14°00'S                                                                                                                                                                                     Si'umu                                             Samusu14  °00'S
                                                                                                                                                        GAGA'EMAUGA                                                Poutasi                                      Fanuatapu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Namu'a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lotofaga                    Lalomanu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nu'utele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nu'ulua


                                                                                                SOUTH                      PACIFIC
                                                                                                                OCEAN
JANUAR                                                                                                                                                                                      0      5     10    15 Kilometers                                                IBRD
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                   33472
      Y       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
       2005   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                              0           5       10          15 Miles
              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                          172°30'W                                                                    172°00'W                                                                  172°30'W

