Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 20573-WSO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION(US$5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
FORA
HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
August 24, 2000
Human Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 4, 2000)
Currency Unit = Samoan Tala (WST)
WST 1.00 = US$ 0.33
US$ 1.00 = WST 3.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID    Australian Agency for Intemational Development
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DOH        Department of Health
EAP        East Asia and Pacific Region
FMS        Financial Management System
HACC       Health Aid Coordination Committee
HCW        Health Care Waste
HIS        Health Information Systems
HNP        Health, Nutrition, and Population
HRPIRD    Health Resource Planning, Information, Research and Development Division
IAMP       Infrastructure and Asset Management Project
IAPSO      Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
ILO        International Labor Organization
IMF        International Monetary Fund
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
NHA        National Health Accounts
NZODA    New Zealand Overseas Development Assistance
OED        Operations Evaluation Department
OPED       Outpatients and Emergency Department
PCC        Project Coordination Committee
PMT        Project Management Team
PWD        Public Works Department
QER        Quality Enhancement Review
SES        Statement of Economic Strategy
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TTM        Tupua Tamasese Meaole
WHO        World Health Organization
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Manager/Director:    Alan Ruby, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Rekha Menon, EASHD



SAMOA
HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A.. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          15
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Environmental                                                                      20
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                               25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           28
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary and Social Assessment                              41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangementsand Financial Management                53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             67
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                         69
MAP(S)
IBRD 29258



SAMOA
Health Sector Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: August 24, 2000                             Team Leader: Rekha Menon
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: P064926                               Sector(s): HfY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan         M Credit       l Grant          El Guarantee   EO Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee:                                        Service charge: 0.75%
Flnancing Plan.    Sorc                                     -La           FPren            Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      1.07           0.00          1.07
IDA                                                             1.93           3.07          5.00
Total:                                                          3.00           3.07          6.07
Borrower: INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
Responsible agency: EXECUTED BY TREASURY DEPT.; IMPLEMENTED BY DEPT. OF HEALTH
Address: Samoa Health Sector Management Project
Departnent of Health
Private Mail Bag
Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Ms.Frances Brebner, Director, HRPIRD
Tel: (685) 21212 X 417               Fax: (685) 23483                Email: brebner@samoa.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY.US$M):
FY          2001         22          2003        2004        2005        2006
Annual     0.5           1.0          1.0        1.0         1.0          0.5
Cumulative     0.5          1.5          2.5         3.5         4.5         5.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  03/31/2006
CrS PAD Fo-n Fbv M."t, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Government of Samoa has embarked on a Health Sector Reform program. The overall goal of the
reform is to ensure, for the population of Samoa, equitable access to a modem, effective, efficient and
environmentally friendly health service, planned and delivered through close collaboration with the private
sector and non-governmental organizations.
The objective of the Health Sector Management project is to strengthen the capacity of the Department of
Health to develop and implement appropriate health policies, legislation and regulation, and to improve the
functional and technical quality of health facilities, within the health sector reform strategy.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in achievement of the project objective would be assessed using the following key indicators:
*   Increased percentage of Department of Health revenues derived from non-government sources
*   Increased percentage of Department of Health resources allocated to primary and preventive health
care
*   Reduced percentage of public sector health budget used for overseas treatment
*   Increased bed-occupancy rate by ward, reduced average length of stay in selected departments and
increased bed turnover rate in hospitals
*   Increased access to inpatient services at hospitals for patients from rural areas of Upolu and Savaii
*   Increased monthly outpatient visits to health centers
*   Increased proportion of population satisfied with health system
To monitor the social impact of the project on disadvantaged groups, the last two indicators will be
monitored separately for those identified as disadvantaged groups. Baselines will be developed during the
first few months of the project and targets will be defined according to the schedule in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20370 - EAP              Date of latest CAS discussion: 5/2000
The project has been developed within (a) the Bank's Pacific regional strategy, (b) the Bank's and East Asia
and Pacific region's (EAP) Health, Nutrition and Population (HNP) sector strategies and (c) the
Government's Statement of Economic Strategy (SES) and sector strategy.
The project supports the Bank's regional strategy for its Pacific Member Countries including Samoa, which
aims to build human capital, policies, institutions, and infrastructure needed to bring about equitable and
sustainable growth. The goal of the regional strategy is to reduce disparities within countries and to
promote equitable access to the benefits of development through focused lending particularly in the social
sectors, education and health. By assisting Samoa improve the health outcomes of the poor, enhance the
performance of its health system and secure sustainable health care financing, the project's strategic
objectives are also aligned with the Bank's overall and the EAP region's HNP sector strategies.
The overarching framework for economic and social development in Samoa is set by the government's SES
"Partnership for a Prosperous Society", which aims to achieve sustained economic growth through an
-2-



active and competitive private sector and sets a high priority on the health sector. The Strategy, first
announced in January 1996, has been updated on three occasions, with the 2000-01 SES published in
January 2000. The project supports the health specific strategies included in the SES which are aimed at
achieving sustainable improvements in the health of the Samoan population including developing a
partnership with the private sector, and strengthening health sector management and planning.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Samoan Health Sector. Several organizations manage, finance and provide health care services in
Samoa: the Department of Health, Treasury, Public Service Commission, Department of Internal Affairs,
Department of Education, the donor community, NGOs, traditional healers, and increasingly the private
sector. Currently, the Public Service Commission recruits and manages human resources, while with the
introduction of output-based budgeting in 1996, the Department of Health has been delegated much
flexibility in the planning and management of its financial resources. The Department of Health through 5
hospitals, 12 health centers and 15 sub-centers is the major provider and financier of health services. The
private sector, NGO's, women's committees and traditional healers each have a small role in health care.
The private sector in Samoa consists of a 21-bed hospital, five medical clinics, two dental clinics and two
pharmacies, all in the capital city of Apia. Private clinics have no laboratory or surgical facilities and
patients are referred to the private hospital, Government facilities, or overseas hospitals for further
treatment. Complicated public and private tertiary care patients are usually referred to New Zealand.
There are four main sources of health care financing in Samoa - the Government, external donors, NGO's
and the users themselves. Public finances are generated from taxation (68-83 percent), external grants
from donors (14-27 percent), and user co-payments and fees (3-5 percent). Samoa does not have a
National Health Accounts system to provide information by the source of funds and type of service, and
there is little information on private health expenditures.
Main Sector Issues. Over the past several decades, Samoa has vastly improved the health status of its
population by providing basic health services. Now, the infant mortality rate is 23 per 1,000 live births,
under-five mortality rate is 27 per 1,000 live births, maternal mortality ratio is 14 per 100,000 live births
and the average life expectancy is 70 years for males and 74 years for females. These achievements are the
result of what could be considered a first stage in the reform of the Samoan health system, which consisted
of building a framework for improving resource use by drafting a National Health Sector Strategic Plan;
upgrading of clinical facilities and equipment; establishing a national health information system; and,
improving service delivery in rural areas by providing outreach and home-based services through
community nurses. Now the challenge for the Samoan Government is to sustain and deepen past
achievements.  The Government has already embarked on a praiseworthy path of health sector
development, and has been successful in controlling most communicable diseases through immunization
programs and targeted public health programs. It has achieved success in providing geographical access to
health services to its population. However, there are several trends and challenges that make the Samoan
health system fragile.
Disease patterns are changing. Samoan society is undergoing a transformation. Some old health
problems remain and new ones are emerging. More people are suffering from non-communicable and
lifestyle-related diseases such as cancer, hypertension and diabetes which are chronic and more costly to
treat. Some communicable diseases persist, such as rheumatic fever, lower respiratory tract infections,
dengue fever and typhoid.
-3-



The role of the government in the health sector is changing. In the past, the Samoan Government
achieved success through pursuing equity in geographical access to health services for all but now it needs
to focus on improving health service delivery and health financing, setting national policies plus monitoring
and regulating the health sector. The Department of Health's role is changing; it is now responsible for the
planning and management of operational budgets and under the national public service reform it will soon
be responsible for planning and management of human resources. Private health care will expand in the
future but for now it remains unregulated and could decrease the availability of health personnel in the
public sector, equitable access to quality services and generation of revenue for the public health system.
The current incentive structure works against an efficient, high quality health service. Because health
facility budgets are centrally managed, hospital managers have little incentive to contain health care costs.
Because physicians are salaried workers and have no standard treatment protocols to follow, they have
little incentive to contain costs while providing effective care. Because patients bear only a small portion of
the costs of health care, they have little incentive to rationalize their use of health services. Because
personnel are poorly managed, it is difficult to attract and maintain good staff. As a result, many trained
people leave the country to seek better paid jobs and the staff who remain are not always used properly.
For example, doctors with no management training are given management responsibility with little
administrative support. These factors combined impinge on the quality, efficiency, and responsivenessof
public health care and as a result, most health facilities are underutilized. For example, the bed occupancy
rate at the Tupua Tamasese Meaole (TTM) Hospital, the national referral hospital, is 56 percent, despite
the fact that it accounts for more than 75 percent of all inpatient admissions in the country. Meanwhile,
transportation and roads have improved that Samoans now usually bypass rural health facilities to seek
primary health care services directly from urban hospitals.
Priority areas lack adequate funds and costs are projected to rise. Government expenditure on health is
rising but external aid, which covers most capital and some important recurrent expenditures has been
fluctuating over the past five years. Past donor investments sometimes create recurrent costs that drain the
Government's scarce resources. Public resource allocation is inefficient - Government policy favors
cost-effective preventive services but the bulk of public resources are directed towards less cost-effective
hospital services. Furthermore, more Samoans are suffering from chronic diseases such as cancer which
require costly technologies, and a large portion of the government's health budget is spent on overseas care.
Private health insurance which is already available in Samoa can improve access to and quality of health
services, but it can also raise health care costs.
Government strategy. Recognizing these challenges, the Government of Samoa has developed a Health
Sector Strategic Plan which aims for a continued increase in access to care, improved quality and a more
effective interaction between the private and the public sector. The five year (1998 - 2003) Health Sector
Strategic Plan defines sector priorities reflecting the Government's Statements of Economic Strategy and
includes all relevant regional and international health concepts, conventions and agreements. The Strategic
Plan is guided by the principles of quality, equity, and sustainability. The strategy aims to improve quality
and efficiency of health services by adjusting the number and type of health facilities and personnel in the
public sector to match current health needs; reallocating resources to more cost-effective interventions that
improve overall health status, and, improving health sector management.
To achieve these objectives, the Department of Health in consultation with key stakeholders, has developed
a broad program of reform across three priority aeas. These are:
1. Institutional strengthening: The priority focuses on strengthening the Department of Health's capacity
to develop and undertake institutional reforms to achieve Government's economic and public sector
reforms.
-4 -



2. Primary health care/ health promotion: This priority is proposed to address existing key primary
health care needs and health promotion strategies in Samoa.
3. Quality improvement: This priority addresses needs for improvement of services and health facilities
to attain an overall improvement in the quality of health services.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed by the project. A review of the sector conducted by the World Bank in 1997/98
in conjunction with the Department of Health recommended that to address the prevailing sector issues
described above, the Government needs to: (i) redefine its role in the sector, (ii) strengthen its public health
programs, (iii) improve efficiency in the delivery of public services and (iv) ensure equitable and efficient
use of health finances. The project will initiate activities to address key priority issues.
Redefining the role of the Government. The project will strengthen the capacity of the Department of
Health to perform its role as a strategic planner, regulator, monitor and evaluator of the sector.
Improving efficiency and quality of public health services. Through technical support and training it will
build capacity to develop masterplans, standards and norms, equipment standardization, and maintenance
programs for buildings and equipment for all health facilities. It will increase operational efficiency of
existing health facilities and promote rationalization of rural health facilities to improve service range and
eliminate excess capacity.
Ensure equitable and efficient use of health finances. It will help the Departrnent develop a coherent
public investment strategy based on expected demand and utilization of services plus sources and arnount
of available funds. Defining which services should be included in a benefits package for public financing
will help to prioritize public expenditure and ensure rational use of public funds. It will identify new
sources of health financing and implement a health financing scheme.
Strategic Choices. The Department of Health's reform agenda described above aims to meet the key
challenges in the sector by redefining its role in the sector, strengthen its public health programs, improving
efficiency in the delivery of public services and ensuring equitable and efficient use of health finances. To
support its reform agenda, the Department has enlisted the assistance of its various development partners.
It has identified the prospective roles of each development partner in the reform process as expressed in the
Government's Letter of Sector Policy in Annex 11. The project is an integral part of the Govemment's
reformn program, contributing to the institutional strengthening and quality improvement components.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The health sector reform strategy of the Government of Samoa has three components - institutional
strengthening; primary health care/health promotion; and quality improvement. The Health Sector
Management Project will support the institutional strengthening and quality improvement components of
the sector reform strategy. A third component of the project will comprise the management, coordination
and support activities of the project. The components of the project are described below:
Component A. Institutional Strengthening: The project will support three elements of the Institutional
Strengthening component of the Samoa health sector reform.  These are: 1) Strengthening Policy
-5 -



Framework, 2) Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation, and 3) Support for Communication
and Introduction of Policies and Legislation.
Al. StrenLthening Policy Framework: This sub-component will support the review, development and
implementation of policies which define the funding and overall allocation of resources to health services
and the planning of health services. In funding and resource allocation, it will strengthen the capacity of
the Department of Health to: (i) plan resource needs for the sector; (ii) identify existing and new sources of
funding and allocate responsibilities for their use for primary health care, preventive and clinical services;
(iii) improve collection of revenues within the Department of Health generally, and specifically within the
facilities delivering the services; and (iv) improve the management of public expenditures for overseas care.
In planning, it will strengthen the capacity of the Department to: (i) refine its service delivery policies; (ii)
develop service plans for urban and rural centers and for individual clinical services; (iii) develop plans and
targets for overseas delivery of care; and (iv) plan the nature and extent of private sector delivery of
publicly funded services. Funding and planning will be undertaken in parallel with each other as well as
work in human resource planning and other relevant activities of the government's reform program. These
will be achieved through technical support, capacity building, studies and extensive consultations with key
stakeholders aend beneficiaries.
A2. Strengthenin! Health Care Legislation and Regulation: Through technical support to the
Department of Health and the Attorney General's Office for drafting health legislation and extensive
stakeholder consultations, the project will strengthen the existing health legislation and regulations for
current and emerging activities and policies. The completed works will include draft bills for consideration
by Cabinet and Parliament. In addition, following appropriate consultation with government, professions
and private provider representatives, and consumer representatives, draft regulations will be prepared under
the relevant acts to cover the provision and supervision of public health services and private health services
including private insurance, clinical practice, hospitals and other private health institutions.
A3. Support for Communication and Introduction of Policies and Legislation: Through capacity
building and technical support, the project will assist the Department of Health develop and implement a
communication and consultation strategy on its health reform agenda including training in participatory
processes for health staff at the local level, advice to and consultations with key stakeholders and the public
regarding progress in project components. Through operational and evaluation studies and surveys, it will
support continued preparation, evaluation and monitoring of progress in the health sector reform program
and its impact on disadvantaged/vulnerable groups. A policy and legislation register will be introduced and
maintained.
Component B. Quality Improvement:  The project will support four elements of the Quality
Improvement component of the Samoa health sector reform. These are: 1) Improving Facilities Planning,
2) Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure, and 3) Developing a Health Care Waste Management System.
These activities will be undertaken in conjunction with and as a part of the implementation of the
institutional strengthening component with facilities planning and infrastructure improvement, based on
services and resource planning, waste management meeting legislature and resource requirements and
innovative grants supporting services and human resources planning and providing impetus for policy
development.
Bl. Improving Facilities Planning: The project will support the Department in its effort to prepare a
health sector investment master plan (including equipment and maintenance plans) in accordance with the
services strategy and hospital and health center roles, which will guide the future development of public
sector health facilities.  It will also develop institutional and human resource capacity within the
Department to plan, manage and maintain capital assets.
-6-



B2. Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure: The project will provide financing for structural and
equipment investments identified in the health sector investment master plan as the highest priority to
improve the operational efficiency of the TTM hospital. It will also rehabilitate and equip selected rural
health centers based on standards developed under the masterplan.
B3. Developing a Health Care Waste Manageement System: The project will assist the Department of
Health in the development and implementation of an efficient and cost-effective health care waste
management system based on international guidelines for safe disposal of medical waste. The project will
fund technical support to review and if necessary revise the current health care waste management policy
and regulation and to develop operational and management procedures for waste disposal in public health
facilities. It will also finance a hospital waste incinerator and related civil works, vehicles and supplies for
health care waste disposal, staff training and related administrative expenses.
Component C. Project Management and Coordination
This component includes the operation of the Project Management Team (PMT) which will provide project
support functions, including financial and procurement management, and liaison with implementing units in
the Department of Health. The project will fund project management consultants, travel, training and other
administrative expenses.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    finarning   Bank-
_U_   . Total    (US$M)  financing
A. Institutional Strengthening     Institutional                   0.0                 0.0
Development
1. Strengthening Policy Framework                    0.82       13.5      0.71       14.2
2. Strengthening Health Care                          0.13       2.1       0.09       1.8
Legislation and Regulation
3. Support for Communication and                      0.47       7.7       0.36       7.2
Introduction of Policies and
Legislation
B. Quality Improvement             Health                         0.0                  0.0
1. Improving Facilities Planning                     0.28        4.6      0.26        5.2
2. Improving Quality of Key                           3.54      58.3       2.96      59.2
Infrastructure
3. Developing a Health Care                           0.41       6.8       0.31       6.2
Waste Management System
0.42       6.9      0.31        6.2
C. Project Management and
Coordination
Total Project Costs                    6.07      100.0      5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    6.07      100.0      5.00      100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key institutional reformns which will have an impact on and are supported by the project:
*   Devolution of central agency controls upon human resource management and finance to line
departments
*   Defining the role of the govemment in (i) financing and delivery health services, and (ii) legislating
and regulation the health sector
The main objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of the Department of Health in reviewing,
developing and implementing policy reforms. The key policy reforms supported by the project are:
*   Targeting public resources towards preventive and primary health care services
*   Operationalizing a revised user charge policy
*   Operationalizing a revised overseas treatment policy
*   Revising health legislation to include regulation of private sector and private institutions
*   Developing and implementing a communication and community participation strategy
*   Developing a services strategy for the health sector
-   Basing future investment in the public health sector on the services strategy and the facilities and
equipment masterplan
-   Developing and operationalizing a national clinical waste management policy
3. Benefits and target population:
By encouraging efficiency and improving quality, the project will benefit all stakeholders. The whole
Samoan population will benefit from the improved quality of services and the development of appropriate
health policies, legislation and regulations. The health sector investment strategy based on a masterplan
will result in better use of overall resources - Samoans can expect to have access to facilities with services
that better match their needs and which are more efficient in terms of the functional flow.
Target population:
Health Sector Stakeholders: The project will build the capacity of the personnel within the Department of
Health to: (i) develop, introduce, implement, monitor and communicate policies; and, (ii) plan, manage, and
monitor implementation of capital investmnent projects. It will also encourage increased participation of
NGOs, women's committees and the private sector in health sector policy development, provision and
financing.
Disadvantaged groups. The project does not specifically target the poor. However, populations which are
disadvantaged or most vulnerable to poverty will be identified from analysis of survey data and stakeholder
consultations and systems will be established to ensure that these populations share in the benefits of the
project and in particular, to monitor that policies developed under the project do not adversely impact them.
- 8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Oversight.  Since the project is part of a comprehensive reform program, the Performance
Budgeting and Strategic Planning Committee whose members represent the Department of Health, Public
Service Commission, the Treasury, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will be reactivated as a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) and will be the inter-ministerial steering committee responsible for
developing and implementing a coordinated reform strategy for the health sector. The membership of this
committee is being increased to involve the private sector, women's committees and other non-governmental
organizations. The PCC, chaired by the Director General of Health, will meet once a month for the first
year of the project and then at least once every quarter to address issues of sequencing, overlap, conflict in
philosophy, duplication and use of resources of all health sector donor programs. Distinct from the PCC, a
Health Aid Coordination Committee (HACC) comprising senior Department of Health executives, has been
established within the Department of Health, with Health Resource Planning, Information, Research and
Development (HRPIRD) Division acting as Secretariat. The HACC meets once a month to monitor
implementation progress and review implementation issues related to all health projects. The Director,
HRPIRD, is also the Project Counterpart, and will report on progress in project activities during HACC
and PCC meetings.
Coordination of Reform Activities. While the objectives and main strategies for each component have been
identified, the scope of the activities funded by the project will depend on availability of support from other
agencies. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Samoa, AusAID, WHO and the
World Bank will guide cooperation and coordination of activities of these organizations within the reform
program. The PCC meeting held each year in March/April will be used for in-country consultations among
major development partners to review annual plans, confirm the availability of funding and technical
assistance for the following fiscal year and resolve any potential disputes. The PCC meeting in
September/October each year will review the half-year progress of the reform activities and suggest
changes if needed.
Project Implementation, Management and Coordination. The project will be implemented over a 5 year
period, with a mid termn review in the middle of year three. It will be implemented by the Department of
Health. The Director, HRPIRD who is the Project Counterpart and the Director, Corporate Services, both
members of the HACC, will have overall joint-responsibility for implementation of the project. Day-to-day
coordination and management of the project will be supported by a Project Management Team (PMT)
comprising of a Project Coordinator, Project Accountant, Project Implementation Officer and a Project
Administrative Assistant. The PMT will report to the Project Counterpart, work closely with the Treasury
Department and will be responsible for the administration of financial management and procurement. It
will also provide administrative support to the relevant implementing units of the Department of Health (see
Figure 1 below). Given the reform nature of the project, the PMT via the Project Counterpart, will be
responsible for bringing key policy issues to the PCC and the HACC for their approval and elaboration.
Project Procurement and Disbursements. (see details in Annex 6)
Financial Management. The Financial Management System (FMS) plan for the project has been prepared
after analysis of project needs and assessment of the experience of the IDA supported Infrastructure and
Asset Management Project (IAMP) in Samoa.  It consists of accounting, financial reporting and
disbursement procedures, which are in line with the current Government system (details in Annex 6). The
FMS will be managed by the Project Accountant based in the Directorate of Corporate Services, with
additional outside technical support for monthly tasks such as reconciliation and preparation of
consolidated reports. The system will be fully established by Board Approval date in line with the
-9-



requirements of OP 10.02. Annual work plans and budget estimates will be provided to the Treasury
Department for the allocation of counterpart funds. With respect to financial management, the PMT will
also be responsible for project procurement and the authorization of project expenditures.
Figure 1: Project Oversight, Management and Implementation
Policy
Policy           PCC ( PROJECT COORDINATION COMMItTEE)
-        ~          chaired by the Director General, DOH and represented by the Department of Health, Public Service
Cornmission, the Treasury, and Ministy of Foreign Affairs and other stakeholders
a.
Coordination             HACC (HEALTH AID COORDINATION COMMlTrEE)
10       Chaired by the Director Clinical Services, include senior DOH executives
e ",to
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
Headed by Project Counterpart (Director, HRPIRD)  Liaises with  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Joint responsibility of Director, HRPIRD and Director,
Project Coordinator, Project Implementation Officer, Project         Corporate Services
Accountant and Project Administrative Assistant
The PMT will maintain project accounting records for each source of funding and for all activities. All
relevant supporting documents will be kept for annual audit and random inspection by Bank missions. The
computerized accounting system used by the IAMP, which is designed to generate monthly, quarterly and
annual accounts statements in the formats required by IDA for inclusion in the monthly reports and
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR), will be customized to suit the health project's needs. The
Project Accountant will provide financial project accounts on a quarterly basis, and integrate these reports
into the semi-annual progress reports of the project. The Treasury Department will be responsible for
supervision over the procurement/disbursement and financial progress of the loan and the operation and
replenishment of the Special Account for the IDA Credit.
The annual audit will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA based on the project
accounts submitted by the PMT. The process of selection of the independent auditor will be subject to
compliance with the Government's own internal processes. Such audits include cover the Special Account
and the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The audit reports will be submitted to IDA each year, within six
months after the fiscal year's closing date.
Project Monitoring. Monitoring and evaluation of the project will be coordinated by HRPIRD Division in
Department of Health. The Project Coordinator, based in HRPIRD, will assume primary responsibility for
systematic semi-annual monitoring of inputs, activities and outputs, drawing on information supplied from
the project Financial Management System and component managers. The responsibility for assembling and
reporting statistics on health sector expenditure and utilization rests with relevant sections within HRPIRD
- 1 0 -



(staff working on National Health Accounts and the Health Information Systems). Semi-annual progress
reports and other supporting documentation will be reviewed by the Director, HRPIRD and made available
to the PCC and the HACC. The implementation status of each component will be reviewed at the quarterly
meetings of the PCC, and schedules and scopes will be adjusted as necessary and in line with progress in
the activities of other donor programs in the sector. An annual implementation review of project status, in
the third quarter of each fiscal year, will include information on: (i) output and impact indicators; (ii)
evaluation reports of background studies and pilots; and, (iii) results of baseline, mid-term and final
evaluation where appropriate. An early implementation review will be held around twelve months after
project effectiveness.
Much of the initial phase of the project focuses on policy development including background studies on
National Health Accounts, costs of delivering services, review of legislation and regulation and
development of service and facility plans. Progress in conducting these studies, dissemination of results
and consultation with stakeholders will be monitored using internal project reports. A standard format for
reporting progress using internal reports on a semi-annual basis has been drafted and baselines are being
developed for all key performance indicators. Revised policies are likely to emerge and be implemented
around the mid-point of the project. The impact of revised policies will be monitored using routine
information systems operated by Department of Health and other sources (including the Health Information
System, household surveys and financial monitoring systems such as national health accounts, budget
tracking and fee collection systems).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(i) Maintain status quo. The sector issues facing the Government of Samoa indicate that to sustain its
past achievements, reforms such as those supported under the project are necessary.  The Government
spends over 12%/o of its budget on health. Despite this, increasing costs of treatment both within the country
and overseas have impaired the Government's ability to provide quality services for all Samoans. The
existing user fee structure discourages use of health centers. This is because cost of outpatient care at the
health center level is higher than that at the hospital level, since additional fees levied by women's
committees raise fees at the local level. Hence, people bypass health centers to receive outpatient care at
hospitals. While current per capita utilization of health services remain low, increasing prevalence of
non-communicable diseases will inevitably lead to an increased demand. Hospital utilization data suggest
that while current bed supply is adequate, the distribution of beds by specialty does not fit well with the
pattern of demand. Maintaining status quo therefore will exacerbate the inefficiencies in the health care
delivery system.
(ii) Sector Wide Approach.  While the project supports a sector wide reforrn program, activities
supported by each donor will remain separate under different projects but coordinated under the various
mechanisms already described elsewhere in this document. This was considered appropriate given the
different requirements of the various donors and their varying implementation periods.
(iii) Activities planned under the project have been altered since identification by availability of funds
from other donors. The following areas which were previously considered for support under the project
will now be supported under other donor programs: (i) Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) will provide technical support for strengthening the management capacity and building routine
maintenance capacity within the Department of Health and (ii) the women's health program, will be
supported by WHO through a safe motherhood initiative. Conversely, the upgrading/rehabilitation of the
- 11 -



TTM Hospital which was previously covered under the AusAID project design will now be supported by
this project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The World Bank has no previous projects in the sector.
:If;;::                     f i   ?    :: ;Xi t  ;000   f0Sf 0Latest Supervision
Sector Isse  6                    Prjerolect                (R  Ratings
______________________________      ________:__I_C____X_____     (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Other development agencies
AusAID:
Health inforrnation systems        Health Information Systems
development                        completed July 1999, Phase II
proposed
Improve sector management,         Samoa Health Project-
partnerships with other organizations,  proposed
service standards and prevention of
non-communicable diseases
Bio-medical equipment maintenance    Regional Biomedical
Equipment Project (ongoing)
European Union:
Improve water and sanitation
arrangements in rural health facilities   EU Microprojects (ongoing)
France:
Renovation, refurbishment and      Renovation of Orthopedic Ward
provision of equipment for orthopedic  (ongoing)
ward
NZODA:
Development of a comprehensive     Child Youth Health Project
child/adolescent health policy     (ongoing)
Overseas treatment for services not    Medical Treatment Scheme
available in Samoa                 (ongoing)
WHO:
Promote healthy lifestyles, healthy  Building Healthy Communities
schools and health education for at risk  and Population (ongoing)
groups
Improved training of health        Human Resource Development
professionals                      (ongoing)
Development of a comprehensive drug  Essential Drugs and Vaccines
policy                             Project (ongoing)
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This is the first project in the health sector in Samoa to be supported by the World Bank. However, lessons
from health and other projects in comparable countries and from infrastructure and other donor projects in
the country include the following:
Strategic lending as an instrument of policy dialogue: An OED report on the Bank's lending in the
Pacific in the 1980s identified that Bank projects had not been guided by any well conceived strategy
and did not make use of project lending as an instrument of policy dialogue. This project has been
developed within the Pacific regional strategy, the Bank and EAP HNP strategy, the Govemment's SES
and sector strategy and policy development is an intrinsic part of its design.
Quality at entry: Assessments of the quality at entry of Bank projects prepared in 1999 show that
three areas remain problematic: poverty and social impact analysis, risk analysis and monitoring and
evaluation. Poverty and social impact analysis and a framework for monitoring and evaluation for the
project were developed with assistance from technical experts. During pre-appraisal, the risks and
other anticipated barriers to project success were identified in consultation with key departments and
other stakeholders. Some of these were addressed in the project design while others will be mitigated
by careful implementation and good management and control systems within the project. Suggestions
from a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) were also incorporated in the project design.
Institutional capacity: Institutional strengthening projects are complex and require extensive capacity
building support. Further allowance must be made for limited capacity in project implementation and
application of Bank requirements must be realistic with sufficient support for meeting Bank
safeguards, financial management requirements and project supervision. To improve relevance of
training provided to suit country needs, training provided will be action-based. Most technical
consultants hired by the project will be required to train their counterparts especially in the areas of
policy development and analysis and health sector planning as part of their contract.
Stakeholder consultations: Particular consideration should be given to the role of communities in
Samoa through full involvement of communities in project preparation and implementation to ensure
that the project is socially sustainable. This need is being addressed through broad participation in
project preparation and implementation, as detailed elsewhere in this document.
Monitoring and Supervision The experience of the projects in the Pacific clearly demonstrates the
direct relationship between intensified supervision and implementation progress. The supervision needs
of the project have been identified and costed.
Donor Coordination: Donor coordination should be maintained throughout project implementation,
particularly with regard to procurement planning, policy, common implementation constraints, and
project restructuring. Given the project's envisioned role in advancing the country's health sector
reform agenda, ongoing coordinations will take place within the frarnework of the Memorandum of
Understanding and the twice yearly donor meetings.
Inter-Dependence of Components: Since the ability of the quality improvement component to
achieve its objectives is dependent on the success of the institutional strengthening component,
particular attention will be given to: (a) timing of activities in one component relative to those in the
other; (b) relative levels of capacity; and (c) susceptibility of each component to risks relative to the
other. Given the comprehensive, integrated nature of this project, failure in one component would
hinder the others.
- 13 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Samoa has given high priority to the health sector in its economic strategies and
provides a significant share of the national budget to cover health expenditures. The Department of Health
developed its National Health Sector Strategic Plan which provides strategic guidance to its reform
program with no external support. In May 1999, the Government initiated a donor conference in health
where it outlined its reform program and enlisted the support of its major development partners. Since
then, the Government has developed a clear vision for the reform program as is elaborated in the Letter of
Sector Policy (Annex 11) which clearly delineates the roles and responsibilities of each development
partner in the reform process. Support for the reformn by all donors is being coordinated under this reform
framework.
To ensure smooth implementation of the reform and to avoid duplication, the Government has established
inter-ministerial (PCC) and departmental structures (HACC) to ensure that it continues to remain in the
driver's seat during the reform process. It has also initiated a Memorandum of Understanding which clearly
outlines the principles and mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration between the main partners in the
reform program. The Project Coordinator, Project Implementation Officer and the Project Administrative
assistant have been hired. The position of the Project Accountant has been advertised and is expected to be
filled by appraisal.
Further, several aspects of the project have already begun prior to project appraisal. A draft services
strategy was prepared by a services planning technical committee with the assistance of an international
consultant. The first National Health Accounts (NHA) of Samoa is already underway. This is being
prepared by Department of Health staff with oversight from a NHA Steering Committee comprising of
senior Department of Health and Treasury directors.
In addition, the project and the contribution of other donors in support of the reform program are already
listed in the Government's development budget.  Counterpart funds for the first year of project
implementation have already been earmarked for this purpose in the next fiscal year budget estimates and
approved by Parliament.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The main value added of Bank support is the linkage of the IDA supported project to broader economic and
public sector reforms. Samoa has been very successful in the implementation of its public sector reform
program since its inception in 1996. A main element of the public sector reform program is the devolution
of central agency controls on financial and personnel management from the Treasury and Public Service
Commission to line ministries. The Department of Health is one of the six line ministries piloting this
reform. The project will build capacity within the Department to undertake its new responsibilities.
Other value added of Bank support is:
*   partnership with the Project Coordination Committee members (then Performance Budgeting and
Strategic Planning Committee) developed during the policy dialogue with the Government leading
to the preparation of the "Samoa Health Sector Review, Meeting the Challenges of Development."
*   access to international technical experts to work with the formulation of the Samoa's reform
program.
*   capacity for securing commitments from other donors to provide funding as well as technical
assistance to support the formulation and implementation of the reform program.
- 14 -



o   ability to look at the country from the macroeconomic perspective and bring in other relevant
developing and developed country experience.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV-US$1.52 million; ERR = 27 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O O)ther (specify)
The economic analysis is based on a stream of benefits and costs estimated over a ten-year period. Only
selected, quantifiable aspects of the project benefits were considered. The quantifiable benefits of the
project include: (i) reduced costs of providing services through improved referral structures and operational
efficiency of TTM hospital, (ii) increased revenue from user fees as a result of improved collection and a
revised user fee structure and (iii) savings due to improved management of public expenditures for overseas
care. Other benefits such as environmental benefits from an improved clinical waste management system,
the influence of better health status on labor force productivity, indirect effects through better school
performance etc. were not calculated due to lack of available data. Using conservative estimates about the
proposed benefits of the projects (which included only part of the quantifiable benefits of the project), the
present value of net benefits is around US$1.52 million with an economic rate of return of over 25 percent.
If the Net Present Value (NPV) is calculated at a 5 percent discount rate (instead of 10 percent above), the
present value of net benefits is US$2.26 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 1.12 million; FRR= 21 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Government's fiscal situation: The Samoan economy experienced serious problems in the early 1990s
mainly because of a taro leaf blight, financial crisis in the government-owned airline and two cyclones in
1991 and 1993. The economy has gradually recovered from the shocks of early 1990s. Even though real
GDP growth peeked at 6.8% and 6.1% at 1995 and 1996, it has stabilized around 4% in recent years and
inflation has remained low. The Government's fiscal position is now sound with a small budget surplus
being achieved in each of the last three years.
Increased taxes as a result of the proiect and counterpart funds: The project will incur at least
US$543,000 in taxes and duties. In Samoa, all goods and services except training are subject to a value
added tax of 10% while all goods procured from overseas have import duties of 20%. The counterpart
funds required for the project have been calculated keeping these in mind. The Government will therefore
finance at least 17% of total project costs. The counterpart funds for the first year have already been
allocated in the Government's FY01 budget.
Increased recurrent costs. The incremental recurrent costs of this project are expected to be small. An
important portion of project funds are allocated to rehabilitation and re-equipping of the TTM hospital and
rural health care facilities. Since these health care facilities already exist and have a maintenance budget, it
is assumed that the incremental recurrent costs of maintaining them will be close to zero. In fact, since old
health facilities will be refurbished and modernized under the project, the maintenance costs of newly
refurbished facilities will be very low especially during the first ten years, reducing overall maintenance
costs. The amount of medical equipment purchased (under component B2) follows an increasing trend over
- 15 -



the project cycle to arnount for a total of US$976,000. During and beyond the project period, maintenance
of equipment will require between I - 3 % (assuming maintenance is between 10 - 30% of equipment costs)
of the recurrent health budget. In addition, an ongoing AusAID biomedical equipment project will provide
spare parts for all medical euipment at health facilities, thus lowering maintenance costs. Maintenance
funds required to sustain rehabilitation efforts during the project period will be less than 0.5 percent of the
annual allocated maintenance budget and can be sustained well beyond project completion. It is estimated
that the building maintenance funds required will be 0.03 percent, 0.11 percent, 0.21 percent, 0.43 percent,
0.53 percent and around 0.51 percent of the annual allocated maintenance budget during the project period.
For the five years following project completion, the maintenance funds are estimated to correspond to 0.53
percent of the annual allocated maintenance budget.
Improved cost recovery: The project aims to improve retention of user fees and identify new sources for
financing health expenditures. Several scenarios of improved cost recovery were examined in the economic
analysis. It is estimated that as a result of the project, at best revenues amounting to 12% of the costs of
providing services will be recovered. These amounts are still very small and not likely to result in major
changes in health care demand. In addition, most vulnerable age groups (less than 5 years old and more
than 65 years old) and the disadvantaged will have access to free health care. Despite these arguments,
however, health care demand behavior of various groups will be analyzed (using household survey data) to
mitigate any adverse impact on the access to health services.
3. Technical:
All policy reforms proposed under the project will be based on exhaustive analysis of the current situation
by national and international experts. International experience, in particular, experience of countries with
similar settings and health problems, will guide the development of policies and the project will include
action-based training adapted to local conditions. New policy reforms will be tested through properly
designed and monitored pilot studies prior to implementation. All medical equipment purchased under the
project will be based on international standards. Technical specifications for equipment will be decided in
collaboration with experts from AusAID's biomedical equipment maintenance project to ensure that
medical equipment maintenance training provided under the ongoing AusAID project are for the types of
equipment purchased under the IDA supported project.
The investment costs of the project are based on June 2000 prices. The costs of rehabilitation of health
facilities were derived from space estimates and unit costs. A physical contingency of 10% has been
applied to base costs for civil works and goods and of 5% for all training. The total costs have also
accounted for the country's value-added tax (of 10%) and the its import duties (of 20%) to correctly
estimate the amount of project costs to be financed by the Government. To provide for inflation during
project implementation, price contingencies have been applied to the base cost for all components based on
local inflation and foreign exchange predictions of the IMF.
- 16 -



4. Institutional:
An assessment of the institutions and organizations involved in the project was conducted. The findings
indicate that in general, most of the requisite structures and mechanisms for the implementation of the
project within the health reform process are in place. There exists at present clarity in the vision,
principles, values and objectives of the reform among senior executives in the Department of Health. What
is required is to extend this knowledge and build consensus on these issues among all health personnel.
There is also a need to improve the cohesiveness, effectiveness and efficiency of management structures
and processes within the Department of Health to ensure a more efficient and effective implementation of
health policy reforms. The challenge will be coordinating, linking and integrating the old system with new
systems and policies into a cohesive management system for the Department of Health, and a more
comprehensive coalition between the private and public sectors in the reformed health care system.
Success of the health sector reform and the health sector management project in particular, will depend on
the stability in leadership, technically competent staff, and support from top government leadership, the
Treasury and Public Services Commission, as well as application of relevant lessons from other countries.
The complexity of the environment in which the policy reforms will be implemented necessitates the
identification of coherent organizational structures distributing the roles and functions for the policy
process. Organizational charts displaying the roles of different groups and their inter-connections are
important first steps. To a large extent, the human resource element is also available barring the absence of
epidemiological, information analysis and health system research capability and capacity. These skills are
essential to the reform process and the project, and efforts will be made to recruit these skills either
immediately or in the near future.
The following table summarizes the interventions proposed to address the institutional weaknesses
identified.
- 17 -



INSTITUTION/AREA   INSTITUTIONAL WEAKNESS                     PROPOSED INTERVENTION
Department of Health    *   Lack of understanding of the goals   *   Senior DoH executives within HACC should clarify and
and vision of health reforms among    build consensus on the vision, principles, values and
peripheral staff in the DoH           objectives of the health sector reforms with staff in their
*   Need for cohesiveness,                 divisions
effectiveness and efficiency in the    *   New management system to be developed under
implementation of health sector       AusAID project should coordinate, link and integrate
reform activities                      new policies with existing policies and systems
Project oversight      *   Roles and responsibilities of      *   Clear ToRs for HACC and PCC have been developed
committees                  existing committees and           *   Mechanisms to improve coordination among committees
mechanisms of coordination need       to be introduced.
to be clarified.                  *   Roles, functions and structures of oversight committees
*   Project management team belong to      to be communicated to all key stakeholders in the health
many other committees and are         reform process and the project during consultation
therefore overwhelmed and             meetings
ineffective
*   Lack of coordination of activities
Institutional Capacity
Leadership in     *   Leadership not clearly established    *   Involve MoH in project and get him to own and lead
policy reforms    *   Political risk of Govemment's           policy refomis.
and                    political timetable for policy reform   *   Structure for communicating reforms mutually agreed by
communications         priorities differs from that of the   the MoH and DGoH to be identified and developed.
Department and the project        *   Document and clearly map out roles, functions and
structures for policy process and key players - to be
done under the proposed situation analysis of policy by
WHO.
*   Capacity of the DGoH, HACC, HRPIRD to provide
policy advice to the MoH strengthened.
*   Enhance capacity of HRPIRD to provide technical and
administrative support by providing it with pertinent
documentation that is succinct and brief
*   Increase HACC's, DGoH's and HRPIRD's knowledge
on health sector reforms, in particular, health financing,
resource allocation, and the implications of legislation
and regulation.
b) Existing            *   Absence of health planning and     *   Existing management, planning and budgeting systems
management,              budgeting systems.                     will be strengthened
planning and        *   Poor management information        *   New policies will be integrated into existing systems.
budgeting                system                            *   Improved use of HIS data
systems             *   Poor use of basic health           *   Develop health system research for policy and
information data to support           evaluation role
management decisions              *   Conduct National Health Demographic Survey
*   Conduct Household Survey
*   Develop National Health Account NHA
c) Human Resource      *   Need for human resource           Individuals with the following skills to be recruited:
Capacity                 management and development        *   Information analyst with background in Epidemiology
*   Lack of epidemiological and health   *   Health policy analyst
information analysis, Health system   *   Research analyst
research capacity and capability
Training of individuals within HRPRID to be accelerated to
provide support to
*   HIS Management
*   Health Planning
*   Policy Analysis
*   Policy Development
*   Communications and public awareness campaigns
*   Human Resource management and development
*   Health System Research
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency for the project is the Treasury Department and the implementing agency is the
Department of Health.
-18 -



4.2 F'roject management:
The functional operational structure for the health sector reforms and donor co-ordination comprises three
main groups:
* Project Co-ordinating Committee (PCC) - ministerial policy co-ordination
* Health Aid Co-ordinating Committee (HACC) - Department of Health technical and operational
organizational policy level; HRPIRD technical support and secretariat to HACC, and
*   Project Management Team (PMT) - day-to-day project management, coordination and support
The Hlealth Sector Management Project is proposed to be implemented and managed within this structure
as described in Section C4. The quality, cohesiveness of the people and mechanisms within it will
determine not only the direction and pace but also to a large extent the success of the project. Separate
terms of reference for each of these committees have been agreed with the Department of Health to clearly
delineate their roles and responsibilities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no apparent country procurement risks which could impact the project. The project is rated
average on procurement risk. The procurement methods for the project are simple, and procurement
responsibilities of the implementation team are clearly defined (see Annex 6 for details). Procurement
capacity building has started as early as the preparation stage of this project and are highlighted below:
*   IProcurement Workshop in October 1999
*   Procurement Training in Bank headquarters attended by the Director of Corporate Service Division in
Department of Health who will be responsible for the procurement of goods and works incorporating
the Govemment's Tender Board procedures
- B3asic Procurement Workshop including Preparation of Standard Bidding Documents and Evaluation
F-orms
Further Procurement Strengthening Action Plan:
*   Project Launch Workshop including annual procurement plan, the covenants of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and Disbursement Procedures.
F Training for Capital Asset Manager and the Project Implementation Officer in Turin, Italy at the
International Labor Organization (ILO) course on procurement of goods.
*   Continued procurement strengthening carried out by Bank team during supervision missions.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was conducted by Betham & Co. and is available in the project files.
There are no apparent country financial management risks which could impact the project. The
computerized accounting system used by the IAMP is being customized for use under the health project and
its procedures are being documented in a Project Financial Management System manual for use by the
PMT by Board Approval. To ensure that the Project Accountant is provided with sufficient support during
the first phase of the project, the Government of Samoa will engage the services of a suitable accounting
fuim to provide end-of-the -month support. This includes, on-the-job training for the Project Accountant,
assistance in the preparation of reports, account reconciliation statements, withdrawal applications,
financial statements and supporting schedules.
- 19 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Hospital waste disposal. Hospitals generate small quantities of contaminated waste (20%) and a larger
amount of non-hazardous waste (80%). Uncontrolled dumping or mishandling of this small amount of
pathogenic waste can have serious consequences. Often, when these materials are mingled with domestic
wastes, they end up in the same dumps with municipal solid waste. These materials typically contain
plastics and containers, blood products, sharps and contaminated materials. In Samoa, the usual method of
contaminated waste disposal is by high temperature incineration or dumping at the local landfill in a special
set-aside area. Fortunately, there is no recycling going on and the danger of contact at the landfill and
small incinerator is minimal. However, the existing hospital incinerator which was installed in 1972 is not
currently in operation and these wastes go directly to the landfill. A consultant report has been completed
which provides a good overview of current hospital waste operations. As currently handled, the real risk is
at the hospital itself where the wastes are being deposited and packaged in a less than safe manner. The
health care waste management component of this project is intended to remedy this situation.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment process was initiated for the project to identify key social issues and disadvantaged or
vulnerable groups in the population and define a framework to establish an on-going process of
consultations to ensure mitigation of potential negative effects of the project.
The goal of the health sector is to manage health resources effectively and efficiently so as to provide
equitable access to quality health services. The health reform supported by the project is intended to enable
the health sector to attain these goals. The poor and other disadvantaged groups are supposed to benefit
from this process. Rationalization of health services provides an opportunity to improve the quality and
reach of health services to key target groups, neglected populations and vulnerable groups. In addition, it
also provides a chance to tap the resources of secondary stakeholders to help ease the adjustment process
and reorient health sector priorities and services.
The key stakeholders identified in the stakeholder consultation analysis are the health sector stakeholders
including the Department of Health personnel, Medical and Nursing Associations, private sector health
providers and institutions and other health professionals; other primary stakeholders including the poor and
- 20 -



other disadvantaged and vulnerable groups such as women and the elderly; secondary stakeholders such as
women's committees, NGO's, youth groups, traditional healers, church organizations, other government
ministries, and donor agencies and international development organizations. The most significant group of
interest who are likely to be most affected by the project are the disadvantaged groups.
Key Social Issues. The key social issues are the effects of the reforms supported by the project on
disadvantaged groups and the need for the participation of these groups in the consultative processes
supported by the project. These groups most likely to be affected by the changes in the health system
during reforms are disadvantaged by three factors: poverty, vulnerability and poor access to health
services.
Poverty. Until about five years ago poverty was considered to be a taboo subject in Samoa. . Since the
Samoan village and family networks redistribute wealth and protect the well-being of all their members, it
was assumed that there was no poverty. The suggestion that there might be poverty and unequal
distribution of wealth in Samoa raised troubling questions about how well traditional systems and
hierarchies were functioning.  Research efforts in the 1990s, such as the Household Income and
Expenditure Survey of 1997, have also raised awareness about poverty and pointed out that there may be a
significant portion of the population that is not be able to meet its basic needs and provided information on
the characteristics of households suffering from poverty. Households with daily basic needs expenditure
deficits were more likely to be: 1) large, 2) without water piped in for their exclusive use, 3) using wood for
their main cooking fuel, 4) using spirit or kerosene lighting, and 5) using a pit latrine.
Vulnerability: Relief and research efforts have identified characteristics that tend to be associated with
groups at risk in Samoa. Following its relief efforts during the 1991 Cyclone, the Red Cross Society
compiled a list of groups that were most vulnerable to poverty in Samoa. These included: 1) female-headed
households, 2) elderly 3) mentally and physically handicapped, 4) chronically ill patients living at home, 5)
those from rural areas living on lease-hold land in Apia, 6) children suffering from malnutrition, and 7)
families of prisoners.
Equity and access: Equity and access to health services in Samoa is influenced by various factors that play
into how the poor and other vulnerable groups are affected by the health reform. The information available
about these factors is limited and spotty. Anecdotal evidence and some other research efforts suggest that
they may include: 1) cash-poverty in the largely subsistence economy of Samoa, 2) seasonality of the
availability of money, 3) distance from a health facility; transportation availability and costs, and 4)
membership in women's committees.
Social development outcomes: The social development objective of the project is to improve the quality of
health services to disadvantaged groups and increase their utilization of health services. It also aims to
improve the participation of these groups in consultations.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders will be involved in the project through an on-going consultation process throughout the
health reform process. This process will ensure that all key stakeholders are able to express what they
want from the reform process and take an active role in determining policy. A framework for stakeholder
consultation identifying key interests/issues, associated risks and potential consultation mechanisms is
outlined in Annex 4A. The main consultation mechanisms will include (i) national consultations with all
stakeholders (ii) consultations for donor agencies (iii) consultations with health sector stakeholders at the
national, district and village levels.
6.3 Hlow does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
- 21 -



Public meetings and consultative processes are a well established aspect of Samoan society and
government. However, consultations are also closely tied to traditional power structures and hierarchies.
The Matais, or chiefs, are the primary speakers at such gatherings, with others having lesser roles
according to their status. The general public may be present but often do not actively participate. These
traditions are hard to break. The modem form of consultations still tend to be dominated by high status
and official people. In such a context, it is a challenge to ensure that the voice of civil society, particularly
disadvantaged groups, are represented in consultative process. NGOs and civil society will take part in
consultations at the national, district and village level.  Specific consultation mechanisms for key
stakeholders are outlined in Annex 4A.
To ensure that NGOs and civil society play an informed and active role in the policy decisiQn-making
process, the project includes the following measures: (i) on-going, iterative consultation at all levels and (ii)
communication through other media to complement the consultation process.  Clear guidelines for
consultation. To ensure that the stakeholder views expressed during consultations inform the reform
process, consultations will follow clear guidelines and procedures which will be developed in the first year
of the project. NGO and civil society participation in the improving the quality of services will be
encouraged.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure tne project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To improve the quality and reach of health services and user satisfaction with services, the project has
included several institutional mechanisms: (1) service delivery improvements to increase service quality; (2)
a stakeholder consultation process to improve understanding of stakeholder needs and the responsiveness of
the health system to them; and (3) a communications strategy to ensure that stakeholders are informed
consumers of health services are able to play a meaningful and active role in policy-making.
The stakeholder consultation process will also specifically include measures to ensure that harmful effects
of the reform process are mitigated. Mitigation of potential harn will require (i) the identification of the
risks of the health reform process, vulnerable groups, key social issues, including factors that determine
access to services, and key social indicators and (ii) the implementation of steps to mitigate any adverse
impacts.
To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Department of Health to carry out the stakeholder
consultation process, the project will improve staffing and training in consultation processes and develop a
system  for gathering and disseminating information.  A consultation specialist  with experience in
participatory processes and skills in consultation, social issues and communication will be identified to lead
the process. Nurses will be trained to conduct the consultation efforts at the village level and monitor the
effect of health reform on vulnerable groups through household visits. Preventive health staff are skilled
communicators and will also play an important role in disseminating information and obtaining feedback
about health reform. All health staff will be provided with training on key social issues in health reform
and the collection analysis and use of data. A system for collecting, analyzing and using data during
community consultations will be established. Key indicators will be narrowed down to a few priority areas
to ensure that staff are not over-loaded and that all information gathered can be used.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Two key outcome/impact indicators will be monitored separately for disadvantaged groups (i) monthly
outpatient visits to health centers and (ii) increased propQrtion of population satisfied with health system.
To monitor the impact of the project on vulnerable groups indicators for disadvantaged groups will be
defined through background research and initial stakeholder consultations. Potential indicators include: (i)
- 22 -



characteristics of vulnerability; (ii) household characteristics of impoverished families, and, (iii) factors
affecting access to health services, such as membership in a women's committee and distance from a health
center. In addition, the impact of health reform on vulnerable/disadvantaged groups will be monitored
through (i) surveys on health utilization of vulnerable/disadvantaged groups, (ii) surveys on user
satisfaction, with disaggregated analysis of disadvantaged groups, and, (iii) household visits by community
health nurses, to assess health and well-being. The progress of the stakeholder consultation process and the
use of information gathered at the consultations will be monitored through: (i) minutes of consultations,
which will be disseminated to participants and (ii) documentation of feedback to stakeholders of which of
their ideas have been accepted or rejected and why.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.I Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PoliCy                                      Applicability
EL Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            L Yes 1 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    El Yes 1 No
E: Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     El Yes 1 No
O Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        El Yes M No
O Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    Oi Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    Li Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes Z No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               EL Yes Li No
EL Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    El Yes O No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          Cl Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Indigenous Peoples. As virtually all Samoans are indigenous peoples, there is no group with a social and
cultural identity distinct from the dominant society in Samoa. Therefore, Operational Directive (OD) 4.20
does not apply to the project. Vulnerability in Samoa is not an issue of ethnicity or indigenous peoples,
but rather a social concern. Vulnerable groups are characterized by poverty and poor access to health
services, or belong to groups who are at risk, such as the elderly, disabled or female-headed households.
The following elements of project preparation and design are intended to mitigate potential harm to
vulnerable groups from the health reform process:
(i) Specialist advice. A social assessment process has been initiated for the project, to identify key social
issues, including vulnerability, poverty, and access to services, and incorporate these in project design. A
summary of the assessment is presented in Annex 4A and the report is available in project files.
(ii) Stakeholder consultations. Stakeholder consultations started early in project preparation and included
six formal meetings at the national level and numerous informal consultations with all stakeholders
identified during preparation and appraisal (see table in Annex 4A). The social assessment defines a
framework for on-going stakeholder consultations to ensure mitigation of potential negative effects of the
project. Samoa has a rich tradition of consultation at the national and local level, and government
commitment and ownership of the consultation process is high. However, consultations in Samoa tend to
be dominated by powerful groups. Additional steps have been taken under Component A3 of the project
to ensure that the disenfranchised, poor, and other disadvantaged or vulnerable groups benefit from the
consultation process. These include training in participatory processes for health staff at the local level
and monitoring of disadvantaged groups.
- 23 -



Involuntary resettlement. No resettlement is planned in the project or expected as a consequence of the
project. In the unlikely event that resettlement would be required, the Government would, as a
condition of participation in the project, be required to prepare a resettlement action plan, in
accordance with guidelines which have been prepared andfound acceptable to IDA.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project benefits is analyzed in terms of health benefits, fiscal impact, and institutional
capacity and social support for continuation of the reform initiatives after the project.
(i) Sustainability of health benefits: The project is part of a fundamental reform of the Samoan health care
financing and delivery system. It will improve the long-run sustainability of the Samoan health system by
increasing the economic efficiency of the service delivery network, improving cost recovery and identifying
cost-effective options for future provision of complex and expensive tertiary services within and outside
Samoa. In addition, the linkage of the project to the broad economic and public sector reforms will
mutually reinforce the sustainability of its benefits.
(ii) Fiscal Impact: Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are expected to be a small
proportion of the recurrent health budget. (see Section E2)
(iii) Institutional capacity: The project will build the capacity of personnel within the Department of Health
to: (i) develop, introduce, implement, monitor and communicate policies; and, (ii) plan, manage, and
monitor implementation of health sector capital investment and maintenance. Since these capacities are
specific to the health sector and the Department of Health it is expected that these skills will be retained
beyond the project period.
(iv) Social support: The support of civil society in the continued reform of the sector is being addressed
under the project through increased stakeholder involvement in the design, monitoring and implementation
of the project. (see Sections E5 and E7).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk RatinX Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Doing too much too soon might                H          Project design kept simple, easy to implement
destabilize things that work well today.                and in line with available capacity.
Lack of consensus and opposition by          S          Communication and consensus building
"losers" might jeopardize reform.                       explicitly addressed in the project design and
implementation.
Political changes may jeopardize              S         Continuous dialogue with key policy makers.
Government commitment to essential
policies.                                               A legal framework to be established to
or,                                                    institutionalize the overall strategy, principles
Major policy announcements made                         and general direction of the reform.
without supporting legislative and
administrative activities.
- 24 -



Policy decisions may result in reduced     M         Vulnerable/disadvantaged groups identified
access of vulnerable groups to health                during social assessment.
services.                                            Social and economic impact of all policies will
be monitored as part of project monitoring.
Lack of coordination and sequencing        S         PCC organized annual health sector donor
other reformn/aid activities.                        meetings to monitor ongoing donor programns.
Regular consultations with DOH and donors.
MOU with AusAID, WHO and Government of
Samoa on a coordinated annual plan and joint
monitoring process.
From Components to Outputs
Community ownership of facilities may      S         Plan to be developed through extensive
hinder implementation of rationalization             consultations with communities and key
of rural health facilities.                          stakeholders and implemented with community
approval.
Lack of understanding of project goals     S         DOH officials responsible for project
and objectives may result in poor                    implementation involved in project design.
implementation and thus low impact.
Rapid turnover of personnel.               M         Sustaining personnel in key positions a condition
of the project
Government may not adopt facility norms    N         Government involved in the preparation of
and standards.                                       facility masterplans.
Adoption of facility masterplans a conditionality
of use of project funds for investment program.
Facilities masterplan may identify need    N         Facility plan to define infrastructure needs
for more construction or rehabilitation              which can be supported by all donors.
than can be supported by project funds.
Overall Risk Rating                        5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Counterpart,funds:
1. Make available in each year's budget commencing fiscal year 2001, and until completion of the project,
the counterpart funds needed for the following year's activities under the project.
- 25 -



Audit:
1. Submission to IDA by December 31 each year of an audit report covering the previous fiscal year.
Monitoring, review and reporting:
1. By April 30 each year, starting April 30 2001, prepare an annual work plan for the following fiscal year
(July- June) for review and approval by IDA; and provide opportunity for IDA to exchange views on the
plan with bilateral and multilateral donors.
2. By May 31 and November 30 each year, commencing May 31, 2001, provide project progress reports
to IDA, in formats and using indicators acceptable to IDA.
3. Conduct annual implementation reviews during which previous year's progress will be reviewed by IDA
and Government. The first of these will be an Early Implementation Review around 12 months after loan
effectiveness.
4. Conduct a mid-term review of the project, according to TORs and guidelines acceptable to IDA; send
report to IDA by July 2003, and hold consultations with IDA on the findings by Sept 2003.
Management/Institutional:
1. Maintain in the Department of Health, until completion of the Project, the following staff with
qualifications acceptable to IDA:
(a) Community participation and communication officer in Nursing Division
(b) Project service planning officer, project policy analyst and National Health Planner in HRPIRD
(c) Health care waste manager in Preventive Services Division
(d) Project capital asset manager in Corporate Services Division
2. Maintain until completion of the project:
(a) A Project Coordination Committee in Government with membership and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA
(b) A Health Aid Coordination Committee in the Department of Health with membership and terms
of reference acceptable to IDA
(c) A Project Management Team in the Department of Health with qualified staff in adequate
numbers, including
(i) a project coordinator (ii) a project implementation specialist
(iii) a project accountant and (iv) a project administrative officer.
Civil works:
1. Provide (a) by December 31, 2001, a health sector investment masterplan for the TTM hospital and (b)
by June 30, 2003 a health sector investment masterplan for public sector health facilities in rural areas, for
approval by IDA.
2. Provide by March 31 each year, starting March 31, 2001, a rolling two year health facility rehabilitation
program, based on the approved facility masterplan, for approval by IDA. (The rehabilitation program for
the first year has been agreed upon.)
3. By June 30, 2003, prepare a draft list of rural health centers, which list shall be based on the master
plan referred to in l(b) above, and provide such list to IDA for approval.
- 26 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
First year activities will include:
1. Rehabilitation of the Outpatients and Emergency Department (OPED) of the TTM Hospital.
2. Production of National Health Accounts for FY99
3. Initial analysis of mechanisms for improving resource allocation in the health sector
4. Finalizing of the health services strategy for TTM Hospital and urban Apia
5. Finalizing of the TTM hospital facility masterplan
6. Development of basic procedures for disposal of clinical waste
7. Development of routine measures for monitoring of health sector reform
Draft terms of reference for technical assistance for the above activities and design briefs for first year civil
works have been prepared and are ready to be tendered.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rekha Menon                       Alan Ruby                         Klaus Rohland
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
-27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Hierarchy ~~~~~       Key Pe ftOftance          ni*rg&eauto              Ciia   supin
I,~~M~ators  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ft o
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable improvements in Share of National budget  HIS, National budget     Economic growth remains
the health status of the  allocated to health                                  stable.
population
Percentage of health budget
allocate to priority health
problems
Nutritional status of the  Nutrition surveys         Changes in nutritional status
population                                           of population reflects changes
in health status
Project Development       Outcome i Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The objective of the project is  1. Percentage of Departmnent  National Health Accounts.    Economic stability maintained
to support health refonn in   of Health revenue gained from (first NHA completed
Samoa by improving the    non-govermment sources.    December 2000)            No major environmental
capacity of the department of                                                   disasters
health to (i) develop and  2. Percentage of Department  National Budget,
implement appropriate     of Health resources allocated  National Health Accounts    Effects to determine baseline
policies, legislation and  to preventive and primary    (first NHA completed    for indicators will be
regulation, and (ii) improve   health care.          December 2000)             successfiil by end FY01
the functional and technical
quality of health facilities  3. Percentage of health budget National Budget,
used for overseas treatment.   National Health Accounts
(first NHA completed
December 2000)
4. Monthly outpatient visits to HIS - baseline exists
health centers overall and by
poor and vulnerable groups.
5. Bed-occupancy rate by  HIS - baseline exists
ward, average length of stay in
selected departments, bed
turnover rate in hospitals.
6. Access to inpatient services HIS - baseline exists
at hospitals by region of
residence.
7. Proportion of population   Household survey. (first
satisfied with health system,  survey completed November
particularly the poor and  2000)
vulnerable groups
-28 -



Key Pefformance                                      ,
Hierarchy of Objecives           Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Crical Amrmlons
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Al. Strengthened policy                                                        Cabinet endorses policies and
framework in health                                                            proposed reforms
financing, resource allocation,
and services provision                                                         Other donor inputs are
through:                                                                       implemented in a coordinated
fashion
Revised policies are accepted
by the public
1. Annual reports on sources  Progress reports
1. Improved capacity to   and uses of funds in the health National Health Accounts
identifv, test, and implement  sector in FYO 1-05.
mechanisms for health
financing and improved    2. Resource allocation targets National Health Accounts
management of public      for government financing of
expenditures on overseas care primary, preventive and
clinical services set by FY02
3. Actual government      National Health Accounts
expenditures on primary,    National Budget
preventive and clinical service
in FY03-FY05
4. Improved user fee structures Progress reports
and methods of collection
developed by end of FY01
5. System to monitor      Progress reports
collection of user fees
established by end of FY02
6. Plan for public funding of  Progress reports, National
overseas medical care revised  Budget
by end of FY02 and
implemented in FY03
1. Services plan developed for
TTM hospital by end FY0 1,  Progress reports
2. Appropriate plans and    for urban Apia (including
strengthened capacity to  private sector) by end FY02,
utilize primary /institutional,  and rural areas by end FY03.
urban/rural, public/private,
national and overseas services 2. Clinical services plan for
overseas medical care
developed by end FY02.
- 29 -



A2. Appropriate health care  1. Existing health legislation  Progress reports
legislation and regulations in  and regulation reviewed by
place to support the reform    end of FY0 1.
and enable delivery of health
services                    2. Health legislation and    Progress reports
regulation revised in the light
of new policies and
developments.
A3. Improved capacity to    1. Communications strategy   Progress reports
support the development of   on DoH reforms agenda
policy and legislation      including consultations with
stakeholders developed and
operational in FY0 1.
2. Legislation and policy   Progress reports
register developed in FY0 1
and maintained.
B 1. Improved processes     I. Health sector asset      Progress reports             Standard norms for facilities
for and capacity of DOH to   management plan developed                              and equipment adopted by
carry out facilities planning in by end of FY02.                                     Government
response to requirements
identified in a services plan.  2. Facility masterplans  Progress reports
developed for TTM hospital
by end of FY01, and rural
areas by end of FY03.
B2. Improved functional and  1. Percentage of facilities  Health Facility Survey
technical quality of health  meeting equipment norms at
facilities in response to   each facility in FY04-05.
requirements identified in the
facilities plan.
B3. A national clinical waste  1. National clinical waste  Progress reports
management system           management system
developed                   implemented in FY03.
-30 -



Key Porf6rmmn
tisrvt-y pf QPelVe               Indicatrs           Monitoring & Evaluation    Crifca Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Institutional Strengthening US$1.41 million       Progress reports           Continued availability of
1 . Strengthening Policy                                                       qualified staff especially in
Framework                                                                  HRPIRD and Corporate
2. Strengthening Health                                                        Services divisions of
Care Legislation and                                                       Department of Health
Regulation
B. Quality Improvement    US$4.24 million            Progress reports           Government adopts facility
I. Improving Services and                                                      and equipment norms and
Facilities Planning                                                         standards
2. Improving Quality of
Key Infrastructure                                                         Communities are favorable to
3. Developing a Health                                                         rationalization of rural
Care Waste                                                                 facilities
Management System
C. Project Management and  US$0.42 million           Progress reports
Coordination
-31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
The Government of Samoa has embarked on a health sector reform program within the framework of the
overall Statement of Economic Strategy (SES), which will ensure that the Department of Health's policies,
infrastructure, equipment and other resources enable the Government to provide efficient and good quality
health services to the people of Samoa.  The reforms were necessitated by: a) the government's
macroeconomic and public sector reforms as defined in the SES, b) changing disease patterns and
demographic profile of the population, c) increasing demands for high quality care, d) rapid growth of the
private health sector and e) increasing public health care expenditure.
The overall goal of the health sector reform is to ensure equitable access for the population of Samoa to a
modem, effective, efficient and environmentally friendly health services, planned and delivered through the
close collaboration of the Government of Samoa, private sector and non-government organizations.
The Department of Health in consultation with key stakeholders has identified three priority areas for
reform of the health sector to achieve the objectives outlined in the Government's SES and the Health
Sector Strategic Plan 1998-2003. These are 1) Institutional Strengthening, 2) Primary Health Care/Health
Promotion, and 3) Quality Improvement. The various components of the reform program are as follows:
1.    Institutional Strengthening. There is a need to strengthen the Department of Health's capacity to
develop and undertake policy and institutional reforrns to achieve the Government's economic and public
sector reforms. This will involve a review and development of new policies regarding the organization,
financing, delivery and monitoring of health services in Samoa and the development of good management
systems to ensure that preventive and clinical services are effectively supported by management. Changes
in the management of health services will also ensure that good quality and efficient care is provided to
clients. Samoa has a growing private sector for health services delivery. These include traditional healers
and birth attendants, and other private health care providers. The Department of Health will develop
practical ways of collaborating more effectively with these important providers of health care.
2.     Primary Health Care/Health Promotion. Current preventive care programs focus on health
promotion, environmental health, reproductive health, nutrition, immunization, communicable diseases and
other areas. The health reform program plans to increase emphasis on the prevention of non-communicable
diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, heart diseases, cancer and injuries which are on the rise in Samoa.
3.     Quality Improvement. In order to continuously improve the quality of the services provided by
the health system, the following activities will be implemented. First, appropriate infrastructure i.e.,
buildings and equipment will be made available. With technology changing rapidly, equipment can quickly
become obsolete. Buildings and equipment will be progressively upgraded and maintained to ensure that
they support the services that are to be provided. Systems will be developed to improve, assess and
monitor the technical and functional quality of services provided.
The Health Sector Management Project will provide support to Government within its sector reform
strategy. The project will support selected elements of the institutional strengthening and quality
improvement components of the sector reform program respectively. A third component of the project
comprises its management, coordination and support activities. The components of the Health Sector
Management Project are described below.
- 32 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.41 million
Component A. Institutional Strengthening
The project will support three elements of the Institutional Strengthening component of the Samoa health
sector reform strategy. These are: 1) Strengthening Policy framework, 2) Strengthening healthcare
legislation and regulation, and 3) Support for communication and introduction of policies and legislation.
Al. StrenLrthening Policy Framework: This sub-component will support the review, development and
implementation of policies which define the funding and overall allocation of resources to health services
and the planning of health services. These will be achieved through technical support, capacity building,
studies and extensive consultations with key stakeholders and beneficiaries. In particular it will provide
support in the following areas:
Al.] Financing and resource allocation
Objective: Improve capacity of the Department of Health to identify, test, and implement
mechanisms for health financing and improved resource allocation.
In discussions with the Department of Health four key policy areas were identified and the activities
planned are in support of these areas. The four policy areas are as follows:
Policy Area 1: Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Health to plan resource needs for the
health sector
Samoa is going through a demographic and epidemiological transition that will put increasing pressure on
its health sector both in terms of the quantity and nature of services, and the amount of resources needed to
adequately fund health services. The Department of Health also is in the process of developing new policies
for health care financing. Currently, accurate estimates do not exist of current expenditures (both public
and private) on health services. In order to create base line estimates, assist in planning resource needs for
the health sector as well as measure the impact of policy interventions, it is proposed a system of National
Health Accounts (NHA) be developed and institutionalized in Samoa. The purpose of National Health
Accounts is to not only understand how much money is spent on health care in Samoa, the sources and uses
of health expenditures but also to use this information to inform the discussions on health sector planning
and reform. Technical support and training will be provided under the project to strengthen the capacity of
the Department of Health to conduct National Health Accounts analysis to address the three issues of
resource mobilization, resource allocation, and efficiency of production.
Policy Area 2: Strengthening the role of the Department of Health in identifying sources offunding, and
allocating responsibilities for their use for primary health care, preventive and clinical services
The Samoan Health Sector Strategic Plan states as an objective the need to better target public resources
on primary and preventive health care services. The focus of this activity is to support that policy objective
and to strengthen the role of the Department of Health in financing primary health care and preventive
services. Options for financing might include among others, defining a basic package of health services
that will be financed using public funds, and relying more on private financing for other services. While
the NHA exercise will provide estimates on the overall allocation of funds to inform the development of
financing options, data on current pattems of health expenditures on primary and preventive health services
as well are needed. Such data are not presently available.
- 33 -



The Department is also faced with the problem of having to meet increasing demand for high cost clinical
services with limited resources. At the same time the policy objective of the Government of Samoa is to
focus public financing on providing quality primary and preventive health care services. Increasing the
proportion of public resource allocated to preventive and primary health care services will require
rationalizing the role of the Department in financing clinical services. One policy option might be to target
public expenditures for clinical care on specific types of service and/or populations. However, as with the
case of primary and preventive health care not enough baseline data exists on current levels of expenditures
on clinical services as well as the cost by type of service or disease condition.
Technical assistance will be provided to both develop and build capacity within the Department in this area.
The main aims of this activity are:
- To develop base-line estimates on the end use of resources on preventive, primary health care and clinical
services
- Conduct costing studies to determine the cost of providing different types of services
- Use the costing studies to examine the efficiency of resource use
- Use these findings to assist in policy discussions on what services should be provided by the Department
of Health, as well as targets for the proportion by which the resources allocated to the identified
preventive and primary health care services will be increased, and clinical services decreased over the life
of the project
- Put in place a system to monitor on an annual basis
Policy Area 3.  Identifying new sources of funding for health services and improving collection of
revenues within the Department of Health generally, and specifically within the facilities delivering the
services
The Department of Health is interested raising additional revenues and improving the use of existing
revenues to fund health services. This will be achieved through (i) improved collection of revenues and (ii)
developing new options for financing health services. The most powerful strategy would be systems of
health insurance. Such systems require enrolling members, collecting premiums, establishing policies on
covered services and reimbursement procedures, paying providers, managing financial and utilization
information. To build on existing institutions, separate mechanisms will be examined for the modem and
non-wage sectors.
The activities under this area are expected to result in five achievements:
- Proportion of actual fees collected for publicly provided services as well as the relationship between price
of services and costs of production identified.
- Collection of user fees improved.
- Targets for cost recovery in the public sector developed.
- Appropriate legislation, ordinances and regulations identified, drafted and enacted, and
- Systems of health insurance examined, recommendations put forth to parliament, and chosen plans
implemented.
Policy Area 4. Increasing capacity of Department of Health to improve the management of public
expenditures for overseas care
Overseas care is an important part of the health care system of Samoa. For both the public and the
Department of Health, the availability of such treatment indicates that the small country's health care
system is part of powerful global network, and makes lifesaving treatments available to hundreds of
- 34 -



Samoans annually. On the other hand, overseas treatment is extremely costly, and the resources may be
more productive at home. Official, government supported overseas care, falls within a program of the
Samoa Department of Health, and through the New Zealand overseas medical scheme. In addition, many
Samoans travel privately. Their care overseas is then paid through the resources of the patient and his or
her family, or through general subsidies in the health system. For some patients, overseas care has been
closely linked with care within Samoa. For cancer treatment, for example, chemotherapy may be initiated
overseas, but then continued within Samoa.
About WST$3 million (US$1 million equivalent) is annually budgeted for government supported overseas
care. For most Samoans, requests for overseas care to be funded by these sources are processed through a
medical committee of the Department of Health, or through consultants in New Zealand, respectively. Both
groups apply technical criteria to determine which patients would most benefit from overseas care. In the
case of political figures, decisions about funding of their care by the government of Samoa are made
directly by the Cabinet. In the FY2000, expenditures on cabinet approved care in the first quarter
reportedly exceeded the annual budget for such care.
Through technical support and training, this activity will increase the capacity of Departmnent of Health to
better manage overseas care in three ways;
- Criteria and implementation for publicly funded overseas care will be reviewed.
- Range of services and eligibility criteria will be refined to assure that public resources will be adequate to
meet projected demand by a defined target population
- Alternative financing mechanisms will be identified for the population not included in public sector
supported targeted population.
A1.2 Services Planning:
Objective: Improve capacity of the Department of Health to undertake health services planning
T he Department of Health recognizes that with technological and demographic changes, there is a need for
continuous review of service delivery strategies and locations. The project will support the department in
increasing its capacity to undertake services planning by supporting both the provision of local skills and
international technical assistance to undertake services planning. During the project, comprehensive
services plans will be developed in parallel with the development of financial policies, legislation of
regulations, and human resource planning.
Plans will initially focus on the range and depth of services to be provided from TTM Hospital and from
urban Apia. Subsequently, plans will be prepared for service delivery in rural areas, including the most
appropriate sites for centers and methods of delivery.  Treatment area for services development will
determine the publicly funded tertiary services to be referred overseas. In addition, plans for specific
clinical services will be developed during the period of the project. These will augment the facilities
services plans. Services plans will guide facilities and equipment planning being undertaken under the
project. In addition, the services plans will assist the Department in the allocation of its resources.
At the end of the project, it is anticipated that the Department will have:
- contemporary plans for urban & rural health services delivery
- services plans and policies for referral of publicly funded patients for overseas care
- plans for priority clinical services
- well developed skills within the Department to develop and maintain services plan
- capacity to utilize service planning in facilities and financial and human resource planning.
- 35 -



A2. Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation:
Objective: Improve capacity of the Department of Health to develop, communicate and introduce
policies and legislation.
Through technical support to the Department of Health and the Attorney General's Office for drafting
health legislation and extensive stakeholder consultations this sub-component will strengthen the existing
legislative and regulatory framework for current and emerging activities and policies. The legal framework
will provide the overall strategy, principles and general direction of the reform and institutionalize the
reform process. The draft omnibus health bill prepared in 1996 will be reviewed and component parts will
be updated to reflect current needs. The appropriate form for legislation will be determined, including an
omnibus health act, or multiple acts to cover all aspects of health services law. The completed work will
include draft bills for consideration by the Cabinet and Parliament. Following appropriate consultation
with government, health professionals, private provider representatives and community representatives,
draft regulations will be prepared under the relevant acts to cover the provision and supervision of public
health services and private health services including private insurance, clinical practice, hospitals and other
private health institutions.
A3. Support for Communication and Introduction of Policies and Legislation:
Objective: Improve capacity of the Department of Health to develop, communicate and introduce
policies and legislation
The project will provide support for continued communication, preparation, evaluation and monitoring of
the progress in the sector reform program through dissemination workshops, surveys and other activities.
In particular it will:
(i) Develop and implement a communication and consultation strategy. Through capacity building and
technical support the project will assist the Department of Health develop and implement a communication
and consultation strategy on the Department's health reform agenda including training in participatory
processes for health staff at the local level, advice to and consultations with stakeholders and the public
regarding progress in project components.
(ii) Develop Capacity for Policy Research and Monitoring. Through operational and evaluation studies
and surveys, it will support continued preparation, evaluation and monitoring of progress in the health
sector reform program and its impact of disadvantaged/vulnerable groups.
(iii) Introduce and Maintain a Policy and Legislation register. The project will support the development
and the initial maintenance of a Legislation and Policy Register that holds up to date copies of all
legislation and policies of relevance to Samoan health services as well as the internal policies of the
Department. It will provide support for the development of procedures manuals and staff training for the
ongoing maintenance of the register.
Project Component 2 - US$4.24 million
Component B. Quality Improvement
The project will support four elements of the Quality Improvement component of the Samoa health sector
reform. These are; 1) Improving Facilities Planning, 2) Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure, 3)
- 36 -



Developing a Health Care Waste Management System, and providing 4) Grants for Innovative Quality
Improvement Pilots.  These activities will be undertaken in conjunction with and as a part of the
implementation of the institutional strengthening component with facilities planning and infrastructure
irnprovement, based on services and resource planning, waste management meeting legislature and resource
requirements and innovative grants supporting services and human resources planning and providing
imnpetus for policy development.
B1. Improving Facilities Planning:
Objective: Improve processes for and capacity of Department of Health to carry out facilities
planning in response to requirements identified in a services plan.
The Government of Samoa in conjunction with key stakeholders especially the Treasury Department,
Department of Public Works, and the Public Service Commission will prepare a health sector investment
masterplan in accordance with the services strategy and hospital and health center roles which will guide
the future development of public sector health facilities. Since facilities planning should be carried out in
response to service needs, identified in a services planning process; therefore, support under the project to
develop facilities planning capacity within the Department of Health will be provided in coordination with
the establishment of a capacity within the Department to carry out services planning as a routine activity.
The preparation of the plans will involve extensive consultation with key stakeholders and beneficiaries and
multiple draft plan preparation, with contributions from the public, private and traditional health sectors.
The masterplan will be prepared taking into consideration current and potential site utilization; zones for
fiuture development with particular regard to functional relationships of services; identification of land to be
acquired for future use and land available for disposal. The masterplan will be prepared in two stages.
TTM hospital. The facility masterplan for the `TTM hospital is being prepared with support from
international consultants working in partnership with counterpart teams and is expected to be completed by
June 30, 2001.
Rural health facilities. The facility masterplan for rural health facilities will completed by June 30, 2003.
By project completion the following would have been achieved:
* a facilities planning routine would have been developed and adopted as part of the standard planning
procedures of the Department of Health,
* a facilities plan would have been developed in response to services provision needs and approved as the
basic guiding tool for capital investments in the health sector,
* equipment master plans will be developed which identify future needs and resource requirements for
adopting new technologies and updating existing services, and,
* maintenance plans will be developed which establish the policies, procedures and resources to be
allocated to ensure that facilities and equipment efficiently achieve their optimal life expectancy and
utility to the health service.
B2. Improviny Ouality of Key Infrastructure:
Objective: Improve functional and technical quality of health facilities in response to requirements
identified in the facilities plan.
- 37 -



Capital investments under the project will be managed and implemented according to health sector
investment masterplan which will developed in conjunction with key stakeholders especially the Treasury
Department, Department of Public Works, and the Public Service Commission. In the absence of in-house
technical capacity and support from Department of Public Works, this would require the hiring of a team
of consultants to provide a complete package of pre and post contract services. In order, however, for the
Department to be able, beyond the life of the project, to manage capital investments, their programming and
execution, assistance will be provided to establish capacity in-house capacity to plan, program and acquire
consultant services for the implementation of capital investments.
The project will provide financing for structural and equipment investments identified in the facility
masterplans as the highest priority to improve the operating efficiency of public health institutions. This
will include:
Upgrading of TTM Hospital: Activities would include design and implementation of rehabilitation and
facilities improvement at the TTM Hospital to overcome identified major deficiencies and to improve
functional relationships and overall operational efficiency of the hospital. These developments will be
guided by the services strategy and master plan for the hospital and will enhance the hospital's capacity to
efficiently meet its future service obligations.
Rationalization of rural facilities:  In accordance with the services strategy, few facilities will be
refurbished and few closed, to ensure efficient provision of modem primary health care services in rural
areas. These developments will be planned in conjunction with local communities and will reflect local
needs. The refurbished facilities will be standards on which future rehabilitation will be based.
By project completion the following would have been achieved:
1. Capacity building within the Department of Health to plan, manage and monitor implementation of
capital projects and to identify and hire required consultants' and contractors' services.
2. Capital projects identified and approved for implementation under the project would have been
completed.
B3. Developing a Health Care Waste Management System:
Objective: A national clinical waste management system is implemented.
This sub-component will implement a sustainable health care waste management system for Samoa based
on international guidelines for safe disposal of medical waste   Based on an assessment of current
management expertise in the Department of Health, the dearth of experience in this area and past practices,
the following approach to implementing a health care waste management has been proposed.
Review of Applicable Regulations and Policy. The Department of Health needs to be assured that
existing govermnent regulations and guidelines are sufficient and appropriate for the implementation
of this project component in terms of permits and environmental assessment. This task would best
be carried out through a series of face to face meetings with the Department of Lands and
Environment as soon as possible.
Agreement on Overall Management Structure. The roles of the Department of Health in monitoring
procurement and contractor perforrnance, and the role of the Department of Lands and Environment
in providing environmental oversight needs to be defined by government.
- 38 -



Definition of Basic Operating Procedures. Systems operating manual outlining procedures,
relevant regulations and guidelines, waste definition and characterization, segregation techniques,
containment and storage practices, collection and transport, treatment and disposal, and emergency
procedures in case of contamination and spills will be prepared. These tasks will be shared between
the Department of Health and the Department of Lands and Environment and be based on WHO
guidelines, procedures used in other countries and the new management structure in place.
Clinical waste disposal system. A medical waste incinerator would be installed at the current
dumpsite. Since this land is publicly owned and does not need to be acquired. Financing for other
items such as an HCW collection van and special containers would come through the project. These
assets would belong to the Department of Health but a private firmn would be contracted to operate
all equipment. Health facility staff will be provide specialized training on the handling of these
wastes.
The basic management system would operate under the regulatory aegis of the Department of Health under
its Director General. The Department of Health would formulate general policies which basically are a
national commitment to collection, treatment and disposal of HCW in a manner that is safe and meets
intemational standards for such materials. This would be done through a Healthcare Waste Manager who
would be responsible for the day to day monitoring of the contractors performance as far as collecting the
waste materials and getting them off hospital property. The HCW Manager would also be responsible for
managing the preparation of operating manuals and standards as well as working closely with health care
system management at each hospital and clinic. In this regard, it will up to the HCW Manager to inform
and communicate with hospital staff and where required and provide specialized training on the handling of
these wastes. A document control system will also be developed that is intended to track HCW from
generation to disposal. Responsibility for disposal (incineration) and the ashes will be the responsibility of
the Department of Lands and Environment.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.42 million
Component C. Project Management and Coordination
A Project Management Team (PMT) will be established to provide support functions and liaise with
implementing units within the Department of Health. The teamn will be responsible for financial and
procurement management, and will provide support to implementing units in the- Department of Health.
The project will fund project management consultants, travel, training and other administrative expenses.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Projet Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
A. Institutional Strengthening                                                         0.00
Al. Strengthening Policy Framework                        0.25          0.53          0.78
A2. Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulation  0.06          0.06          0.12
A3. Support for Communication and Introduction of Policies  0.35        0.10          0.45
and Legislation
B. Quality Improvement                                                                 0.00
B I. Improving Facility Planning                          0.13          0.14         0.27
B2. Improving Quality of Key Infrastructure               1.34          1.65         2.99
B3. Developing a Health Care Waste Management System      0.20          0.17         0.37
C. Project Management and Coordination                      0.34          0.05         0.39
Total Baseline Cost                                         2.67          2.70         5.37
Physical Contingencies                                     0.13          0.19         0.32
Price Contingencies                                        0.20          0.18         0.38
Total Project Costs               3.00          3.07          6.07
Total Financing Required                3.00          3.07         6.07
Lo:cal      Foreign        Total
)PrOoj  Cost By CategorY                 US $nilion   US $mi0lion    US $million
Civil Works                                                   1.05           1.13         2.18
Goods                                                         0.37          0.70          1.07
Consultant Services                                           0.93          0.80          1.73
Training                                                      0.10          0.07          0.17
Incremental Operating Costs                                   0.22          0.00          0.22
Physical Contingencies                                        0.13          0.19          0.32
Price Contingencies                                           0.20          0.18          0.38
Total Project Costs      3.00           3.07          6.07
Total Financing Required       3.00           3.07         6.07
* Totals include taxes of US$0.54 million
-40-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Presnt Value of Fhows                          Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial Analysis
____________             Analysk;        .______Aatss             Taxes            Subklies
Benefits:                  5,538,590          5,538,590
(i) Increased
Department of Health
revenues
(ii) Decreased public
expenditures on
overseas care
(iii) Decreased costs of
inpatient care at TTM
hospital
(iv) Efficiency gains
from improved referral
structure
Costs:                     4,019,220          4,422,490            583,000
Net Benefits:              1,519,370          1,116,100
IRR:                              27                 21
Net present value discounted at 10%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analysis is based on a stream of benefits and costs estimated over a ten-year period. Only
selected, quantifiable aspects of the project benefits were considered. The quantifiable benefits of the
project include: (i) reduced costs of providing services through improved referral structures and operational
efficiency of TTM hospital, (ii) increased revenue from user fees as a result of improved collection and a
revised user fee structure, and (iii) savings due to improved management of public expenditures for
overseas care. Other benefits such as environmental benefits from an improved clinical waste management
system, the influence of better health status on labor force productivity, indirect effects through better
school performance etc. or were not calculated due to lack of available data.
If the Net Present Value is calculated at a 5 percent discount rate (instead of 10 percent above), the present
value of net benefits is US$2,577,110.
Main Assumptions:
1.     Government expenditures on health as a share of GDP remains unchanged in the next 10 years.
Local inflation remains at 3% and foreign exchange remains at 3 Samoan Tala = I US$.
- 41 -



2.     The actual direct cost of a specialist clinic visit is US$5.40 and the actual cost of an inpatient day
is US$25. In compliance with the current practice, children of ages less than 5 and elderly (ages 65 and
over) will continue to be exempt from inpatient charges. The user fee collection ratios are assumed to be
100% for outpatient visits and 80% for inpatient care - these are based on a recent study conducted during
project preparation.
3.     Outpatient fees at health centers are increased from US$0.15 to  US$0.65, outpatient fees at
hospitals are increased from US$0.15 to US$1.35 and inpatient fees at hospitals are increased from
US$1.34 to US$3.75. Such a change in user fees is not expected to result in substantial changes in the
demand for health care. Since the fees that the private sector charges would still be significantly higher than
the public sector fees, it seems reasonable to assume that there will not be a significant shift of demands
towards private health care.
4.     Improved collection mechanisms and retention of user fees and a user fee structure which improves
the referral system which will be implemented from year 2 of the project will increase cost recovery from
user fees and thus health revenues from 3.5% of health budget to 9.53% of health budget. In the five years
beyond the project period, it is estimated that health revenues remain at 9.53% of health budget.
5.      Better management of public expenditures on overseas care (including follow-up treatment
arrangements) will result in a 20 percent decrease in overseas health expenditure from year 3.
6.     Currently the TTM hospital serves 7785 inpatients with a 5.48 days average length of stay and a
daily cost of US$25. It is assumed that improvements in the operational efficiency of the TTM hospital
will result in a one day reduction in average length of stay per inpatient and a 10 percent reduction in daily
cost of inpatient care. Both effects begin in year 3.
7.     A revised user fee structure that discourages (at least that does not encourage) unnecessary usage
of hospital services for outpatient care, is expected to result in a shift in outpatient visits from hospitals to
health centers. Currently, 163591 outpatient visits were made to hospitals (74 percent of all outpatient
visits). An outpatient visit at a hospital costs US$5.40 (based on both Department of Health reports and
WHO mission report in 1997). The cost of an outpatient visit at a rural health care facility is much lower
(US$1.70, according to the rough calculations based on Department of Health data). It is assumed that
only 60 percent of outpatients will seek care at the hospital level compared to the current 75 percent.
Again, efficiency gains in outpatient care in TTM (through a more efficient outpatients department), will
reduce the cost of outpatient care at the hospital level by 10 percent (to US$4.80).
8.    It is assumed that the project will not have a significant influence on the total number of outpatient
visits made to public health care facilities. If however the number of outpatient visits do increase and is
accompanied by improved diagnosis then the number of inpatient visits to hospitals will increase as well.
However, any increase in revenues from increased outpatient visits is assumed to be offset by the increase
in the costs of inpatient care.
- 42 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
As seen below, relaxation of one assumption could "switch" the results of the analysis. This relates to
reduced compliance in the payment of user fees for inpatient services as fees for such services increase.
However, increased incentives through retention of user fees at health facilities as well as a system to
monitor fee collection and the introduction of alternative health financing schemes like community-based
insurance, all planned under the project, is expected to raise health revenues beyond the 9.53% assumed in
the base case scenario.
Overseas care---- If there are no reductions in overseas care expenditures (instead of a 20 percent decrease
as a result of the project interventions), the NPV (discounted at 10 percent) is still positive, and the ERR is
19 percent.
Outpatient care---- If there are no efficiency gains in outpatient care (neither in terms of a demand shift
towards rural health care centers nor in terms of a reduction in the cost of outpatient care), the NPV
(discounted at 10 percent) is still positive, and the ERR is 20 percent.
Efficiency in TTM (inpatient care)--- If there is no decrease in the average length of stay (ALOS) but if the
inpatient care costs decline by 10 percent (as in the base scenario), then NPV is still positive. Similarly, if
there is no decrease in inpatient care costs but the ALOS declines by one day, the NPV remains positive.
However, if the ALOS remains the same and inpatients costs decline by 2 percent or less, the NPV is still
positive.
User fees --- Change in collection ratio. In the base scenario, 80 percent inpatient fee collection was
assumed. If this figure declines to less than 40 percent, NPV becomes negative.
Sensitivity analysis
NPV of net     ERR
benefits      (%)
(US$)
No reductions in overseas treatment - all other assumptions unchanged  728,990       19
Operational efficiency of TTM hospital:
(a) No decrease in ALOS at TTM hospital and costs of inpatient care   960,410        20
decreases by 5% - all other assumptions unchanged
(b) No decrease in ALOS at TTM hospital and costs of inpatient care
decreases by 3% - all other assumptions unchanged                     546,850         16
(b) No decrease in ALOS at TTM hospital and costs of inpatient care does not   338,210  14
decrease at all - all other assumptions unchanged
Health revenues -
(a) User fee collection rates reduces to 50% for inpatient fees instead of the  1,231,850  24
current 80% - all other assumptions remaining unchanged
(b) User fee collection rates reduces to 30% for inpatient fees instead of
current 80% - all other assumptions remaining unchanged                 - 109,930       9
-43 -



Annex 4A: Social Assessment
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
The goal of the health sector is to manage health resources effectively and efficiently so as to provide
equitable access to quality health services. The health reform supported by the project is intended to enable
the health sector to attain these goals. The poor and other disadvantaged groups are supposed to benefit
from this process. Rationalization of health services provides an opportunity to improve the quality and
reach of health services to key target groups, neglected populations and vulnerable groups. In addition, it
also provides a chance to tap the resources of secondary stakeholders to help ease the adjustment process
and reorient health sector priorities and services.
The key stakeholders identified in the stakeholder consultation analysis are the health sector stakeholders
including the Department of Health personnel, Medical and Nursing Associations, private sector health
providers and institutions and other health professionals; other primary stakeholders including the poor
and other disadvantaged and vulnerable groups such as women and the elderly; secondary stakeholders
such as women's committees, NGO's, youth groups, traditional healers, church organizations, other
government ministries, and donor agencies and international development organizations. The most
significant group of interest who are likely to be most affected by the project are the disadvantaged
groups.
Risks of health reform: The health reform process requires major changes in the health system. There are
aspects of these reforms that can have unintended negative effects on key stakeholders, particularly
disadvantaged groups. Potential risks of the reform process include:
* User fees for health services. User fees are intended to spread the costs of providing health services
among all beneficiaries. However, if not carefully understood, planned and implemented, user fees can
be a disincentive to the use of health services by the poor and other disadvantaged groups such as
women and children.
-   Private sector involvement in health services.   While private sector involvement in health
services is intended to increase the efficiency of the health system and lower costs for all stakeholders,
if not well implemented, it could lead to a segregated health system, with better and highly specialized
care for the rich, and greater cost and less access to services for the poor.
-   Closure of health facilities. The utilization of health centers has declined over time. To decrease
health costs, health reform  could involve closing under-utilized health centers.  Since women's
committees have been integrally involved in the operation and maintenance of these centers, they stand
to lose their traditional role.
Key Social Issues: The groups who are most likely to be affected by the changes in the health system
during reforms are disadvantaged by three factors: poverty, vulnerability and poor access to health
services.
Poverty. Until about five years ago poverty was considered to be a taboo subject in Samoa. Since the
Samoan village and family networks redistribute wealth and protect the well-being of all their members, it
was assumed that there was no poverty. The suggestion that there might be poverty and unequal
distribution of wealth in Samoa raised troubling questions about how well traditional systems and
hierarchies were functioning.  Research efforts in the 1 990s, such as the Household Income and
Expenditure Survey of 1997, also raised awareness about poverty and pointed out that there may be a
significant portion of the population that is not be able to meet its basic needs. The Survey provided
information on the characteristics of households suffering from poverty. Households with daily basic needs
- 44 -



expenditure deficits were more likely to be: (i) large, (ii) without water piped in for their exclusive use, (iii)
using wood for their main cooking fuel, (iv) using spirit or kerosene lighting, and (iv) using a pit latrine.
Vulnerability. Relief and research efforts have identified characteristics that tend to be associated with
groups at risk in Samoa. Following its relief efforts during the 1991 Cyclone, the Red Cross Society
compiled a list of groups that were most vulnerable to poverty in Samoa.  These included: (i)
female-headed households, (ii) the elderly, (iii) the mentally and physically handicapped, (iv) chronically ill
patients living at home, (v) those from rural areas living on lease-hold land in Apia (vi) children suffering
from malnutrition, and, (vii) families of prisoners.
Equity and access. Equity and access to health services in Samoa is influenced by various factors that play
into how the poor and other vulnerable groups are affected by the health reform. The information available
about these factors is limited and spotty. Anecdotal evidence and some other research efforts suggest that
they may include (i) cash-poverty in the largely subsistence economy of Samoa, (ii) seasonality of the
availability of money, (iii) distance from a health facility; transportation availability and costs, and (iv)
membership in women's committees
Women's committees assist in the upkeep and management of health centers and help maintain the standard
of hygiene in these facilities. To help finance their involvement, the committees charge user fees.
Committee members pay a lower fee than non-members, since they pay a membership fee to belong to the
committee and volunteer their services for the committees work.  The fee for health services for
non-members is substantially higher, ranging as high as twenty times that for a member. Therefore, being a
member of a women's committee offers benefits to families such as lower fees for health services.
Social development outcomes: Through the health reform process, the project aims to improve the quality
of health services to disadvantaged groups and increase their utilization of health services and increase
participation of these groups in the consultation process.
Framework for consultation: Key stakeholders will be involved in the project through an on-going
consultation process throughout the health reform  process.  This process will ensure that all key
stakeholders are able to express what they want from the reform process and take an active role in
determining policy.
Public meetings and consultative processes are a well established aspect of Samoan society and
government. However, consultations are also closely tied to traditional power structures and hierarchies.
The Matais, or chiefs, are the primary speakers at such gatherings, with others having lesser roles
according to their status. The general public may be present but often do not actively participate. These
traditions are hard to break. The modem form of consultations still tend to be dominated by high status
arnd official people. In such a context, it is a challenge to ensure that the voice of civil society, particularly
disadvantaged groups, are represented in consultative process. NGOs and civil society will take part in
consultations at the national, district and village level. A framework for stakeholder consultation
identifying key interests/issues, associated risks and potential consultation mechanisms is outlined in the
table below.
-45 -



Framework for Stakeholder Consultation
Department of Health      Need for              Estabnished pattei s of thinking    HACC
Divisions                 collaboration and     and behavior, therefore, could be  National Consultations
cooTdination of       resistant to reoyientation required  Health Sector Consultations
programs.             for health seform.
Medical Association       Prominent and         Has potential to oppose          HACC
powerful group in the  legislative changes that affect  National Consultations
health sector         future employment in the private   Health Sector Consultations
health sector.
Nurses Association        Responsible for       Favor interests of nurses,       HACC
delivering services in  therefore, potential bias against   National Consultations
village communities.   other stakeholders and          Health Sector Consultations
Work in close         fragmentation of health sector
collaboration with    priorities.
community
stakeholders.
Private Sector Health     Key actor for         Could be lead primarily by profit  National Consultations
Organizations             improving efficiency   motive, therefore, potential to  Health Sector Consultations
of services in health    favor interests of rich and
reform.               curative care over preventive.
Interested in
collaborating with
DOH.                                                   __
Private Practitioners     Interested in         Could be lead primarily by profit  National Consultations
maintaining their     motive, therefore, potential to  Health Sector Consultations
association with the    favor interests of rich and
Dublic sector.        curative care over oreventive.
Nurses                    Key link to primary   Established patterns of thinking    Health Sector Consultations
stakeholders and      and behavior, therefore, could be  District Level Consultations
vulnerable groups.    resistant to reorientation required
________________________                       for health reform.
Other Health              Key actors in the     Established patterns of thinking    Health Sector Consultations
Professionals            implementation of      and behavior, therefore, resistant  District Level Consultations
health reform.        to reorientation required for
health reform.
The poor and other        Concerned about       Some aspects of health reform    Annual surveys of impact of
disadvantaged and         access to and cost of   (e.g. user fees and private sector   health reform on utilization
vulnerable groups:        health services.      involvement) have the potential   of services by disadvantaged
Need greater          to increase costs of health      groups
awareness of health    services and decrease access to
risks and disease     these groups.                    Household visits by
prevention.                                            community health nurses
Women                    Close involvement                                       Health center and hospital
with the health sector                                 records
and closely tied to
existence of                                           Annual surveys on client
community health                                       satisfaction with quality of
centers.                                               services
The elderly              Need greater
awareness of health
risks and prevention
of disease.                         .
-46 -



Framework for Stakeholder Consultation
Secondary Stak holders                    _________
S                i6i i     Key /e           ts             Nttnti  Risks$          Potential Cnsustaion
.....   I   :  ~~~~~~~~~~~~   t ~~Mecbaalsin
Komiti Tumama          Interested in or have initiated training  Focus on          National Consultations
(Women's Committee     programs for women's committee          maintaining pre-    National workshop for women's
Development            members in small enterprise skills.     eminent role of     committees with DOH
Association),          Potential to help coordinate collaboration    women's
National Council of     with women's committees on health      committees may
Women                  reform consultative process and training  prevail over best
activities.                            interests of
Can assist in reorientation of women's  disadvantaged
committees toward preventive care and  groups.
micro-enterprise development activities.
NGOs, including        Work with community stakeholders.       Each NGO has        National Consultations
Women in Business,     May be interested in collaborating on   potential to favor its
StlNGO                 health-related initiatives and working with   own target group,
women's committees.                    leading to
fragmentation of
health sector
priorities.
Youth Groups           Key target group for preventive health  Inclusion may       National/District Level
concems                                increase            Consultations
fragmentation of
health sector
priorities.
Family Health          Experienced family planning organization.  Each NGO has     National Consultations
Association            Interested in expanding service delivery  potential to favor its
and increasing collaboration with DOH.  own target group,
leading to
fragmentation of
health sector
priorities.
Mapusa 0 Aiga (Sacred   Key group on domestic violence.        Each NGO has        National Consultations
Haven)                 Potential ally in identifying and targeting    potential to favor its
vulnerable groups.                     own target group,
Interested in greater collaboration and  leading to
cooperation with health facilities and staff.  fragmentation of
health sector
_________                                      priorities.
Traditional Healers    Used by virtually all the population.   Some health         National/district level meeting of
Interested in greater collaboration and  traditional practices  traditional healers with
cooperation with health facilities and staff.  may be harmful.  participation of DOH Health Sector
Potential conflict of interest with health                 Consultations
staff, therefore, may be sidelined if
consulted in a larger meeting. A separate
consultation effort is needed for this
group.
Church Organizations   Powerful influence at community level.  Supported by power  National/District Level
Work closely with community            hierarchy, therefore,    Consultations
stakeholders and provide training      potential for bias
programs.                              against
Interested in greater collaboration DOH.    disenfranchised.
Government Ministries   Interested in understanding stakeholder  Inclusion of high  Project Coordination Committee
needs in order to inform own programs  level ministry      National Consultations
and services.                          officials in
Need for collaboration and coordination  consultations can
with DOH to improve efforts to reach   substantially
stakeholders.                          decrease time for
other stakeholders
to express opinions.
Donor Agencies &       Interested in working with community    The goals of        Project Coordination Committee
Intemational           stakeholders, NGOs and DOH.             individual agencies   National Consultations
Development            Need for coordination of activities.    have potential to   Consultations for Donors
Organizations                                                  over-ride
govemment
___________________________   .Dpriorities.
-47 -



To ensure that NGOs and civil society play an informed and active role in the policy decision-making
process, the project includes the following measures:
An on-going, iterative consultation process. Health reform is a complex process. Many issues and
options have to be weighed before policies are determined and the implications of the reform are clear.
Stakeholders' views will be considered throughout this process. Some decisions  that have special
relevance for particular stakeholders, will be handled through specialized consultations.
A multi-level consultation process. In order for stakeholders to understand and provide their input on the
health reform process, the consultation process will be decentralized to reach the district and village level.
The consultation process will provide key information on the reforms to the stakeholder and give them an
opportunity to respond. The process should draw on the strengths of the existing village governance
structures and outreach system of the health department in both major islands.
Communication through other media to complement the consultation process. While village and family
networks are the primary source of information in Samoa, other avenues of communication, particularly
radio, will be used to supplement the consultation process. Radio is widely used and is an inexpensive and
effective media for disseminating information about the health reform process and its potential implications.
Radio talk-back programs will be used to debate issues of equity and social justice in access to health
services. In addition, radio could be used to promote preventive health care. Newspapers will also be used
for information dissemination.
Clear guidelines for consultation. To ensure that the stakeholder views expressed during consultations
inform the reform process, consultations will follow clear procedures:
1. Make information about the aim of the consultation and options for reform available to all participants
well in advance of the consultations.
2. Send participants the minutes of consultations shortly afterward, and invite their changes.
3. Provide feedback on which points made by stakeholders have been accepted or rejected and why.
Institutional arrangements: To improve the quality and reach of health services and user satisfaction with
services, the project has included several institutional mechanisms: (1) service delivery improvements to
increase service quality; (2) a stakeholder consultation process to improve understanding of stakeholder
needs and the responsiveness of the health system to them; and (3) a communications strategy to ensure that
stakeholders are informed consumers of health services are able to play a meaningful and active role in
policy-making.
The stakeholder consultation process will also specifically include measures to ensure that harmful effects
of the reform process are mitigated. Mitigation of potential harm will require the following steps:
*   Identification of the risks of the health reform processthrough the stakeholder consultations. The
identified risks will be recorded in the minutes of the consultations.
* Identification of key social issues, including factors that determine access to servicesthrough review
of available information and research, including project surveys on utilization of health services.
*   Identification of disadvantaged groupsthrough (1) examination of the available information from
surveys and (2) stakeholder consultations. The groups most vulnerable to changes in the health system
need to be identified and defined. Groups will be defined by measurable indicators that can be
monitored by the project to ensure that health reform has no negative impacts on these group.
*   Identification of key social indicators to monitor the impact of these reformsbased on advice from
technical experts and findings of stakeholder consultations.
- 48 -



*   Implementation of steps to mitigate negative impactsthrough targeted efforts to reach disadvantaged
groups. For example, where required, community health nurses will increase the frequency of
household visits to disadvantaged groups to ensure their well-being during the adjustment to the
reforms.
To strengthen the institutional capacity to carry out the stakeholder consultation process, the project will
improve staffing, information and training.
Staff.
A consultation specialist to lead the consultation process: A part-time coordinator will be the driving
force behind the consultation process and guide staff through consultations throughout the reform
process. A person with experience in participatory processes and skills in consultation, social issues
and communication will be identified.
Nursing staff: Nurses will take the lead in consultation efforts in villages with a health center and will
monitor the effect of health reform on vulnerable groups through household visits. With some training
in communication skills, participatory exercises, data analysis and use and social issues related to
health reform, nurses will be the primary means of informing communities about the health reform
process, obtaining their feedback and collecting and analyzing data to monitor equity, access and other
social concems.
Preventive health staff: Preventive health staff are skilled communicators and will also play an
important role in disseminating information and obtaining feedback about health reform. All health
staff will be provided with training on key social issues in health reform and the collection analysis and
use of data.
Information needs. Stakeholder consultations provide an important opportunity for collecting information
relevant to improving the quality and reach of health services, particularly to the poor and other vulnerable
groups. While Samoa is a small country with an extensive network at the village level, much information
about access to health services is not well understood. A system for collecting, analyzing and using data
during community consultations will be established. Clear guidance is needed on the issues to be explored.
Key indicators will be narrowed down to a few priority areas to ensure that staff are not over-loaded and
that all information gathered can be used.
Training. The staff that will lead and carry out the consultation process will benefit from training to
improve their skills in facilitating community consultations, particularly in participatory processes and
communication. Training programs will be short term, lasting no longer than a week at a time, so that
service delivery is not interrupted.
Monitoring of social development objectives: Two key outcome/impact indicators will be monitored
separately for disadvantaged groups (i) monthly outpatient visits to health centers and (ii) increased
proportion of population satisfied with health system. To monitor the impact of the project on vulnerable
groups,
Indicators for disadvantaged groups will be defined through background research and initial stakeholder
consultations. Potential indicators include:
*   Characteristics of vulnerability
*   Household characteristics of impoverished families
-49 -



*    Factors affecting access to health services, such as:
I .     Membership in a women's committee
2.      Distance from a health center
In addition, the impact of health reform on vulnerable/disadvantaged groups will be monitored through:
*    Household surveys on health utilization of vulnerable/disadvantaged groups
*    Surveys on user satisfaction, with disaggregated analysis of disadvantaged groups
*   Household visits by community health nurses, to assess health and well-being
The progress of the stakeholder consultation process and the use of informnation gathered at the
consultations will be monitored through:
*    Minutes of consultations, which will be disseminated to participants
*    Documentation of feedback to stakeholders of which of their ideas have been accepted or rejected and
why
Formal Consultation Process To-date
Consultation                     Objective                      Participants
May 1999, Govemment of Samoa  Held by Ministries of Treasury,   NGOs, divisional heads of the
Stakeholders Meeting           Foreign Affairs and Health to   Department of Health,
discuss the reform process.    representatives of health
professionals, representatives of
Included breakout session on   women's committees,
health sector priorities       representatives of village councils
and religious groups.
June 1999, Donor Conference on  To share information and improve  Government ministries and donors
Health                         donor coordination
November 1999                  To enable each sector to prepare   Civil society organizations, the
Government Statement of        its own strategic vision.       media, the private sector and
Economic Strategy Consultation                                 government departments.
The private sector presented their
vision for the health sector.
December 1999, Department of   To determine the future steps for  Divisional heads of the
Health Retreat                 the health reform process.      Department of Health and key
health staff professionals
May 2000, Health Services Plan   To consult health professionals    Two different groups of
Stakeholder Workshop           regarding the Health Services   stakeholders: one day with nurses,
Plan.                          doctors, and other professional
health staff from the National
Planning exercises considered  Hospital; and one day with
health reform in a 10 year time    divisional heads of the Department
frame and identified who should   of Health.
be doing what.
The Services planning exercise
involved field visits to
communities.
- 50 -



May 2000, Stakeholder         To identify and describe the   NGOs, women's committees,
Consultation on Health Sector    national priorities for health  traditional healers, religious
Strategic Plan                development                    groups, the private sector, heads of
government ministries, divisional
To get input from key stakeholders heads of the Department of Health,
to develop the Health Sector   academic institutions and other
Corporate Plan                 civil society organizations.
To get feedback on the health
services plan.
Future Steps In Consultation Process
September 2000                   Appointment of Community Participation and Communication Officer
September 2000                   Stakeholder consultation in Savaii
October - January 2001           District level consultation meetings
March 2001 and on-going          Nurses lead Village level participatory processes in villages where
there is a health center
Annually                         Health sector consultations
National level stakeholder consultations
Donor briefings on findings from consultations & the progress of the
reform
On-going                         Monitoring of vulnerable groups through health centers and household
visits
Dissemination of information about health reform issues and the
consultation process
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Years Ending
June 30
|Yearl1    Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4  |Year 5  |Year 6  |Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investmnent Costs           0.6         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        0.6       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs           0.6         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        0.6       0.0
Total Financing               0.6         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        0.6       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    0.5        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       0.5         0.0
Government                  0.1        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.1         0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      0.6         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       0.6        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Procurement
Country Procurement Assessment Report has never been done for Samoa. An assessment of the capacity
of the implementation team under the Department of Health was conducted by a procurement accredited
task team member, who has extended experience in procurement for human development projects including
those in the Pacific. The assessment was carried in two parts: a preliminary procurement capability
assessment in October 1999 and a follow-up assessment in May 2000. Detailed consultations were held
with Department of Health (DOH), Public Works Department (PWD), Finance, Procurement and
Contracting Divisions of the Treasury Department as well as the Project Management Consultant
implementing the Infrastructure Asset Management Project (IAMP) financed by IDA.
Samoa has implemented several donor-funded projects as well as IDA-financed projects including the
Emergency Road and Rehabilitation Project and the Infrastructure and Asset Management Project, which is
co-financed with AusAID. ICB contracts, NCB contracts and shopping procedures were procured using
Bank's procurement documents and in accordance with Bank guidelines. QCBS method was used when
hiring consultants for the Management contract for the Infrastructure Asset Management Project. This
process was viewed as fair and transparent by the consultants.
The Financial Guidelines of the Treasury Department sets the approval authority within each responsible
officer. In it, it has a paragraph which discusses the use of donor funds. It stipulates that responsible
accounting officers will comply with conditions of aid and loan agreements, and outlines the approval
authorities' threshold for aid funded expenditures. Therefore present practices in Samoa for government
purchases are generally consistent with Bank Guidelines and have been carried out with due consideration
of economy, efficiency and transparency. For example, three price quotations according to the same
technical specifications, international and national advertising, bid security requirement, public bid
opening, the comparison of qualifications from a short list, etc.
Procurement responsibilities
The overall project implementation, management and coordination arrangements are described in Section
C4 of the main document. The specific arrangements for procurement are as follows. The Director of
Corporate Services Division in the Department of Health will be responsible for procurement of goods and
works, and the Director of HRPIRD will be responsible for hiring of consultants for the project. They will
be assisted by the Project Implementation Officer within the Project Management Team (PMT) in
preparing the relevant documents.   The Finance Division of the Treasury Department will provide
oversight by reviewing the procurement and disbursement documentation prepared by the DOH prior to
authorizing payments to their Accounts Division.
Although the DOH has never handled an IDA-financed project, they have good experience in handling a
small PHRD grant involving hiring both firms and individual consultant services, procuring a few pieces of
office equipment using shopping procedures, and organizing several training workshops and seminars. The
Treasury Department has had experience with IDA-financed projects as mentioned in above.
Accountability of procurement responsibilities for the project is clearly divided and assigned among the
staff of the HRPIRD and Corporate Services divisions of the Department of Health including the Project
- 53 -



Implementation Officer, Project Accountant, Chief Accountant, Senior Stores Officer, and the Finance
Officer as well as several Treasury Department staff. The existing procurement and disbursement
documents and processes, book keeping and filing system were assessed and found to be adequate. In fact,
there is a more than adequate control system in place to ensure that payments are consistent with
contractual provisions. A new Financial Management System using the computerized accounting system
used by the IAMP project will be introduced and installed before Credit effectiveness, which will address
the adequacy of procurement management and project reporting requirements of the Bank.
In addition, procurement knowledge has strengthened in DOH since the beginning of project preparation as
described below, therefore, the overall risk associated with procurement is relatively low.
Procurement Capacity Building
A procurement workshop for IDA-financed projects was conducted in October 1999 for about 20
government staff of various departments, some of whom will be involved in the procurement tasks of the
proposed project. In addition, the Director of Corporate Services Division attended the February 2000
Basic Procurement Training at the Bank headquarters. Upon his return, he successfully launched a Basic
Procurement Workshop in collaboration with the Bank procurement accredited team member for both the
administrative staff in DOH, as well as health professionals, who are end-users and planners of hospital
equipment needs, and staff of the Treasury Department and PWD.
Procurement Action Plan
To continue local procurement capacity building and to ensure that procurement under the proposed project
is accomplished in a transparent and timely manner, the consultant responsible for civil works
implementation and the Project Implementation Officer will be provided training on the procurement of
equipment in Turin, Italy. In addition, the PMT will engage the services of a procurement advisor on a
part-time basis at least for the first three years.
Further procurement and management strengthening will be carried out during project launch and
subsequent supervision missions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
All procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). Standard Bidding Documents for Goods will be
used for all goods ICB contracts and Standard Bidding Documents for Smaller Works for NCB contracts
for civil works as appropriate. The procurement of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in
the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January
1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). The procurement of
consultant services will use the World Bank Standard Request for Proposal Selection of Consultants, dated
July 1997 and revised April 1998 and July 1999 and all consultant contracts will use the Bank's Standard
Forms of Contract for Consultant Services. Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements under the
project, and Tables A.0 and A. I show selection methods for Consultant Services.
Civil Works ( US$2.58 million including contingencies)
The project will finance rehabilitation of selected areas in the TTM hospital identified as priority by the
facility masterplan and rehabilitation of selected rural health centers based on standards developed in the
- 54 -



facility masterplan. No new construction is anticipated. A small amount has been allocated for civil works
associated with the installation of an incinerator at the Tafa'igata dumpsite under the health care waste
management component (Component B3 in Annex 2).
Civil works contracts are estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million each and unlikely to attract any
international contractors, but they would not be excluded if they choose to participate. Therefore, National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA will be used for all civil works contracts
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Document for Smaller Works as appropriate. Civil works costs include
architectural, engineering and construction supervision fees. Civil works contracts over WST 100,000 will
be submitted to the Government Tender Board in accordance with the Financial Instructions of the
Treasury Department.
Goods (US$1.25 million including contingencies)
Goods procured for the project will include medical equipment for the TTM hospital and selected rural
health centers, one incinerator, few vehicles and trucks, a small amount of office equipment and furniture
and a few computer stations with printers. Medical equipment will be grouped as much as possible into
large packages in order to attract competitions and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Bank
standard bidding documents for goods will be used for all ICB contracts. Domestic preference will apply
to goods manufactured in Samoa. Goods contract valued at less than US$150,000 will be procured using
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate of US$260,000, or where appropriate, (as in the
case of vehicles, office equipment and small medical equipment) contracts valued at less than $150,000 will
be purchased directly through UN agencies such as IAPSO or WHO. At least three price quotations will
have to be obtained if using national shopping procedures, and three price quotations from at least two
countries if using international shopping procedures.  Goods contracts over WST 100,000 will be
submitted to the Government Tender Board in accordance with the Financial Instructions of the Treasury
Department.
Services (US$1.79 million including contingencies and N.B.F. consultants)
Most of the technical assistance (TA) will be provided by individuals, both local and international, and
selected in accordance with Section V of the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. Table A.0 provides detailed
description of the services to be provided by firms and individuals (including estimated costs) under each of
the proposed selection methodologies. Single-source contracts will be used for most of small size firm
contracts and for continuation of previous work such as technical assistance in health financing. The
fielding of three household surveys (estimated at US$130,000) will be a service delivery contract overseen
by the Department of Statistics, the only agency in Samoa with the experience and capability in this area.
Large size consultant contracts valued at greater than or equal to US$200,000 will be advertised nationally
and in the Development Business. Government will finance a total of US$0.27 million which represents
15% of the total consultant services costs (see NBF column in Table A.0 for consultants hired using
Govemment financing).
Training (US$0.19 million including contingencies)
Most training activities are local including workshops and seminars for upgrading the skills of health policy
analysts, health managers and professionals, and key stakeholders, A few short-term overseas training and
twinning arrangements will also be included under this category. Destinations for overseas training and
twinning arrangements will be selected on the basis of relevance and quality of programs, cost and prior
experience and will follow applicable government and shortlisting procedures. Training activities for each
year will be included in the annual workplan for the project and approved by IDA.
- 55 -



Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.26 million including contingencies)
The project incremental operating costs include local transportation costs and subsistence allowances for
project-related staff in DOH, the project management team and project participants for management,
implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities of the project as well as printing
materials and small amounts of office consumables and supplies, availed of in accordance with Government
administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements.
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurerneint Method
Expenditure Categiory          ids            NC                  2        NhB.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           2.58           0.00          0.00          2.58
(0.00)         (2.08)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.08)
2. Goods                            0.99           0.00           0.26          0.00          1.25
(0.90)         (0.00)        (0.21)         (0.00)        (1.11)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           1.52          0.27           1.79
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.39)         (0.00)        (1.39)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00           0.19          0.00          0.19
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0. 1 9)       (0.00)        (0. i 9)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00          0.26           0.00          0.26
Costs                              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.23)         (0.00)        (0.23)
Total                            0.99           2.58           2.23          0.27          6.07
(0.90)         (2.08)         (2.02)        (0.00)        (5.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
Includes goods to be procured through UN Agencies international and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training and workshops, and
incremental operating costs in accordance with Government administrative procedures acceptable to
IDA.
Total project costs include taxes and duties of USSO.54 million.
- 56 -



Table AO: Consultant Selection Arrangements (Detailed)
(US$ million equivalent)
-- 'Expk.Ci:g6                  d-':              e s      ,_    --S  :oO.                  4
A. Firms
Health Financing Technical Assistance                                                     0.19              0.19
Household Survey Fielding                                                                 0.13              0.13
Financial Management System Support                                                       0.03              0.03
Software Customization                                                                    0.03              0.04
Project Management SuppOrt                                                                0.02              0.02
B. Individuals
Health Economist                                                                          0.26              0.26
Community Participation Specialist                                                        0.04              0.04
Services Planning Specialist                                                              0.10              0.10
Health Care Legislation Specialist                                                        0.08              0.08
Survey Design and Analysis Specialist                                                     0.07              0.07
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                                                      0.05              0.05
Facility Planning Specialist                                                              0.11              0.11
Medical Equipment Specialist                                                              0.07              0.07
Waste Management Specialist                                                               0.04              0.04
Service Planning Policy Officer                                                           0.04              0.04
National Health Service Planner                                                                    0.05     0.05
Legislation Drafting and Support Officer                                                           0.03     0.03
Communication and Community Participation Officer                                                  0.04     0.04
Policy Analysis Project Officer                                                                    0.03     0.03
Ad-hoc Studies                                                                            0.06              0.06
Capital Asset Manager                                                                     0.10              0.10
Health Care Waste Management Officer                                                               0.04     0.04
Project Coordinator                                                                       0.06              0.06
Project Accountant                                                                        0.04              0.04
Project Implementation Officer                                                                     0.05     0.05
Project Administrative Assistant                                                                   0.03     0.03
Total                                                                                   1.52     0.27    1.79
-57 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Exp t s4Rure0 WQC;BS3 a   Q         SFB       Les       CQ       Other    N.BF.  toul cost,
A. Firms           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.40      0.00      0.40
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.36)    (0.00)    (0.36)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.12      0.27      1.39
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.03)    (O.Q0)    (1.03)
Total   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.52      0.27      1.79
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.39)    (0.00)    (1.39)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Sole-Source, Service Delivery Contractors, Selection of Individual Consultants (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works. Prior review by IDA will be required for the first civil works contract per year regardless of
value. All other civil works contracts will be subject to random post review.
Goods. All ICB goods contracts valued greater than or equal to US$150,000 each, the first direct
contracting with UN agency as well as the first international and national shopping contracts regardless of
value will be subject to prior review. All invitations to bid must give sufficient detail and be comparable
according to the Bank's Guidelines. All other goods contracts below the prior review threshold will be
subject to random post review.
Consultant Services. All individual contracts valued greater than or equal to US$50,000 each, contracts
for consulting finns valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 each as well as all single source selection
contracts regardless of value will be subject to prior review. All other consultant contracts below the prior
review threshold will be subject to random post review. The TORs for all consultant contracts will be
subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                  First contract per year         NCB                       1.50
regardless of value
2. Goods                   $150,000 or greater             ICB                      0.99
Less than $150,000   Direct Contracting with UN          0.15
agencies
Less than $100,000    International and National          0.08
Shopping
All ICBs, first UN
purchase and first
international and national
shopping regardless of
value
3. Services                                                                         1.52
Firms                      $100,000 or greater     Single-Source, Service
Delivery Contractors
Individuals                $50,000 or greater           Qualification
and all TORs and SS
contracts regardless of
value
4. Training               Annual training plan            Other                     0.19
regardless of value
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$4.43 million (73%)
- 59 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed credit of US$5.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over a period of five years. The project
expected to be completed on September 30, 2005, and will be closed on March 31, 2006. The allocation of
credit proceeds according to each categories is shown in Table C. Retroactive financing will be available
for eligible expenditures incurred after July 10, 2000 up to a maximum amount of US$250,000.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
_        |     [Ctees  Amnin min li$ milli-;     ==________
Civil Works                         1.88                      80%
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 90% of local
expenditures for other items
Goods                               1.00          mrocured locally
Consultant Services                 1.39                     100%
TraininL                            0.18                      100%
Incremental 01erating Cost         0.23                      100%
Unallocated                         0.32                        -
Total                             5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement will be fully documented for:  (i) goods contracts valued greater than or equal to
US$150,000; (ii) consultant contracts valued greater than or equal to US$100,000 for consulting finns;
and (iii) individual consultant contracts valued greater than or equal to US$50,000. Disbursement for all
other expenditures, including civil works contracts, training and incremental operating costs, will be
disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOE), with supporting documentation retained in the PMT
office in DOH and made available for IDA review during supervision. SOEs will be subject to an annual
audit.
Special account:
A Special Account in US currency, with an allocation of US$300,000 will be opened at the Central Bank
of Samoa in terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The initial deposit would be US$150,000 until
disbursed and committed amounts aggregate SDR 1,000,000. The Treasury Department will submit
applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a monthly basis, or when the account is drawn
down by 50 percent of the Special Account balance, whichever occurs first. In addition to the supporting
documents, Treasury Department will maintain originals and PMT will retain copies of relevant supporting
documents against which applications for disbursement are prepared. The Special Account will be audited
yearly.
-61 -



Financial Management
Internal Control System. The internal control system for the Project consists of project management
organization, policies and procedures. It will follow the existing government internal control system
comprising of (i) project organization, (b) accounting system, and (c) control procedures. In order to meet
the Bank's requirement (OP 10.02), an assessment of the financial management capability and control
environment of the project's implementing agency, DOH, was carried out by consultants in accordance with
the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting Systems for World Bank Financed Projects,
East Asia and Pacific Region, December, 1997. The weaknesses identified have been addressed in the
design of the Project Financial Management System which will be put in place in the DOH PMT by board
approval date. The action plan for the establishment of the financial management system is outlined in
Table D.
Project Organization and Staffing. The overall project implementation, management and coordination
arrangements are described in Section C4 of the main report. The Financial Management System (FMS)
will be managed by the Project Accountant based in the Directorate of Corporate Services. The Project
Accountant will prepare financial project accounts on a quarterly basis, and integrate these reports into the
semi-annual progress reports of the project. To ensure that the Project Accountant is provided with
sufficient support during the first phase of the project, the Government of Samoa will engage the services
of a suitable accounting firm to provide end-of-the month support. This includes, on-the-job training for
the Project Accountant, assistance in the preparation of bank account reconciliation statements, withdrawal
applications, financial statements and reports and supporting schedules.
Accounting System And Procedures. As recommended in the financial management assessment, the
accounting function of the project will be located in the PMT, and kept separate from the existing DOH
accounting system. A specific project accounting system and procedures will be designed and documented
in the Project Financial Management System (FMS) manual for use by the PMT by Board approval. The
computerized accounting system which is being used to produce Project Management Reports (PMR) by
the IDA-financed IAMP project will be customized to suit Project needs. It is designed to generate
monthly, quarterly and annual accounts statements in the formats required by IDA. The accounting system
will use customizable commercial software and a unique procurement identification which relates each
action to the Project design and to the specific contract. A consulting firm has been selected to customize
the IAMP's accounting system to suit Project requirements.
Project Financial Reporting Requirements. The Project Accountant in the PMT will prepare a the
financial report, on a quarterly basis, for submission to the Treasury Department and DOH and then to the
Bank no later than one month after the end of the quarter. The following reports will be produced
according to the requirements of the Project Financial Management Manual, Exposure Draft, February
1999:
Financial report
Statement la: Project Source and Uses of Funds Report
Statement I b: Uses of Funds by Project Activity
Statement Ic: Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursement)
Statement Id: Special Account Statement
Statement I e: Project Cash Forecast
Project Progress Report
Statement 2a: Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity)
- 62 -



Procurement Management Report
Statement 3 a: Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
Statement 3b: Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services)
Statement 3c: Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
Statement 3d: Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)
The action plan for implementation of the Project Financial Management System is in
Table D, below.
Table D. Action Plan for Implementation of Project Financial Management System
Actons to be Taken                           Respnsibe       Comipleon Date
Group
1. Assessment of Financial Management System  Consultant     May 2000 (completed)
of Implementing Agency
11. Organization and staffing
a) Appoint Project Coordinator          DOM              February, 2000 (completed)
b) Appoint Project Accountant           DOH             July. 2000 (completed)
c) Establish PMT                        DOII           j July, 2000 (completed)
111. Accounting System and Procedures
a) Establish a computerized Financial    DOH /Treasury   September, 2000
Management System acceptable to the IDA  Department      (Board date)
including training of project accountant and
appointment of an accounting firm to provide
end-of-month support
b) Issue Financial Management Manual     DO1 I
acceptable to the IDA                    Treasury        September, 2000
L _________________________________________  Department
Audit Requirements. The annual audit will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
based on the project accounts submitted by the PMT. The process of selection of an independent auditor
will be subject to compliance with the Government of Samoa's own internal processes. The scope of the
audit will include the records of the PMT as well as the Central Bank of Samoa which will be custodian of
the Special Account. The audit will be conducted in accordance with International Auditing Standards and
in accordance with the Terms of Reference for the audit of project accounts, special account, and statement
of expenditures acceptable to IDA. The annual audit reports will be provided to IDA six months after the
end of each fiscal year, i.e. December 31 each year.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Projoet Sheule                       CPlane                                         Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         14                             10
First Bank mission (identification)                04/08/99                       08/02/99
Appraisal mission departure                        06/26/2000                     06/26/2000
Negotiations                                       07/17/2000                     08/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      10/01/2000
Prepared by:
Department of Health, Government of Samoa Preparation Team
Preparation assistance:
Project BB - US$168,405.89, Danish TF037961 - US$35,000, Pacific Facility TF022236 40,000; PHRD
TF025777 - US$65,000; TF025831 - US$15,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Speciality
Rekha Menon                         Task Team Leader
Carol Ball                          Procurement and Implementation
Kirrin Gill                         Social Assessment, Participation
Danielle Tronchet                   Project Processes
Rosario Aristorenas                 Project Processes, Administrative Support
Jack Fritz                          Environmental Assessment
Karin Nordlander                    Legal Counsel
Behdad Nowroozi                     Financial Management
Rosa Muleta                         Disbursement
Fadia Saadah                        Peer Reviewer
Eva Jarawan                         Peer Reviewer
External peer reviewers:
Pam Messervy (PMO, World Health Organization, Samoa)
Don Staines (Interim Advisor to the Department of Health, AusAID, Samoa)
Consultants who worked on the preparation of this project:
Christopher Scarf (Health Planning)
John Malmborg (Facilities Planning)
A.K. Nandakumar (Health Financing)
Anthony Manarangi (Health Legislation)
Jean-Christophe Laederach (Project Implementation)
Ruth Herbert and Moera Douthett (Women's Health)
Bruce Paterson Clarke (Health Care Waste Management)
Cem Mete (Economic Analysis)
Richard Cibulskis (Monitoring and Evaluation)
Juliana Yartey (Project Processes)
-64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
"Project Implementation Plan, Samoa Health Sector Management Project," Government of Samoa, June,
2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Samoa Health Sector Review: Meeting the Challenges of Development," World Bank, October 1998.
"Pacific Islands Stakeholder Participation in Development, Samoa" Anthony Hooper, Pacific Islands
Discussion Series, Number 3, World Bank.
Aidememoires in project files.
C. Other
"Partnership for a Prosperous Society," Statement of Economic Strategy 2000-2001, Government of
Samoa
"Partnerships in Health," Health Sector Strategic Plan 1998-2003, Government of Samoa
Department of Health Annual Report 1997 & 1998, Govemment of Samoa
Household Income and Expenditure Survey 1997, Government of Samoa
"Healthcare Waste Management in Samoa," Bruce Clarke, December, 1999.
"Institutional Assessment," Charmina Saili, May, 2000.
"Social Issues and Participation Framework," Kirrin Gill, May, 2000.
'Services Plan for TTM Hospital," Phillipa Milne, March 2000.
"Monitoring and Evaluation: Samoa Health Sector Management Project," Richard Cibulskis, April, 2000.
"Women's Health in Samoa," Moera Douthett and Ruth Herbert, December, 1999.
"Legislation Review of the Samoa Health Sector," Tony Manarangi, December 1999.
"Review of Facilities at TTM Hospital," Lisa Hanson, May 2000.
"Pacific Regional Strategy," World Bank, May 2000.
"The World Bank Strategy for Health, Nutrition, and Population in the East Asia and Pacific Region,"
World Bank, June 2000.
"Hlealth, Nutrition, & Population Sector Strategy," World Bank, October 1997.
"Samoa: A Situation Analysis of Human Development," UNDP, November 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 65 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions   disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower               Purpose                              IBRD    IDA       Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P052293     1999 Samoa                WS-INFRAST.MGMT(APL)                        0.00    14 40    0o00      10.88    2,54    -1 09
Total:     0.00     14.40       0.00     10.88    2.54    -1.09
SAMOA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                            Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                  PIIF MedCen Samo                   0.48      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.48     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000                  PIIFNBS                             0.00     0.00      0.10     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.10     0.00
1995                  PIIF Wilex Cocoa                   0.27      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.27     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            0.75      0.00      0.10     0.00      0.75     0.00      0.10     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                                Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:              0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &    middle- 
Samoa    Pacific   income         Development diamond
1 998
Ponilatinn mid-vear fmillions)                          n 18      1 817       908                   Life expectancy
ct8NP n,er rcanitrt (Atlas method- USSI                I n20        Q90      1 71/
'NP tAtlat method. USS billions)                        /118      1 802      t 557
Averaoe annual Qrowth. 1992-98
Ponillatin f%l                                            12         1 2       1 1         P
Labor force %                                                                  IS       GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vttar available. 1992-9811                                 capita                        enrosment
Povertv (t of noDU,laton below national Doverfv line)
tIrban nonotlAtien t% of total /ooolation)                21         35         58
i ife exnectarny at birth (vears)                         66        6f          f8
Infant mortalitv (Oer 1.000 live births)                  22         37        38
Chitd malnutrition (% of children under 5S                           s0                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water t% of Dovulation)                    68         77         75
Illiterarov ( of DooLtlation aae ISr+                                16         14
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-aae ooDulation)    103        117        103               SaiSmoa
Male                                                   1I o       11        10S              Lower-middle-income group
Femral                                                1ino        118       10no
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                                      O10        0 19       0 18
Gross domestlir investmenlGcf)P                         35 2
Fxoorts of ooods and services/GDP                        18.2      32 3       353                       Trade
c,rnss domretic stavinns)GOnP                           -15 3
G rnss natiotnal savinnslirc-rP                         33 3
Current account halanre/l O)P                             7 9        4 7      11 4             .         /e                   n
Interest navnrantes/rP                                    1 3       06         0 8      Domestc                       Investment
Tolal debt/GOP                                          78.3       8t 5      107 1      Savigs
Total deht boervine/soxnrNs                    13 n      11 7        5 .9      5 A
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..               40 7
PresAnt vatl op f dehterinnrts                                     41 7
Indebtedness
1977.87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averaae annual orowth)
GOnP                                 -n 1       1 1       1 fi       1 3                          Samoa
GNP netr .anita                        1 6      on        0 4       ni 1                          Lower-middle-income group
SXDorts of ooods and services          1.7              -7 I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment ()
(% of GDP)
Anriculitiur                                                       17 3       166       1-
Industrv                                                           268        23 8        ,
Mvnnufacthirinn
gervices                                                           56(1       59 6 65    9s                              97   98
PrivAte consumnntinn                                    95 5                           .10
cenera) onverommnt consumntinn                           19 9                                          -GDI       :  GDP
lmDorts of ooods and services                           68.B       54.3       52.8
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998
(averrae annual orowth)
Anriculture                                       .        .        -8.2
lndi,strv                                                          -3 6i
Manufacturino                                   .         ..      -5.5
RPrvices                                                            7 5
Private consumotion                             1.2
CGenenral novernment consilnntion              -5 8
G ross domestic investment                     -7 3
Imnorts of noods and servicrs                  -2 6                 -6 2
Gross national nrodujot                         1 7       1 2       1 6        1 3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-orouo averaoe If data are missino. the diamond will
be inrnmtnlete
- 67 -



Samoa
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                              0
Consumer prices                                           4.6        6.9       2.2    20-t      
Implicit GDP deflator                                     4.6       11.8       4.0     10
Govemment finance                                                                       5
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                                    48.2       44.9             93    94    95    96    97    96
Current budget balance                            ..        .      20.1       17.4             -     GDP deflator  4 S  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..        0.3       2.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..        ..        15        20      1 T
Copra                                            .           .       3                  T
Coconut oil                                                          3 .D1
Manufactures                                              .*
Total imports (cif)                                                 100       104
Food                                                                                  s
Fuel and energy                                 .
Capital goods                                  ..         .          .         ..      0   _         _     _    9    5     9
Exoort Drice index (1995=1001                                                               92 ..
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                     .                              .              * Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP rato(%)
Exports of goods and services                    17       28         80        83      l5T
Imports of goods and services                    42       71        140       126        l
0gm
Resource balance                                -25      -43        -60       -43                      94   95   96   97   98
Net income                                        0        1          1         4       5 t
Net current transfers                            14       49         68        59
-30
Current account balance                           .        7          9        20
Financing items (net)                             .        2          2       -15
Changes in net reserves                          -3        -9       -11         -5    -60
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)           ..       37         64        61
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)                0.8       2.1        2.6       2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             31       81        156       188
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                            3        13         42        45                G 33
Total debt service                                3        8          5         5
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        0          1         1          E 10
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                10       148         8
Official creditors                             6         4         -1         1
Private creditors2                                                  0         0
Foreign direct investment                      0         1          4         3
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0                      D. 100
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        3          0         0      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   1        2          1         2      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         0      c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                       1        2          1         2
Interest payments                               0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                   1        1          0         2
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/22199
- 68 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Letter of Sector Policy
SAMOA: Health Sector Management Project
en  a.ww                                          a nn - m~~~~~~~~~~qw"f
T.h Wel Ban
Ibis Ha te. NAw.
Wsshlw Xc  0433
USA
Il no Gmvorln_4 of go ndrm
J.' Adl
w*#b. Wm
t ilwr3o owm  bfo Vhk 
(cl   hc"wn hv*fth We'E he%Wl                       a.ar rut*mr
w1.n oemsSiUp.* @et #K Uit ks   uCm  to~r peobeu k,*tS-hbra eWASS mpt
w      il V gmae'M WWW W* IlWbSUfIIW nr
IV*! *wnM   pww4p       a*v*% R4uoVW 64 400bngd    n tSwo  3r
Ckt   fLS       n       Nwiqa
?   ipt BWW O t plVW XS        4 ao
Ccwwi h0MVeW host "a euOm  Wfm  gcfasSWlnmmntMm
-Aa WA      .1 su e hnltb uqt t%nf rIte nera $=*t* M_ fefl
popDam" mobi.n      to mona,s . alden and e,wamna*.4 *wridl
sn owrlkuump 01MW Qonno  upSVW acs" 71vi uem a  rwp"1n"' Xo_d
a msinathistl'  ftkm$owomwg onm  *W     sno   Ma
- 69 -



S*-~..F4-w.ew * ***                     1~ 
h ~~~~w          w wll4of   3d  *h: W
e~Isp~wK  hNA 4ii wb$iWS aloft" s   eqWfuw has"  _Wn dkov. T? Ihrfa
heP WfXP@MWEI 1MG     biP &          spO       1, I. pro   e0
Offoak.tIVffIw*   bhW nOd# pm g an h_r t  .
2.  ~wm*V MMVI Puewl~IutWu Pmi.MI - t* WO. UNfPA*M Wr
**w apuuw The hoodift totms p mVwv pIww  bm ,vos MWA ris VW
OMWAb Of~ Ffnel  mmL1A%C elie..u   * a
d4onww. avf an w.hw  oe VA i4s in 4W*"6                     d
h      W  W  M9O    W*ttJI    w 0 UW ap w af  u/m n I_lt pVW     wvl
mm aw , hdl tooh:
r_Kth U         p ~W~  a *M  th  A4  ndLP. AaD*IM~b
- w~  U*        S*,  Si4S _ mw
3    QueUy 90w Ii.I - oWm  avIr    Ir_ wV Lw Vw us Mo u4 w
SAVV*fl mwwdad L   ioWft syas Wir b*tI8 *AkS bWA
rt* appropEm bunti ** bR*vtu - W4 *Ii ' biM b; gU11c :, INe  
t Sn               _~~~~~~~4wvw _4*f Ad h pdor
i3ow,ov Rka td MO AW   0 be pmwarewy %"od          vtw Mbb&W  to
-aw _  V   p        a1    b. prkdr, Wo .Ott*f9 UO
Wri -R0 aUh pjm wUtw VI so idef1omn W10 00 RW~W4 OtN W@oId bft(
*1+d atv. 0do1 A04ftrIa A"AM, JA Wm MWQ&A U)Mm .w w0a"
uamiaw sind m,%c#Iwr l%~*lqjoWVf &wwk pFwwAwd b A&aAl WMJ *1k dase
ghItf _W.AW Tll 4e*p_  BT6 vt a  u4
Th*  nhWe wy ft in         1* f%%M BWWRI  - W am
ewwo* wit be sppwmolM
- 70 -



172T40'                               172T0-                                 172)00'  .71T40
Fagamao.
6                                              ~~~~~~~~SAVAI'I                                                    A O
-    Falealu  Asa'                           *Samaloeulu                                                                              M -.O A         -
. AGfMVGAtS  GAO  GAGAIFOMAUGA          GAGA ,EMA U  A                                                                          SC   TOWNS
0 -; Foieima -                                             -    "'A . O Pu'aputJ     . . . . . . @ NATIONALCAPrfAL
A-TUPA?ITEA                                                '                        PA        C FlC                       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
FAtASALELEAGA
.        t          i                       -.  o -       ~OCEAN,- ----
. l3r 0t -  o        \ P ALA I                             &%Tuasivi
-~~~~~~                               0                    - ...Sbla. S ,  .aleog ^- --
oSatleolaga
~     Taga  SStupa'ite  Sfrait                                                      A  AEMAUGA                UCL
APO.^MA              Sa.e.imoa                            I /-   ;ISAND 
,                                 -ISLAND    Luelumeaga a                       Apia
Mulfanua                             a          -
MANONO. '                         's
PA  C           -'- ' ', ' - v '''- , ,. s 172     , ', :'   , - 'ISLAND  A ANA -,,
PA  C IT t Cl"TA                              OFleffal         TUAMASAOA                            -   AAFNT
OCEAN                                                                                                     -'/
1 ~~~~~~  - I .1                                                   Matautu2          c4a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Ltofaga-uta  ATUA  O..Np\4e
2 4 6 810 Iomeers                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAGA'EMAGAl  S-  [aao?Puas
A': 6  `8 -10"6,-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NU'LJTELE
ISLAND.
NUVULUA
Ihhmq, icspo&nd ~ V~ill a h,S fwd W',j kISLAND
C, -    Tabudns,cbs anktsSa~fcrnno
in  - -  s~mopd*fronh dT Wodk
~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                                    ...gmI IAw:4 d,'bi 009'- 
mdaneq,avaracr~~~~~~~~~~~~tnanofs,ds bovnkde ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .7



