Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3421 WSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Management Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3421 WSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 2000, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF 
SAMOA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year 
commencing July 1 and ending June 30;
(b)
“HRPIRD” means the Human Resource Planning, Information, 
Research and Development Unit in the Borrower’s Department of Health; 
(c)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Project Management Team” and “PMT” mean the Project 
Management Team established within the Borrower’s Department of Health to 
coordinate and manage Project activities;
(e)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators 
designed to measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project 
objectives as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
Page  3
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of 
Samoa on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 
2010, and ending June 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on June 1, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded, for 
Page  4
three consecutive years, the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
engineering, environmental, financial, and public health practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Page  5
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Page  6
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than January 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Borrower:
Treasury Department
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box Private Bag
Apia, Independent State of Samoa
Cable address:
Facsimile:
FINSEC
685-21312
Apia
685-24779
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Prague, Czech Republic, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
By /s/ Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  8
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
   1,420,000
80%
(2)
Goods
     760,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 90% of 
local 
expenditures for other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Training
     140,000
100%
(4)
Incremental operating
     180,000
100%
costs
(5)
Consultants’
   1,050,000
100% 
services
(6)
Unallocated
     250,000
TOTAL
   3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means expenditures 
for local transportation for Project related staff, subsistence during 
travel for Project related staff, and printing materials, office 
consumables and supplies for the PMT (excluding salaries).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 190,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5), on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 10, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) civil works; (b) goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) training; (d) incremental operating costs; and (e) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than 
$100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals 
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (i) the 
development and implementation of appropriate health policies, 
legislation and regulations, and (ii) the improvement of the functional 
and technical quality of health facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening the Policy Framework 
Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Health to review, 
develop and implement policies which define the funding and overall 
allocation of resources to health services and the planning of health 
services, through the provision of technical assistance, the carrying out 
of relevant studies, and the carrying out of stakeholder and beneficiary 
consultations. 
2.
Strengthening Health Care Legislation and Regulations
Strengthening health care legislation and regulations for current 
and emerging policies and activities through provision of technical 
assistance to the Department of Health and the Attorney General’s Office 
and the carrying out of stakeholder consultations.
3.
Strengthening Communication, Consultation and Evaluation
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Health to 
develop and implement a communication and consultation strategy for its 
health reform agenda through the provision of technical assistance and 
the carrying out of training in participatory processes for local level 
health staff.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Health to 
prepare, evaluate and monitor the progress of the health sector reform 
program and its impact on disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, through 
the carrying out of operational and evaluation studies and surveys.
(c)
Establishment and maintenance of an official policy and 
legislation register.
Part B:
 Quality Improvement
1.
Improvement of Facilities Planning
Preparation by the Department of Health of a health sector 
investment master plan, including equipment and maintenance plans, for 
the public sector health facilities, and development of institutional and 
human resource capacity to plan, manage and maintain capital assets, 
through the provision of relevant technical assistance and training.
2.
Improvement of the Quality of Key Infrastructure
(a)
Rehabilitation and improvement of the facilities at the 
Page  10
Tupua Tamasese Meaole Hospital, including provision of medical equipment.
(b)
Rehabilitation of selected rural health centers, including 
provision of medical equipment.
3.
Development of a Health Care Waste Management System
(a)
Development and implementation of an efficient and 
cost-effective health care waste management system based on international 
guidelines for safe disposal of medical waste, including review of 
applicable policies and regulations and development of operational and 
management procedures for waste disposal at public health facilities, 
through the provision of technical assistance.
(b)
Construction of a hospital waste incinerator, including 
provision of related vehicles and supplies for health care waste 
disposal, and provision of training to staff.
Part C:
Strengthening of Project Management and Coordination
Strengthening the Project Management Team through the provision of 
technical assistance and training.
***************************
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.  
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
Page  11
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $260,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, office equipment and minor medical equipment estimated to 
cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured from the 
World Health Organization or the IAPSO in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the first contract for goods procured 
from UN agencies, and the first contract for works in each calendar year, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured under 
international and national shopping procedures, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of 
any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on 
the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
Page  12
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for financial management, software customization, Project 
management, and health legislation, finance and planning, which are 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by enumerators under Part A.3 of the 
Project shall be in procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
Page  13
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain in 
its Department of Health the following staff with qualifications 
acceptable to the Association:
(a)
a community participation and communication officer in the 
Nursing Division;
(b)
a Project service planning officer in HRPIRD;
(c)
a Project policy analyst in HRPIRD;
(d)
a national health planner in HRPIRD;
(e)
a health care waste manager in the Preventive Services 
Division; and
(f)
a Project capital asset manager in the Corporate Services 
Division.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project:
(a)
a Project Coordination Committee with membership and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association;
(b)
a Health Aid Coordination Committee in the Department of 
Health with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; and 
Page  14
(c)
a Project Management Team in the Department of Health with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, including (i) a Project coordinator, 
(ii) a Project implementation specialist, (iii) a Project accountant, and 
(iv) a Project administrative officer.
3.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land 
or assets and to avoid the displacement of persons;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement 
of persons is unavoidable, before carrying out the works which would 
result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such 
persons, compensation in accordance with guidelines for compensation and 
resettlement approved by the Association; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more persons are adversely 
affected by the Project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with 
guidelines for compensation and 
resettlement approved by 
the Association and furnish such plan to the 
Association for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that 
all affected persons shall 
have been compensated in 
accordance with the provisions of said plan.
4.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association for its approval:
(a)
by December 31, 2001, a health sector investment master plan 
for the Tupua Tamasese Meaole Hospital; and
(b)
by June 30, 2003, a health sector investment master plan for 
the public sector health facilities in the rural areas.
5.
In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association for its approval:
(a)
by March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2001, and 
until completion of the Project, a rolling two-year health facility 
rehabilitation program, such program to be based on the master plans 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule; and 
(b)
not later than June 30, 2003, a list of rural health centers 
to be rehabilitated under Part B.2 (b) of the Project, which list shall 
be based on the master plan referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of this 
Schedule. 
6.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, by April 30 in 
each year, commencing April 30, 2001, and until completion of the 
Project, furnish to the Association for review and approval an annual 
work plan for the Project for the following Fiscal Year, and shall permit 
the Association to seek the views of bilateral and multilateral donors on 
such proposed annual work plan.
7.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association by May 
31 and November 30 in each year, commencing May 31, 2001, and until 
Page  15
completion of the Project, Project progress reports in a format and using 
indicators acceptable to the Association.  
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about July 31, 2003, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS)
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  16
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
Page  17
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
