Page  1
May 18, 1999
Hon.  Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 3017
Apia, Samoa
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of a proposed Health Sector 
Management Project (Bank-executed Portion) Grant TF025777
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred seventy seven thousand three hundred 
twenty United States Dollars ($277,320) (the Grant) to the Independent State of Samoa 
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry 
out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Country Director, Samoa
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
By /s/ Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi
Prime Minister & Minister of Finance
Date: June 15, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
proposed Health Sector Management Project, which has as main objective to enable 
sustainable improvement in health outcomes through policy and organizational reform, 
improved resource allocation, and improved efficiency and productivity, while 
containing costs (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant 
is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out of studies on: (i) incentives to improve performance of 
divisions within the Recipient’s Department of Health to meet projected goals, and 
(ii) financial and health accounting systems for expenditure analysis and monitoring 
to improve understanding of sources of funds and distribution of expenditures;
(b) development of a plan to improve local capability in planning the need for, 
and in maintaining and upgrading, health services facilities; and carrying out of 
Page  2
studies on innovative mechanisms to manage and provide regional health services, and 
on alternative business structures for selected hospital services, such as diagnostic 
services;
(c) carrying out of studies on the various options of financial risk sharing 
mechanisms, especially for catastrophic and tertiary care; and
(d) carrying out of studies on ways to strengthen capacity for identification 
and surveillance of non-communicable disease risk factors. 
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by February 28, 2001.  
After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall 
have been suspended.  IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn 
its request for IDA’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
