Environmental                       IV
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                      _____
Report E0041
Belarus -
Forestry Sector
Development Proj ect
EA Category A
1 of 5
January 1994
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF
RADIOLOGICAL CONSEQUENCES FOR
FORESTRY IN CONTAMINATED AREAS
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF
RADIOLOGICAL CONSEQUENCES FOR
FORESTRY IN CONTAMINATED AREAS
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF RADIOLOGICAL
CONSEQUENCES FOR FORESTRY IN CONTAMINATED AREAS
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
by
Joseph G. Szekely
Brian D. Amiro
Len R. Rasmussen
of
AECL RESEARCH, Pinawa, Manitoba, Canada, ROE 1L0
and
Barrie Ford
of
GENERAL WOODS AND VENEERS CONSULTANTS INTERNATIONAL, LTD.
Longueuil, Quebec, Canada, J4G 2H9
January 12, 1994
-This report wS prepared urander conirms go the World Bank,
and the infonnasion conained wihn ispropriet. "



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF RADIOLOCICAL CONSEQUENCES
FOR FORESTRY IN CONTAMINATED AREAS OF TH1E REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
J.G. Szewely, B.D. Amiro, L.R. Rasmussen and B. Ford*
AECL Research, Whiteshell Laboratories,
Pinawa, Manitoba, Canada, ROE ILO
*General Woods and Veneers
Consultants International Ltd
Longueuil, Quebec, Canada, J4G 2H9
The World Bank is evaluating a proposal for a loan to the Republic of Belarus for the forestry
sector. Belarus was affected by the radionuclide release from the nucleaf reactor accident at
Chernobyl in 1986. The accident contminated about 1.9 Mha of forests in Belarus with
densities of more than 1 Ci/km2 of 137CS representing about 24% of the Belarus forest area.
This is the minimum level of concem for radiation control, but there are many areas with
higher concentrations. Immediately following the accident, many short-lived radionuclides
were present, and the country was in an 'emergency situation regarding safety measures.
Today, the emergency situation has evolved into a maintenance problem where contaminated
areas are considered as a continuous impact on the forestry sector These contaminated forests
require special considerftions to ensure the safety of workers and the public.
Today, radiation exposure from 137CS, 90Sr and 239-1P is of concern, but 137Cs is the most
widespread contaminant and is the most limiting for the forestry sector as a whole. Most of the
37Cs iS in the leaf-litter layer of the soil because of the initial deposition to the soil surface and
to foliage that has subsequently fallen to the ground. Cesium-137 is slowly leaching downward
through the soil, but very litde has penetrated deepr than 20 cm. As the '37Cs leaches
downward, it becomes available for plant roots to access it and transport '37Cs into the growing
parts of the plant. Some of this is deposited in the newly formed wood and this is a major
consideration for utilization of wood products in the future. Some of the 137Cs deposited in
newly formed wood can also migrate into older wood that was formed prior to 1986. The data
indicate that the amount of wood contamination is increasing over time; however, predictions
of steady-state concentrations and the time to reach steady state are uncertain. A simple model
suggests that steady state may be reached between the years 2000 and 2010, but the
concentration will only decrease slowly after this time. It is lilely that only radioactive decay
will contribute to this decline at a rate of halving the concentration every 30 years. This means
that once wood has become contaminated, there is little advantage to wait for radioactive decay
to decrease the contanination.



- ii -
Safety calculations for both workers and the public have been made. The interim regulatory
levels of "'Cs in wood products, imposed by the former USSR, appear to include an adequate
level of safety for the use of most wood products by the public. These regulatory levels,
coupled with an assessment of risk to the public, are consistent with international standards.
The risk to workers handling wood in the processing industry would also be acceptably small.
However, the risk to workers in harvesting, process-waste handling and forest maintenance
should be considered as a greater problem, which requires institutional controls. These
workers form a critical group where safety measures and monitonng should be employed to
minimize the risk.
The Belarus govemment and supporting scientists are working on these issues and have
established procedures to ensure the safety of wood products. Implementation of some of these
regulations and monitoring procedures requires an investment in training and equipment. In
principle, it is possible to continue forestry in many of the slightly contaminated areas while
maintaining adequate protection for workers and the public.
It must be recognized that the radiation safety criteria are based on a very low risk. In many
cases, the risk experienced by forestry workers from activities such as operation of machinery
is greater han the radiological risk. Similarly the radiological doses received from natual
background radiation may be much greater than the contribution from Chernobyl-derived
radionuclides. Nevertheless, even though other nsks may be far greater, the analyses and
recommendations in this report are based on the assumption that the World Bank cannot support
practices that will expose workers to radiation doses in excess of Belarus or international
standards. If possible, the maximum dose from work should not exceed that allowed for the
general public and, failing that, it should not exceed that allowed for radiation workers.
The range of levels of contamination can vary by a large amount over some areas. Much of the
mapping has been done and foresters are aware of the areas that pose the greatest risks. From a
costbenefit perwective, contaminated forests should be broken into two mam classes. The
first includes slightly contaminated forests, nominally those with from 1 to 15 Ci/km2 of '37Cs.
These forests are being harvested at present and, with adequate quality-control procedures, can
produce safe wood products. These areas require mimmal levels of contamination control and
worker safety, and have a good chance of providing an economically good return on an
investment. Wood in these areas that meets the regulatory levels can be used freely with low
risk. Nevertheless, this wood is becoming increasingly more contaminated with time, and in
some areas is approaching the 15 Ci/km2 limit, which may be too contaminated for harvesting
in a few years. This problem should receive priority if this wood is to be salvaged. The
second class of forests from a costtbenefit viewpoint includes forests with more than 15 Cilam2
of 137Cs. Much more stringent quality-control and safety measures are required here, and many
of these trees are already too contaminated for many uses of wood products. The economics
here may not justify traditional harvesting, and the benefits of working in these areas mus: be
considered using different critria. The use of forestry in highly contminated areas includes
such ideas as forest-floor clean up, removal of contaminated outer parts of wood, and



- 111 -
nontraditional uses such as biomass for energy. The psychological advantage to mitigate the
problems in these areas is very important, but it cannot be justified on economic grounds. The
risk of undertaking mitigation in the highly contaminated areas should also be considered
because workers will receive additional radiation exposures dunng mitigation activities.
In all loreStS with more than 1 Ci/lm2 of IX7Cs wastes are an important issue. Tree branches,
bark and undergrowth tend to be more contmina  than wood and may require special
disposal methods. Ash from burning fuelwood is also a problem because 137CS becomes
concentrated in the ash. Additional investment in waste control would be required in some
contaminated areas. Belarus scientists have ongoing programs in these areas and also on the
use of forestry to rehabilitate contaninated areas.
In summary, the contaminated forests should be considered as two separate problems. About
87% of the contaminated forest area has less than 15 CiIlkm2 of 137Cs. Forestry can likely
pmceed in these areas with a minimal amount of additional expense for worker safety and
quality control. However, contamination in wood is increasing, and there is a need to act with
some urgency in certain areas. The 13% of the forests that are more highly contaminated
(about 2000 in2) should be considered separately as a mitigation problem with different values
of benefit weighed against cost. Operations in these more contminatd areas have a greater
risk to workers and a higher cost to benefit ratio economically, but are important for
psychological improvement and development of techniques to mitigate contaminated areas.
They only cover a relatively small area, and the additional cost for a small secion of forest
must be compared with the needs for forestry in the rest of the country.



IABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUlMARY                                                  i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGE:MENTS
DISCLAIMER
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                   1
1.1   RADIOECOLOGY OF FORESTS                                     1
1.1.1   Present Level of Contamination                      I
1.1.2   Future Level of Contamination                       1
1.2   PROECTION OF THE PUBLIC                                     2
1.2.1    Maximum Radiological Doses to the Public           2
1.2.2   Collective Doses to the Public                      2
1.3   PROTECTION OF WORKERS                                       2
i.3.1   Maximum Radiological Doses to Workers               2
1.3.2   Monitoring of Workers                               3
1.3.3   Special Safety Precautions                          3
1.4   ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS                                     3
1.4.1   CostlBenefit of Harvesting Contaminated Areas       3
1.4.2   Marketability of Wood Products                      3
1.4.3    Mitigation of Contminated Forests                  4
1.5   AREAS REQUIRING INVESTMENT                                  4
1.5.1   Short-Term Needs                                    4
1.5.2   Long-Term Needs                                     5
1.6   AREAS REQUIRNG FURTHER ASSESSMENT                           5
1.6.1   Radiation Protection Program                        5
1.6.2   Collective Dose Considerations                      5
1.6.3   Quality Control and Auditing                        5
1.6.4   Mitigation of Contaminated Areas                    6
1.6.5   Waste Management                                    6
2.  INTRODUCTION                                                        7
2.1   STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM                                     8
2.2   OBJECTIVE OF THE REPORT                                      9
3.  RECOMMENDED RADIATION SAFETY STANDARDS                             10
3.1   RADIATION PROTECTION IN BELARUS                             10
3.2   DEFINED PRACTICES                                           10
3.3   EXEMPION OF WOOD PRODUCTS                                   11
3.4   DOSE CONSTRAINTS FOR HARVESTING AND MILLING
ACTIVITIES                                                  11
3.5   SUMMARY                                                     12



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
4.  RADIOECOLOGY OF FORESTS IN BELARUS                             13
4.1   OVERVEMV OF RADIOLOGICAL SlTUATION                      13
4.2  THE RADIOECOLOGY OF FORESTS                              13
4.3   CONTAMINATION OF SOIL                                   15
4.4   CONTAMINATION OF TREES                                  16
4.4.1   Variability of Contamination                    16
4.4.2   Temporal Trends in Contamination                17
4.5  POSSIBLE SCENARIOS OF FUTURE CONTAMINATION               18
5. HARVESTING OPERATIONS IN THE CONTAMINATED FORESTS
IN BELARUS                                                    22
5.1   RADIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT OF THE STAND                    22
5.2   HARVESTING METHODS                                      23
5.3  ESTIMATED DOSE TO WORKERS FROM INHALATION DURING
HARVESTING                                              24
5.4  ESTIMATED IMMERSION DOSE TO WORKERS FROM
HARVESTING                                              25
5.5  ESTIMATED EXTERNAL DOSE TO WORKES FROM
HARVESTING                                              27
5.5.1   Groundshine                                     27
5.5.2   Dose from Deposition on Skin                    28
5.5.3   Doses to Forestry Workers in the Contmminated
Zones of Belarus                                28
5.6  ENVIRONMENTAL IMLICATiONS OF HARVESTING                  30
6.  PROCESSING                                                     32
6.1  PROCESSES CONSIDERED                                     32
6.2   RADIOLOGICAL DOSES TO WORKERS                           32
6.2.1   Transportation and Handling                     32
6.2.2   Wood Milling                                    32
6.2.3   Pulp and Biomass Processing                     34
6.3   CONTAMINATION CONTROL                                   35
6.4   MONITORING                                              35
7.  PUBLIC SAFETY                                                  36
7.1  SAFE LEVELS OF RADIONUCL1DEq ESTABLISHED FOR
FOREST PRODUCTS                                         36
7.2   RADIOLOGICAL DOSES TO THE PUBLIC                        37
7.2.1   Living in an All-Wood House                     37
7.2.2   Living in a Wood-Panelled House                 37
7.2.3   Exposure to Contaminated Furiture               38
7.2.4   Exposure to a Single Building Beam              38
7.2.5   Exposure to Wood Ash                             38



TABLE OF COQEMT (conclu, .d)
8. SUMMARY OF RADIOLOGICAL RISK                     41
9.  WASTE MANAGEMENT                                43
9.1  FORESTRY WASTE                              43
9.2  CLOTHNG AND PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT           44
9.3  MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT                     44
9.4  PROCESSING WASTES                          44
10. MITIGATION IN HIGHLY CONTAMINATED ZONES         46
11. COMPARISON OF DOSES FROM FORESTRY W1TH OTHER
EXPOSURES                                        52
12. MARKEIING POTENTIAL FOR PRODUCTS FROM THE
CONTAIINATED FORESTS OF BELARUS                 53
REFERENCES                                       55
APPENDIX A BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF IONIZING RADIATION
APPENDIX B FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF RADIOLOGICAL
PROTECTION
APPENDIX C REPORT ON THE CONFERENCE OF SPEciAiSTS OF
THE FAO/EAKJMOT WORKING GROUP ON THE
PROBLEM CAUSED BY RADIOACTIVE CONTAMMIATION
OF FORESTS AND POSSIBLE WAYS OF OVERCOMNG IT
IN THE FOREST INDUSTRY
APPENDIX D TRIP REPORT ON VISIT TO BELARUS INSTITUTE OF
FORESTRY AT GOMEL
APPENDIX E RADIATION PRJTECTION CONTROLS
APPENDIX F RADIATION REGULATIONS IN BELARUS FOR FORESTY
FIGURES



ACKNOWLEDzMENTS
The authors thuak aU of those who helped'with the project and provided data. Much of the
information was gathered from Belarus, and we ackmowledge the Ministry of Forestry,
Belgosles, the Ministry of Health, the Institute of Forestry at Gomel, and the Radioecology
Institute. We especially thank the Deputy Minister of Forestry, Mr. V. Zorin and Dr. V.
Ipatiev of the Gomel Institute. We also thank our translators Anatoly Rusyaev, Tanya Lavysh,
Alexey and Lena.
DISCLATIMER
This report was prepared by AECL as an account of work sponsored by the World Bank and
based on data that AECL did not collect. AECL makes no warranty or representation
whatsoever, expressed or implied with respect to use of any information or data disclosed in
this report, including merchantibility and fitness for a particular purpose, that such use does not
infringe on or interfere with privately owned rights, including any party's intellectual property,
or that this report is suitable to any particular user's circumstance, or assume responsibility for
any damages or other liability whatsoever (includng any consequential dzzaages, even if AECL
or AECL representative has been advised of the possibility of such dar.ages).



1. CONCLUIONS AND EMOMMENDATIONS
1.1       RADIOLECQO QY OF FORE M
1.1.1     Present Level of Contamination
The present level of coamina_ion is mostly dictated by the concentration of 137Cs in the upper
layers of the soil. Except in the 30-kn zone around Chemobyl, only 137Cs and "Sr need to be
considered as major contaminant problems.
1.1.2     Euture Level of Contamination
Over the next few decades, radiological decay will not contribute substantially to a reduction in
contamination. Radionuclides will slowly nigrate deeper into the soil profile, which will
reduce the radiation exposures received by people in the forest. Trees will become increasingly
contaminated and may not reach steady state untl between the years 1998 and 2010. Trees in
the 1 to 5 Ci/ka2 zone will likely remain safe for use, based on established safety cteria.
Some trees in the 5 to 15 Ci/km2 may exceed the safety criteria on average between die years
1996 and 2004. Trees in zones with mve than 15 CiIkn2 will soon be too contaminated for
many conventional uses. Therefore we recommend the following:
e No special precautions are needed in areas of Belarus with "'Cs levels below 1 Ci/kn2.
* Harvesting in the 1 to 5 C/ikn2 zone can proceed at a reasonable pace and wiM likely
remain within the safety crteria for workers and the public.
* Harvesting in the S to 15 Ci/km2 zone should be conducted within the next 5 years to
meet the safety criteria for conventional uses of wood products.
* Zones with greater than 15 Cillkm are unsuitable for conventional uses and should be
considered as zones requiring mitigation. Wood from these areas should only be used for
specialized products after a safety analyses has been done.
* Since tree bark is often more conta ted than the inner wood, debarking at the
harvesting site may be required to reduce the amount of contaminated waste transferred
to the mill.
These recommendations are subject to change depending cn data gathered during an ongoing
monitoring program.



-2 -
1.2       PROlKClON OF 33i PUBLIC
1.2.1     Maximum Radiological Doses to the Public
Most of the wood within the 1 to 15 CiIkm2 zones is within the radiological limit at prsent.
We suggest that this information be formalized and documented each year from forestry
records.
* Ile maximum radiological dose to the publi from wood products should not exceed
1 mSvla and the average individual dose should not exceed 10 pSv/a. These dose limits
apply to both domestk and intermational markets. If the maoimum or average dose is
expected to be exceeded, a cost-benefit analysis is required to justify use of the products.
1.2.2     Collective Doses to the Public
e The colective public dose should not exceed I person-Sv annualy from wood products.
If the 1 person-Sv cannot be met, further cost-benerit examination of the use of products
is needed to choose products that wiD produce the greatest benefit.
1.3       PROTECTION OF WORKERS
1.3.1     Maximum RadioloEical Doses to Workers
In Belarus, Russia and Ukraine, laws on radiation protection of workers and the public are
similar to those in other countries. The laws regulating radiation exposures during forestry
activities are being reviewed and new common regulations are expected to be in place within
one year. In addition, The Ministry of Health in Belarus has formulated new regulations on
radiation protection, which have been submitted to the government and are expected to De
proclaimed into law in the near future.
* The maximum radiological dose to workers should comply with the Belarus Ministy of
Health regulations, which for nonprofessional radiation workers is 5 mSv/a, at present.
* These regulations must be reviewed when necesry and, ideally, maximum worker
dose should be lower than 1 mSv/a, if possible (1 mSv/a is the new public dose limit
recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) and
the limit in the draft temporary regulations in Belams).
* Depending on how the Ministry of Health regulations are modified to reflect the ICRP
recommendations, workers who are likely to receive more than 1 mSvla should be
classified as professional radiation workers in the future. Although the dose limit
recommended by the ICRP is 20 mSv/a, we suggest that the maximum permissible doses
for these workers should remain at 5 mSv/a.



-3 -
1.3.2     MonitoTing    rk
* To ensure that dose limits are not exceeded, workers must be monitored while working
in areas with more than 1 Ckm1nX 37Cs. We suggest individual dosuneters for all or for a
representative sample of workers depending on the recommendations of the Ministr of
Health in Belams, an annual whole-body count, and that the worker dose records be kept
in a national computer database.
1.3.3     SMia Saft Preutlions
* A change of clothing should be made when working in areas with more than 1 Cilkmn2
'37Cs.
* Measurements in Belarns and independent modelling estimates of potential doses
received by workers suggest that no special harvesting equipment should be required for
conventional forestry workers in order to reduce radiological doses below the regulatory
maximum in the 1 to 15 Ci/km2 zone. A restriction in work time is sufficient to reduce
doses in the more highly conta ted portions of this zone.
- Workers in zones with more than 15 Ci/km2 either require special precautions or must
strictly limit the time spent in these areas.
1.4       ECONOMIC CONSIDERA1IONS
1.4.1     CosUBenefit of Harvesting Contaminated Areas
Given that minimal worker (clothing, monitoring) and public safety requirements (certification,
administration) are needed for present harvesting in the zones with less than 15 Cilkm2 of
137CS, we conclude that
3 There is a positive costlbenerlt to harvest areas with less than 15 Ci/km2.
This conclusion only applies until the contaminaton levels in trees from the 5 to 15 Cilkm2
zone reach concentrations where wood no longer meets safety ciiteria for conventional uses.
1.4.2     Marketability of Wood Products
* The safety cite  and quality-control progams proposed by the Minity of Forestr
in Belarus are sufricient to protect workers and the public. Public perception of the risks
can be reduced througb education, and rigorous certification and auditing. A consistently
safe harvesting program should ensure domestic marketability.
* The competition of international markets will likely demand that wood from areas with
more than 1 Cilkm2 be excluded; a certification plan to assure this, could help Belarus
gain a market share for its wood from noncontaminated areas.



-4-
* If wood from areas wFith more than 1 CikM2 137CS S marketed interMationally, a
certification program, such as the SGS Silviconsult, Limited's Certification of Quality
and Quantity, should be put in place to assure importers of the radioactivity level within
the product.
1.4.3     Mitigation of Contaminated Forests
Mitigation of forests in areas with more than 15 Ci/km2 could be costly and it poses potential
exposures to workers in excess of the dose limit for members of the public. Nevertheless, the
psychological and long-term benefits to mitigation are important. These areas only cover about
10% of the contaminated forests. Therefore, we recommend the following:
* In areas with more than 15 Uilm2, mitigation of contsmination should be approached
as a dean-up activity and should not be explicitly tied to the forestry industry nor assessed
using economic criteria. These areas should be considered as a separate problem outside
of the normal forestry planning for Belarus.
1.5       AREAS REOURG          V
1.5.1     Short-Tern Needs
Assuming that conventional harvesting continues in contminated areas with less than
15 CiIkM2, we reed to ensure the safety of workers and the public. Therefore, we recommend
that
Environmental moitoring progrms such as those put in place by the Minist  of
Foreshry and the Belarms Research Institute of Forestry in Gomel should be maintained.
These long-term studies of selected forest plots will identify changes in radioactivity in the
forest. Support of these activities will strengthen marketing efforts for wood products,
increase research activity in Belarus and add to the international knowledge base in
radioecology.
* A quality control program should contimne to ensure that only safe wood products are
marketed. The program should include computer databases of radionucide
concentrations in timber and wood products so that ofrwdals can easily show that they are
meeting regulations.
* The radiation dose history of workers should be accumulated in a computer database so
that the dose received by workers in each enterprise and in the whole industry can be
easily seen and analysed.
* An independent auditing program of the radionuclide concentrations in timber and
wood products (ideally involving a recognized international group) should be established
as a further check to gain consumer confidence. The auditing program should also
consider worker safety.



-5 -
* Monitoring equipment for contamination control between zones should be upgraded
and a quality-assured program of contamination control established.
1.5.2     Long-Term Needs
The long-term needs involve continuing research and monitonng, especially in the areas of
forest radioecology and technology development. This research will also be of great benefit to
the international community in the event of a future release of contamination. Therefore, we
recommend that
* Research should continue in the general area of forest radioecology and in the
development of technologies to decrease radiological doses to workers and the public.
* Research to rnd environmentally safe uses of contaminated forests should be supported
in established research institutes.
* Communication and research involving Belarus forest radioecologists and international
radioecologists should be enhanced, perhaps through the establishment of an active
network of scientists.  tlishment of an International Institute for research in one of
the affected countries, supplying travel grants for scientias from Belarus to anend
conferences and visit their coDeagues, and the establishment of computer (Internet) links
for scientists in Belarus are examples of cost-effective opportunities for financial support.
1.6       AREAS REOUIRING FURTHER ASSESSMENT
The following items were beyond the scope of the present assessment: we include these
recommendations to list areas where future work is needed.
1.6.1     Radiation Protection Program
A radiation protection program should be established to encompass forest activities in
all contaminated areas, based on different levels of protection in areas with less than
15 Ci/kmn and more than 1! Ci/km2 of 37Cs. Worker safety and conation control
should be considered.
1.6.2     Collective Dose Considerations
* The proposed end uses of wood products should be evaluated to determine the expected
the colective dose limit. If the annual collective dose exceeds 1 person-Sv, then the
benefit of various practices and products must be evaluated.
1.6.3     Ouality Control and Auditing
* A quality control and auditing progam should be established and ratffied by all
interested groups. International certification programs such as that of SGS Silviconsult,
Limited should be considered.



-6-
1.6.4     Mitiaton of Contaminated Areas
Many plans have been presented for mitigation of contaminated areas. We recommend that
* Funding should only be provided to those plans that minimze present and future risk to
workers and the public. They should consider the relative merits of a practice and the
doses should be as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA), economic and social factors
being taken into account. An asesnt should show that the mitigtion plan does more
good than harm.
1.6.5     Waste Management
* A waste manageent strategy should be put in place to encompass by-products of wood
harvesting, milling and fuelwood ashes.
* An effective strategy should be developed to produce profitable products and reduce
waste volume by using contamiated wood. Research in this area should be supported
fmancially.



-7 -
2. INTRODUCTION
The Republic of Belarus has approximately 409% of its land area forested and the forestry sector
provides a major source of employment. Forestry has the potential for considerable growth as
the forest management techniques and manufacuring facilities are upgraded and modernized.
Approximately 20% of this forest, however, is contminated with radionuclides from the
Chernobyl accident.
The Government of Belarus has requested that the World Bank finance a forestry development
project, which includes harvesting and amelioration in the forests contaninated by the
Chernobyl accident fallout. For the project to meet World Bank guidelines for environmentally
sensitive projects, an environmental assessment is required. This report uses data and
information gathered in Belarus to provide an environmental assesment of forest use in
Chernobyl-affected areas of Belarus. We have approached this assessment in a manner that
will ensure that a potential World Bank loan will meet present international safety standards and
stand up to scrutiny. The report contains an analysis of existing data on radiological safety in
harvesting and processing of wood, public safety in product use, and forestry development in
the Chernobyl-affected areas of Belarus using information gained from local foresters and
scientists. Their information is used to deterine the time course of contamination buildup in
various tree species under different gmwth conditions. Thus, the effect of harvest time on
radionuclide content of wood and dose to workers is discussed for &hfferent tree species in
different locations.
Estimates for the expected inhalation, immersion and external doses for forest workers are
calculated for the various zones of contamination using conservative methods. In addition,
when available the dose history of forestry workers from the contaminated areas and field
measurements of contaminated trees provide factual data for the analysis. We include an
assessment of regulations and procedures in Belarus to establish that they are acceptable on
scientific and commercial grounds.
Other aspects of the environmental assessment, such as resource management, product
development and waste management, are discussed in less detail. We have identified areas
where additional information is needed to strengthen the assessment. The report includes
discussions of
1. Worker radiological safety in both harvesting and processing (Procedures should
meet national and internatonal standards and follow the as low as reasonably
achievable (ALARA) principle;
2. Product monitoring and public safety standards in harvesting, processing and
transportation;
3. Contamination containment from harvesting equipment and during transportation;
4. Quality standards and export policy;



- 8-
5. Disposil of radioactive waste including industrial off-cuts, ash, liquors from
pulping, etc.;
6. Use of contaminated wood as fuel (An analysis is needed to identify when it is safe
to burn and to guarantee against buming when it is not.);
7. Post-harvest soil management;
S. The Ministry of Forestry's oversight and regulatory functions by contamination
zone;
9. Resource management of zones that are too contaminated to harvest in the short-
term future; and
10. Management strategies for the medium and long term.
The items are discussed as completely as possible with the infonnation we were able to gather
from the sources in Belarus. Areas where more infonnation or analysis are needed are
identified in the Conclusions and Recommendations Section I of the report.
2.1      STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM
About 24% of the national forest (approximately 1.9 million ha) is contaminted with long
half-life (30 a) cesium-137 ('37Cs) and strontium-90 ("Sr) to various degrees as listed in
Table 2. 1.
T-ABLE 2.1
AREAS OF FOREST IN BELARUS AFFTED BY CONTAMINATION
OF '37Cs FROM CHERNOBYL
Zone        Radioactivity Level         Forest Area
' Cilu2 137CS               (Hha)
1 to 5                                  1.38
2               5 to 15                  0.33
3              15 to 40                  0.17
4                >40                     0.04
Since the tree species in the contaminated areas are valuable (see Figure 1), the challenge
before the the govemment of Belarus is to salvage the minimally contaminated forest stock



-9 -
before the contamination increases, while at the same time protecting the forestry and mill
workers, the population living near or in the contaminated areas, and the general public in
Belaxus from potential adverse health effects. This requires effective government regulations, a
monitoring program, and continued research on the transport of Chernobyl contamination in the
environment.
The government of Belarus is proposing to caffry out the following activities in the areas with
*acceptable" levels of contamination (under 15 CiIla2):
a) In the mature stands, log timber and process the wood into commercial products;
b) In the immatre stands, carry out minimal forest activity; and
c) Salvage firewood from the above operations.
In the areas with contaminations levels of greater that 15 Ci/km2 the government proposes to
a) Protect the forests from fires;
b) Perform "land amelioration" such as reforestation of farms and locations
abandoned because of the contamination levels; and
c) Protect highly contuminated resources and restricting access to t9'.ise areas.
2.2      OBWlCTIVE QF THE REPORT
the object of this report is to use the observed levels of radionuclides in trees and in forest
land, and the forestry practices in Belarus to make an environmental assessment of the effects
of forestry activities. The main items of concern in this discussion are worker safety, safety of
the public and the acceptability to consumers of wood and wood products produced from these
forests. To this end we have made predictions on the accumulation of radioactive cesium in
trees and estimated doses to workers and the consumers of the wood products. Since at the
present time and in the future 137CS is and will be the most abundant radionuclide in the
contaminated area, it is used in the calculations and discussions in this report. The radionuclide
9OSr is the other abundant long-lived nuclide in the contaminated forest, but it is present at a
lower concentration and is of most concern for internal and skin exposures. It is only discussed
when the dose it produces is significant or its special chemical or biological properties are
important to the discussion. The report focuses on activities in the 1 to 15 Ci/lm2 '37Cs zone,
which represents 87% of the contaminated forest in Belarus (see Figure 2). Forestry activities
in more highly contaminated zones will be discussed in less detail.
In order to put the discussion of radioactive contamination in context, a discussion of biological
effects of radiation and principles of radiation protection are included in Appendixes A and B.



- 10-
3. RECOMMENDED RADIATION SAFETY STANDARDS
3.1      RADIATlON PROTECTION IN BELARUS
With the break up of tie former Soviet Union, the individual members of the Community of
Independent States (CIS) are developing their own national radiation standards and regulations.
Development is more critical for Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus because they have to deal with
the aftermath of Chemobyl. At the present time, Belarus is using the general regulations of the
former USSR in addition to additional laws that have been passed by the Belarus state.
The regulatory limits for maximum permissible exposure of radiation workers and members of
the public in Belams are 50 mSvla for 'professional' radiation workers and 5 mSv/a for the
public. Presently, forestry workers in the Belarus forests are not classified as pmfessional
radiation workers and their doses are limited to less than 5 mSv/a. A sievert (Sv) is a unit of
radiological dose, equal to one joule of energy absorbed per kilogram of tissue, modified by a
suitable weighting factor.
As is the situation in many other countries, the CIS countries are working to harmonize their
regulations with the International Comnussion on Radiological Procion (ICRP) 60 (199 la).
The development of common radiation protecdon and safety regulations for foresters in
Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine was on the agenda and discussed at a conference in Mogilev held
1993 November 1 1 among the three states' Health Ministries. Representatives expect to finish
writing new regulations w1olin one year. We have been told that the Belarus Health Ministry
has already submitted new regulations for acceptance by the government. Draft regulations in
Belarus call for a maximum permissible exposure of 1 mSv/a for forestry workers and to
restrct the amount of time a worker can stay in each contaminated zone to guarantee
compliance.
The recommendations made in this report are based on ICRP 60, the fundamental principles of
radiological protection descnbed in Appendix B, and established radiation protection practices
followed at AECL Research owned nuclear facilities in Canada. We feel that our approach and
recommended controls will satisfy any new regulations adopted by the Belarus govemment as
well as the radiological requirements of the intemnational radiation protection community.
3.2      DEFINED PRACTICES
The distinction between practices and intervention (see Appendix B) is of particular importance
to the situation in Belarus since the area is contaniinated by Chermobyl fallout and people are
already living and working wiffin contanination zones and receiving radiation exposures. The
reduction of these existing exposures is a matter of intervention and is beyond the scope of this
report
Harvesting and milling activities in the contamination zones and the end use of contaminated
wood products are practices that are likely to increase the radiation exposure already being
received by workers and the public. These will be considered practices subject-to radiation
protection controls (see Table 3. 1).



- 11 -
TABLE 3.1
DEFINED PRACTICES AND ACQTVITIES
1. Forest harvesting in contamination zones
2. Killing and Processing of contaminated vood
3. Use of contaminated vood products
3.3      EXEMPTION OF WOOD PRODUCTS
We recommend that before the harvesting of the contaminated Belarus forests can be
considered justified, the end use of wood products should be exempted from regulatory control.
The following criteria are recommended for exemption:
1. The maximum dose received-by any member of the public from the use of a
product does not exceed 1 mSv in one year, and the average expected dose in one
year is less than 10 JSv; and
2. The collective dose resulting from aU products produced in one year is no more
dtan 1 person-Sv.
Critena 1 will determine the maximum permissible activity concentration for a wood product to
be exempt from regulatory concern. Because the Chernobyl accident has already impacted on
the collective doses received by the world population, we do not feel the collective dose can be
ignored, even though potential individual doses may be very small. The 1 person-Sv critienon
is the level of collective dose where the choice of wood product is not important. If the
collective dose is expected to exceed 1 person-Sv, then further examination of the choice of
products will be required to determine the products that will be the most cost effective to
produce while minimizing the collective dose (i.e., provides the greatest net benefit).
3.4      DOSE CONSTRAINTS FOR HARVESTING AND MILLING ACTrVrrIES
In contrast to the Belarus authorities, we consider the forestry and mill workers to be radiation
workers as there is a reasonable likelihood that they will be receiving occupational exposures
from forestry and processing activities in the conuminated zones and involving contaminated
wood. As such, the ICRP 60 recommended individual dose limit of 20 mSv/a averaged over
5 years applies. However, we recommend that individual dose constraints be applied to these



- 12 -
activities (1) to ensure doses, which may result from activities, are kept ALARA; and (2) so
that workers will not need to be classified as professional radiation workers (a requirement of
the Belarus Health Ministry). The 5 mSv/a limit is a level we feel should be achievable under a
well-managed radiation protection program.
Recommended dose constraints are summarized in Table 3.2. The dose constraint for members
of the public is 1 mSv in one year and for forestry and mill workers 5 mSv in one year.
TABI 3.2
RECOMMENDED INDIVIDUAL DOSE CONSTRAINTS
Forestry and
Type                   Mill Vorkers       Public
'hole-body               5 nSv/a           I uSv/a
(effective dose)
Lens of the eye         15 mSv/a          15 nSv/a
Skin                    50 uSv/a         50 nSvIa
(hands and feet)
3.5      SUMMARY
The recommended criteria to be used to determine whether the harvesting of the Belarus forests
is justified are as follows:
I. The use of wood products is to be exempted from regulatory control with the
maximum individual dose expected to be received by any member of the public
less than 1 mSv and the average dose less than 10 LSv in a year, and the collective
dose no more than 1 person-Sv per year. A higher maximum or collective dose
would zequire a cost-benefit analysis before manufacturing the wood products.
I. The additional dose to members of the public from harvesting and milling
activities to be kept less than 1 mSv per year and ALARA.
mI. The additional dose to forestry and milling workers to be kept less than 5 mSv per
year and ALARA.



- 13 -
4. RADIOECOLOGY OF FORESTS IN BELARUS
4.1      OVERVIEW OF RADIOLOGICAL SlTUATION
Radionucides were deposited over a wide area immediately following the Chernobyl accident.
Much of the initial radioactivity was contributed by very short-lived fission products such as
131j, which has a half-life of only 8 days. The short-lived products have since decayed away
and are no longer of concern. However, there are several longer lived radionuclides that are of
concern. The most important ones are '37Cs, 90Sr and 2"NPu, which have radiological half-
lives of 30, 29.1 and 24 065 years respectively. Cesium-134 is also still present, but has a
half-life of only 2.06 years. Most of the radioacivity in areas remote from the immediate
3D-km zone around Chernobyl is caused by 137Cs. The International Chernobyl Project created
maps of contmination zones for each of the radionucides 137Cs, 9OSr, and 23924'Pu (IAEA
1991), and additional maps have also been published by the Belarus government.
Contaminated zones are classified based on the need for contamiination control: for 137Cs and
90Sr, this is a minimum value of 1 Ci/kml (37 kBq/m2; I Ci = 3.7 x 1010 Bq), and for
23924(Pu, this is 0.1 Ci/ln2. Radioactivity is more widely spread than is indicated in these
maps, but it is at levels where control of contamination is not normaUy expected. For
comparison, Bunzl and Kracke (1988) estimate 137Cs deposition from atmospheric weapons'
testing up to 1984 at about 0.1 Ci/knfi in Bavaria.
The greatest area is contaminated by '37Cs, with about 1.5 Mha of forest affectd. For aU
discussion purposes, we refer to the contamination zones based on 137Cs radioactivity.
Strontium-90 is also a concern in these ares. The problems with 29-2'Pu contamination are
mostly within the 30-km zone around Chernobyl. Four zones of 13CS contamination have been
delineated: to 5! 5 to 15, 15 to 40 and >40 Cilkma.
4.2      THE RADIOECOLOGY OF FORESTS
The radionucides or. -oncern have become an integal part of the forest ecosystem following
the initial deposition from the atmosphere. This initial deposition was through both wet and
dry processes. Wet deposition is caused by the washout of radionuclides from the atmosphere
by precipitation whereas dry deposition includes settling of particles and sorption of gases. The
radioactivity was deposited to soil and to forest plants; both the foliage and bark of trees were
contaminated during the accident by direct deposition in 1986.
This contaminated foliage and bark were important sources of radionucide transfer to the
internal parts of the tree immediately following the accident. Since 1986, most of the
contamninated foliage has died and fallen to the ground, including long-lived needles of
coniferous species such as pine and spruce. This has increased the contribution to the top
layers of the soil, which were also conaminated by direct deposition and by precipitation that
washed some radionuclides from vegetation to the soil. Transfer of radionuclides to the wood
of trees during this initial contamination period was largely to the outer layers of the wood near
the bark. This cambial layer is close to the contaminated bark and is also the prinie conducting
tissue that could receive radionucides transported from contarinated foliage to the rest of the



- 14 -
tree. Some lateTal movement into the centrl parts of the wood is also possible, but this is
relatively slow.
The water-conducting xylem parts of the tree are subject to radionuclide contamination if
contaminated water is absorbed through root uptake. In this process, radionuclides in the soil
diffuse through the root and are transported up the stem with water. This is the primary
contamination route in contaminated soil. However, the tree rooting zone is at some depth,
such that root uptake was not an important contamination process initially because only the soil
surface was contaminated. However, this is the most important contamination pathway for
trees now and into the future. The center part of the tree, the 'heartwood," is impregnated
with resins in many hardwood species so that transport of water and thereby radionuclides is
limited. However, studies have shown that 137Cs deposited in forests from atmospheric
weapons tests has migrated into wood that was formed in previous years (Kohno et al 1988,
Kudo et al. 1993), i.e., tree rings formed in all years have 137Cs. This contrasts to plutonium,
which tends to stay in the part of the wood that was formed while the plutonium was absorbed
by the roots (Kudo et al. 1993). We therefore expect that over long periods of time, many tree
species will have 137CS contamination thrughout the wood. This is especially true for pine and
spruce, and has been confirmed by measurements made by scientists at the Gomel Forestry
Institute.
The transport of radionucides in the forest environment depends on water transport.
Radionuclides such as Cesium and Strontium dissolve in the water and either move through
mass flow with the water or molecular diffusion. Strontium moves more rapidly than Cesium.
Chemically, Cesium behaves similarly to potassium whereas Strontium more closely resembles
calcium. These chemical analogues also cause complications in nature, because the amount of
potassium and calcium in soil causes some variability in transport owing to chemical exchange.
The chemical forms of radionuclides can also be complex and were varied during the release
from Chernobyl. In some areas, Cesium is more soluble than in other areas, and tl}ere is also a
phenomenon klown as 'hot particles,' where radionuclides are largely fused and insoluble.
Radionuclide transport through soil is downward via leaching by precipitation. Upward
transport is also possible, but is unimportant when the primary radionuclide contamination
source is at the surface. The speed of leaching depends on the amount of precipitation and the
severity of precpitation events. Severe precipitation events are more efficient at leaching. The
soil type is also important. Soil particle size determines the rate of water movement and the
soil constituents determine the amount of radionuclide that will bind and not be easily
transported. Large amounts of clay and organic matter will retard radionuclide transport.
Specific knowledge of these factors can be used rigorously to predict the rate of transport of
radionuclides through the soil profile. However, they vary by large amounts throughout the
contaminated forests of Belarus such that there could be orders of magnitude variability among
sites. It is likely that the rate of transport of radionuclides to the rooting zone of trees could
vary by as much as decades among sites. Hence a single accurate prediction of radionuclide
transport through soil is impractical and cannot be applied over a large region, and may evtn be
incorrect over smaller areas such as a few hecwes.



- 15 -
In an unmanaged natural forest, there are few methods whereby radionuclides can be purged
from the ecosystem. Eventually, radionuclides will be leached into the groundwater and leave
the drainage basin; however, this is a slow process, and some quantity will remain because of
chemical exchange with the soil. Lateral erosion of soil into surface waters will also remove
some radionuclides; nevertheless, this is most important in rugged terain, which is largely
absent throughout most of Belarus. Radionucides will be taken up by plants through root
sorption but these will return to the soil as foliage and tes die. This creates a constant
replenishment of the radionuclide concentration in the soil litter layer. Forest fires are a rout
whereby radionuclides can leave as particles and in some cases, as g.cses. Wind erosion can
also suspend some contamination into the atmosphere.
In a managed forest, radionuclides can leave the area with harvested products, such as wood.
Contamination can also be spread through attachment to equipment, vehicles and people.
Dusty logging operations and roads will also cause increased suspension into the atmosphere by
wind transport.
Radionuclides decay naturally through a radioactive-decay process that depends on the half-life
of the radionuclide. For example, only half as much "37Cs will be present in another 30 years,
and only one quarter as much in 60 years. Relying on radiological decay is a reasonable
alternative for radionuclides with short half-lives, especially with half-lives of less than one
year. We have plotted the effect of radioactive decay on the amount of radionuclide remaining
over the next 100 years. Figure 3 shows the decay for 137Cs, '34Cs, '0Sr and 239Pu assuming a
single unit of initial radionucide in 1986. The decay of 134Cs is sufficiently rapid that very
little will be left in a few decades. However, the decay of 73Pu is negligible and the amount of
137Cs and "'Sr left even after one century is still about 10% of the initial inventory. If we
consider radioactive decay only, then areas with more than 10 CiWkm2 today will still be
considered contaminated 100 years from now.
4.3      CONTAMINATION OF SOIL
The Belarus Ministry of Forestry has established 102 sampling sites for monitoring over time.
These plots were established in 1993 and are spread throughout various forest types and
contaninations zones. At each site, 16 soil cores are extracted from within a grid of
approximately 50 x 50 m. Typical profiles from the 1993 sampling are shown in Figure 4.
The soil is measured at 1-cm intervals to a depth of 10 cm and at 5-cm intervals between 10 and
20 cm. We have expressed the concentrations in units of kBqImn/cm to allow comparison
between the 1-cm-thick soil layer intervals and the 5-cm-thick soil layer intervals.
The greatest concentrations are still in the soil litter layer. This is where deposition occurred
initially, and this layer also has a high organic matter content that is efficient at retaining many
radion-ucides. As mentioned previously, this layer also receives new inputs of radionuclides
from newly fallen contannnated leaves. Although this increases the absolute inventory, based
on concentration, this will become a more diluted source over time because new leaves are less
contminated.



- 16-
Contamination has leached throughout the soil profile, even down to 20 cm. These data are
consistent with measurements made by other groups (Tikhomirov et al. 1993). Three different
contanination zones are represented inl Figure 4 and they all show similai patterns. Expected
background concentrations of '"Cs in scil vary regionally, but should be on the order of
20 Bq/lkg, caused mostly by fallout from atmospheric weapons' testing (Bunzl and Kracke
1988). Within the forest, trees access radionuclides in all soil layers to some extent, and the
weighting of the importance of any given soil layer is difficult to predict.
4.4       CONTAMINATION OF TREES
4.4.1    Variability of Contamination
Concentrations of 137Cs are measured in trees at each of the 102 monitoring sites established by
the Belarus Ministry of Forestry. At each site, cores are extracted from each of five trees of
available tree species. Branches, bark, tree saplings, shrubs and ground vegetation are also
collected and measured for 137Cs. Figure 5 shows data on different tree parts for spruce, pine
and birch in different contamination zones. Missing bars in the graphs reflect an incomplete
data set at present and do not suggest that concentrations are low in these parts. In aU cases,
wood is the least contaminated part of the tree. Tree saplings are usually most contaminated,
followed by tree foliage (mature trees) and bark. Typicatly, the bark is 3 to 5 times more
contamninated than the wood. In some cases, such as that for spruce, areas with lower soil
surface contamination (e.g., 1.7 Cifkm3) may have greater contamination in trees than sites
with greater surface contamination (22.6 CiIkmn). This variability indicates the difficulty in
generalizing about regions as a whole. It is liklly caused by different soil types and chemical
forms of the initial contamination. This poor correlation between concentrations in soil and
vegetation has been observed in r.any other studies of radionuclides, even when the primary
source of contamination is the soil (no atmospheric deposition) and the experiment is well
controlled.
Figure 5 indicates that wood is still relatively less contaminated than other forest components
and that the utlization of parts such as bark and branches (mcluding foliage) could pose a
greater problem. We assume that in 1993 the foliage contamination is mostly caused by root
uptake from the soil because essentially all of the foliage would have developed after 1986.
Higi; concentrations are found in the tree saplings, which have a shallower rooting zone and
absorb radionuclides readily through their roots as they are actively growing. It is possible that
these new trees will become much more contaninated than mature trees because they will be
exposed to '37CS in the soil throughout their growth. Reductions in radionuclide concentrations
in the soil over time should help to rduce this potential contaminabon to some extent. Some
ground flora species, such as fems and Lycopodium, are even more contaminated, but these
have little impact on the harvesting of wood products.
The radionuclide concentrations in bark are caused by the initial deposition to the outside of the
bark from the atmosphere and by the inclusion of the cambium layers next to the bark in this
fraction. This caxnbium layer includes radionucides redistributed in the tree through
translocation between the leaves and roots.



-17-
The available data on wood concentrations from the 1993 sampling are shown in Table 4.1.
The data range between about 60 and 1000 Bq/kg for all species throughout the 1 to 15 Ci/km2
zone. At any one site, the concentration can vary by at least a factor of 3 among different
species and it is likely that this variability may even be greater. Different areas with about
5 CiIkm2 (Sites 6 and 85) can have wood concentrations differing by an order of magnitude and
it is likely that sites quite close together may differ by this amount also.
TABLE 4. 1
MEAN CONCENTRATIONS OF 134,137Cs IN WOOD
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY MONrRN  SIIS )3
Site      Surface    Pine   Spruce   Birch    Aspen    Oak         Alder
Contamination                     (Bq/kg)
(Cl/kR2)
5          1.78               70       180      190
6          5.3                65       151      163      159
12          1.7               131       132
26          2.8         78
36         22.6               155       256
55          2.1                                           120        137
64          0.8         92
68          2.6        183
69         11.2                         328
84          4.4        649
85          4.8       1040
97         26.2                         767     1511
4.4.2      TermoRl Trends in Contamination
Data sets of changes in 137Cs in tees over time were obtained from tfie Gomel Institute of
Forestry and from the Belarus Minstry of Forests. These are mostly based on penodic random
samples. However, the 102 monitoring plots established in 1993 by the Belarus Ministry of
Forests will allow future time rends to be followed. Data for five species are presened in
Figure 6 for the period 1987 to 1990. These data were obtained from the Gomel Institute and
are averages normalized to a contamination level of 1 Cilkm2 of 137Cs. The trend for all
species is an increase in radioactivity in wood over time. Figure 7 shows similar trends for the
period 1990 to 1992, provided by the Belarus Ministry of Forests in three different
contamination zones. Over this period, the mean annual percentage increase in radioactivity
for all species varies between 40% and 50% depending on the zone.



- 18 -
The data from the two different groups may not be totally independent, but there are some
consistent trends over time. These are shown in Figure 8 along with two possible fits to the
data. The best fit is an exponential increase in 137CS in wood with a statistical coefficient of
variation (r2) of 0.99. A linear model does not fit as well (Figure 8). The data are averages of
five species for the 1 to 5 Ci/kn2 zone. We assume that similar trends hold for the higher
contamination zones; however, wood will be more contaminated.
Data presented by Tikhomnirov (1992) indicate that tres in some other areas near Chernobyl are
increasing in radioactivity whereas others are decreasig. Ihe observed decrease after the
initial contamination is probably caused by the loss of radionuclides that were deposited from
the atmosphere. The eventual increase in some areas is now being caused by root uptake,
whereas in some other areas, root uptake has not yet become an important factor.
Decreases in contamination, or at least steady-state conditions, are now being observed in
Sweden. In the north of Sweden, where precipitation is less and a larger portion is in the forn
of snow, concentrations in trees are not changing with time now. In the south, they are starting
to decrease. The long-term situation is difficult to predict, but these changes may be only
caused by changes in the amount of radioactivity deposited initially. Root uptake may not be
an important consideration here yet. Also, the chemical forms of radionuclides deposited in
Sweden were likely different from those deposited closer to the accident site in Belarus.
Therefore, the direct applicability of the trends now being observed in Sweden is uncertain.
4.5        POSSIBLE SCENARIOS OF FUTURE CONTAMINATION
The temporal changes in radionucide concentrations in wood are central to the plans for
harvesting of the contanminated forests. However, the possible trend of contamination in trees
is very difficult to predict, and we have not found any rigorous published predictions that can
be used to help in decision making. Therefore, we have made our own predictions based on
the availability of limited data. We caution that these are field data, which were released by
scientists in Belarus before they had a chance to completely analyse them; therefore, the data
have not been quality assured. We define the following ree scenarios for 137Cs:
1. No future increase in radionuclide contamination of wood and a decrease based on
radiological decay only. We assume that peak concentrations are those measured
in 1993. This scenario would represent the situation if the forest wood was
harvested in 1993, and then stored.
2. We assume that contamination increases linearly based on the regression of the
data shown in Figure 8 until it reaches a steady state. This steady state is assumed
to be reached when the soil and wood concentrations are equal on a mass basis.
Although uncertain, our value does force a steady-state condition. We calculate
the soil concentration based on measurements in 1993 averaged over the 20-cm
profile at one of the Ministry of Forests sites, which is 1733 Bq/kg, including the
soil litter layer. We decrease the soil concentration by radiological decay and also
at the rate of 0.01% annually based on an estimate given by Tikhomirov (1992)
for some soils of the Chemnobyl region.



- 19-
3. We assume that contamination increases exponentially as observed from 1987 to
1992 (Figure 8), again reaching a steady state when the concentration in wood and
soil are equal on a mass basis. The same assumptions are used here as were used
in the second scenario.
The three scenarios are presented in Figure 9. The first scenario assumes a decrease in
radioactivity as a result of radioactive decay, but this rate is very slow (also see Figure 3). The
second and third scenarios both assume that the presently obscrved increase is continuing. The
timing of the peak concentration depends both on the rate of increase and on the assumptions of
steady state. However, our peaks between the years 1998 and 2010 (depending on the
scenario) do not contradict the feelings of Belarus scientists, are similar to the two to three
decades it took to reach steady state following the Kyshtym accident, and agree with
Tikhomirov's (1992) suggestion of a 10- to 15-year period before steady state may be reached.
Steady state would be achieved more quickly and at a lower concentration if the real
equilibrium is achieved when the wood concentration remains less contaminated than the soil.
As long as a transfer factor of greater than 1 Bq/k wood per Bq/kg soil is not reached, steady
state should be reached before the year 2010, unless the annual accumulation rate of 137Cs is
slower than we predicted.
There is some contradictory modelling evidence in the literature. Van Voris et al. (1990)
estimate that 137Cs in the trunk of trees may take 70 or 80 years to reach peak concentrations
although the understory could reach a peak in about 30 years. This depends on soil type. It is
difficult to estimate the rate of increase from their data, but it is less than we have assumed in
our scenarios. Their analysis suggests that our rtes of increase to steady state are probably
conservatively fast, and it is unlikely that contamination of wood could happen more quickly.
The significance of our steady-state values is that they should give the upper limit on wood
conmination. This prediction is difficult to make, and also depends on the part of the soil that
we use to estimate the equilibrium concentration. Here we have taken an average over the
whole soil profile, which should be conservatively high for mature trees. However, the top
layers of the soil are most contminated and shallow rooting trees could access a greater
relative portion of this contamination. For example, saplings are more contanad than older
trees at present (Figure 5). Average sapling contamination measured at plots 6, 12 and 36 of
the Ministry of Forests give activity ratios of 3.7, 8 and 0.5 Bqfkg sapling per Bq/kg soil
respectively. These ratios would be about a factor of 10 smaller if we based them on the
contanination in the soil litter layer. This suggests that our ratio of unity is likey a reasonable
upper limit, but that it is possible that young growing trees could accumulate up to a factor of
ten greater (our greatest ratio is 8). This could decrease as the roots access deeper soil layers
that are less contuminated, although '37Cs is slowly leaching downwards. Data from the
literature generally have transfer factors of less than unity, but this is species specific. For
some wild plants, it can be as great as ten, which is in the range of our discussion. If the
steady-state concentrations are greater than predicted, assuming a transfer factor of unity, then
we need to multiply the maximum concentrations shown in Figures 9 and 10 by this amount.
For example, in Figure 9 the maximum concentration could perhaps reach 15 kBqlkg instead of
plateauing at 1.6 kBqlkg.



- 20-
The steady-state concentration also depends on the age of the tree. Older clean wood will
dilute the newly contaminated wood. Therefore younger trees will have more contamination
than older ones. This will affect both the slope and steady-state concentrations in our
predictions. However, our model is based on real data from 1987 to 1992, so that this dilution
effect is considered to some extent.
Providing that our transfer factor of 1 Bq/kg wood per Bqfkg soil is conservatively high, we
would expect that the average wood contamination in the 1 to 5 Ci/kn2 Zone would reach a
maximum of about 1600 Bq/kg. This is less than the regulatory levels discussed in Section 7.
For the more contaminated areas, we estimate the exponential and linear scenarios based on the
Ministry of Forestry's 1990 to 1992 random sampling using averages for five species.
Figure 10 shows the predictions for the 5 to 15 Ci/km2 zone. Here, we have assumed an
average soil concentration of 5200 Bq/lkg, based on three times the concentration assumed for
the 1 to 5 Ci/km2 zone. Again, we assume that steady state is reached when the activity in the
wood equals that in the soil. Figure 10 indicates that wood contmination will exceed
3700 Bq/kg on average between 1996 and 2004, depcnding on the scenario, and that the steady-
state concentrations will peak above this level. This implies that this region should be
harvested in the very near fute if the wood is to meet the 3700 Bq/kg limit for '37Cs discussed
in Section 7. However, these predictions are based on the 1990 to 1992 data of the Ministry of
Forestry random samples. The permanent plots established in 1993 acually show lower
concentrations. For example, Table 4.1 shows that a site with surface contamination of
22.6 Cikrnm has about 0.2 kBql/kg of 137CS. But the other data (Figure 7) would suggest that
there should be about ten times this amount. Therefore, the data that were used for the
predictions may be conservatively high by a factor of 10. The ongoing monitoring at the
permanent sites established in 1993 should be able to clarify this trend in the future.
We have not done similar predictions for the zones with more than 15 Cillm2. The 1992 data
from the Ministry of Forestry indicate that wood is already approaching the 3700 Bq/k; level in
these areas. We assume that contamination will continue to increase and that the steady-state
concentration will be greater than that shown in Figure 10.
All three scenarios indicate that there is no advantage to wait to harvest contminated forests in
the less than 15 Ci/kmn2 zones. In :he second and third scenarios, the concentration is
increasing. Radiological decay is too slow to have a large impact in the near future, even in the
case where we have not assumed an increase. There is a possibility that wood concentrations
could decrease through mobilization of 137Cs in the wood, which would then be translocated to
foliage, and eventually lost through the ecosystem. This process is unliely to be a major
factor, and it is probably much less than radiological decay. In our second and third scenarios,
a more rapid loss of 137Cs from the soil could be assumed but this must be greater than 1.7%
annually to exceed radiological decay. Lower soil concentrations over time may not cause a
decrease in radionuclide concentrations in wood that has already formed.



-21 -
The impact of the higher concentration of 13Cs reported in saplings on intensive silviculture is
difficult to assess and a complete discussion is beyond the scope of this report. An intensive
silviculture program includes two early thinnings in which the forestry waste is expected to be
returned to the forest floor. The thinning scraps are not expected to pose an unusual problem
since they will be no more contaminated than the other fresh vegetation in the area. They are,
however, still relatively more contminated than the mature wood, and they will retm
contamination to the leaf-litter layer as they rot and expose workers to higher doses than mature
wood.
We expect that at a given point in time, the later thinnings (25 a to 45 a) will have the same
amount of contamiination as those tees left to mature. Thus the only problem with these
thinnings is that they will have a lower ratio of wood to more highly contaminated bark and
branches. The smallwood from thinnings can be used with the same considerations we have
placed on harvesting and processing (see Sections 5 and 6).
We cannot give a full analysis because there is a lack of knowledge in the pattern of long-term
radionucide uptake in trees; the Chemobyl-contaminated forest have not been studied long
enough to develop good models of the long-term '37Cs uptake rates in developing trees. The
forest sampling grids set up by the Ministry of Forestry and the Belarms Institute of Forestry
should provide valuable information on the uptake of radionuclides by saplings and young trees
in field conditions. Data from these research programs will allow scientists and foresters to
build better predictive models for contamination levels in newly planted trees. With klowledge
of the uptake pattern, the foresters can plan thinnings and harvesting to minimize the nisks to
workers and the environment.
Research is also underway in Belarus to utilize forest waste to generate energy or chemical
products. If any of these projects come to fruition, they will offer the potential to remove
contamination from the forests in a cost-effective way. Many of the technologies under study
in Belauns are reported in Greben'kov et al. (1993) (see Attachment 1).



- 22 -
5. HARVESTING OPERATIONS IN THE CONTAMINATED FORESTS IN BELARUS
5.1      RADIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT OF TH  STAND
The method of assessing a stand of trees and their ultimate harvest were observed during a field
trip associated with the Mogilev conference on November 11, 1993. The potential cutting area
is first analysed in tenns of its tree species, contamination level and external dose rate. The
maximum time a forestry worker can remain in any zone is defined in draft regulations, which
state that in open areas the time of work is not limited if the dose rate is less than 0.7 pSv/h for
a 36-h shift or less than 0.6 pSv/h for a 41-h shift. Truck, tractor, and other mechanized
equipment operators are allowed to operated in higher exposure zones because of the shielding
from their machinery: 1.05 uSv/h for a 36-h shift and 0.9 uSv/h for a 41-h shift. If the
workers spend time in areas of higher contamination, the time worked in each area is calculated
by a simple formula to assure that the calculated dose does not exceed I mSv/a for workers in
the <40 CiIkm2 zone.
Draft regulations shown to us state that before any work begins in contaminated areas the
government sanitary committee calculates the allowable exposure doses in proposed working
areas. This may be uised to identify contaminated areas where they conclude no special
precautions are needed.
A document, ranslated as a 'sanitary passport," is prepared. It includes radiation conditions
(level of gamma radiation and density of contamination), requirenents and means to secure
radiation safety of workers and the allowable time of work in the contaninated area as
described above. Work in conminated areas is only allowed in areas listed in the sanitary
passport.
The draft copy of the 'sanitary passport' has requirements for the following information: the
name of the company or enterprise; the name, address, and phone number of the unit actally
doing the work; the name and title of the radiation-safety official; the activities allowed in the
area and time restrictions, if any; the specific law that regulates the work being authorized; the
expiration date of the sarnitary passport"; the name of the service issuing the passport, the
name and signature of the responsible Health physicist or physician; and the number of copies
issued.
We did not see the "sanitary passport" for the workers in the area we inspected, but since it was
in a low-contamination area with established logging areas we assume it had been issued.
The stand of trees to be cut was assessed by felling and trimming three representative trees in
the area. Six cuts with a chain saw were made into each trimmed log: two at the base, two in
the center and two at the top. While the log was being cut, the chips were collected in a
plywood box as they flew off the chain saw. The samples from each tree were collected and
mixed in a plastic bag. They were then taken to the enterprise's counting room in the mill
where they were weighed and counted for radioactivity on a scintillation counter that was



-23 -
calibrated for the geometry and '37Cs. The counters were calibrated by using small sealed
sources. If the trees are below the limit for 137CS, the stand can be cut. The maximum value of
18 500 Bq/kg is given for trees with bark in the 1988 recommendations of the former USSR,
although 1000 Bq/kg is being used unofficially as the limit for debarked trees. The trees
measured dunng the field trip were far below these values, typically below 400 Bq/kg. They
reported that 90% of the trees sampled were below 700 Bq/kg and they are restricting timber
used in the Gomel Oblastt less than 370 Bq/kg. If the radioactivity level in the trees and the
extemnal dose rate are low enough, foresters are given a certficate to begin logging. The values
obtained from the tree samples were recorded in an official logbook so formal records can be
kept for future reference. If one tree is over the limit, the stand is not cut. One problem we
noted was that the limits are probably for dry weight whereas the samples were measured as
wet weight; however, this only underestimates the value by about a factor of two, which is not
a concem at these low radionucide-in-wood concentrations. We were told that each enterprise
worldng in a contaminated area has this procedure.
5.2      HARVESTING METHODS
The trees are cut and trimmed with chain saws. The crew size is about six men. We
understood that the foresters were local people who live in or near the forest. Thus, there is no
easy separation from the radiation dose that they receive on the job from what they receive in
their daily lives. In fact, the internal dose for foresters is generally higher than other segments
to the popduation because they eat locally produced food and wild game. Of course, in the
high-external-dose areas people have been moved and resetted. In our dose calculations we
took no account of the nonoccupational dose due to the residence location and lifestyle.
After cutting, the trees are loaded onto trucks and taken to the central storage where they are
graded and separated. The landing we observed was close to a mill that is under constcion.
The plan is to also randomly sample the finished wood products for radioactivity concentrations
as required.
The preferred time of logging is the winter and this is especially true in this contminated
situation: the dose rate is attenuated by the snow cover, the ground is solid and dust is reduced.
It may be necessary to restrict logging in some areas to the winter.
Control is needed to eliminate the burning of brush and logs from the contaminated area by the
loggers for heat. This is an activity that should be strictly monitored and should only be
allowed in areas where activity is sufficiently low. The assumption that their inhalation dose is
low assumes that they are only exposed to dust from the logging operation. The burning
produces a respirable aerosol, the branches have a higher level of activity than the logs, and the
ash contains concentrated 137CS.



-24 -
5.3      ESTIMATED DOSE TO WORKERS FROM INHALATION DURING
HARVBTING
These calculations estimate the dose to a harvester worlcing at tree cutting from inhalation.
These calculations are especially important because the regulations for forestry workers assume
that inhalation doses are low in areas with contamination levels below 15 Ci/an2. The sample
calculations shown below are for a contamination level of 1 Ci/km2. The expeced dose for
levels of 5, 10 and 15 Ci/lm2 are simple multiples of 1 Ci/km2. The calculations below are
done for two situations using slightly different assumptions: a dusty road or field with litde leaf
litter and an area covered with leaf litter. The calculations are relevant to the low-
contamination zone.
In the calculation of inhalation dose we used the inhalation rate, 2.3 x IV0 m3/a, which is basod
on the value of 43 L/min listed in ICRP (1975) for workers breathing heavily. The dose
conversion factor is the value recommended by the ICRP (1991b). The work year of 2000 h/a
is the longest value assumed for workers in the Belarus regulations for the contaminated forest.
We assume that the litter layer is 5 cm thick, contains all the contamination, and it is dispersed
as easily as soil.
The calculation uses the dust concentration of 500 gg/m3.,, as the basis for calculating the
average air concentrion of 137Cs. This is also a conservatively large value: Typical values on
the Canadian Shield, for example are lognormally distributed with a geometric mean of
59 pg/m3,r. We assume that one fifth of the dust is of breathable size and that the area is
contaminated with 137Cs at a concentration of 1 CiIlka. The soil density is taken as
1500 kg/n3. This would be the appropriate inhalation dose for activity adjacent to the forest in
a clear area with little leaf-litter cover. The dose conversion factor (DCF) for inhalation of
137CS iS 1 x 1i-; mSv/Bq (ICRP 199 lb).
Air concentration =    Contamination surface concentraion * soil (litter + soil) density *
dust load
(3.7 x 104 Bq/I2)(500 p;g/m3)(100 cm/m)
Air concentration =
(5 cm)(1500 kg/m3)(109 pg/kg)(5)
Air concentrafion = 4.9 x IC0  Bq/m3,,
Dose = air concentration * inhalation rate * work time * dose conversion factor
(4.9 x l0 Bq/m3)(2.3 x 104 m3/a)(2000 h/a)(1O5 mSvlBq)
dose =
(8766 h/a)



- 25 -
Dose = 2.5 x 104 mSv/a from '7Cs
The corresponding dose is calculated for 90Sr assuming a conmmination density of one tenth of
that for 137Cs, based on relative values shown on the maps. The appropriate DCF is
3.3 x 104 mSv/Bq (ICRP 1991b), so:
Dose = 8.5 x 106 mSv/a for 90Sr.
n this second case, the activity is  sumnd t be in the leaf-litter layer, which is assumed to be
1 cm thick. The contamination concentration is for the leaf-litter layer. This is the most
heavily contaminated layer and will remain so for many years. The dust concentration is
assumed to be 500 Ig/m3,, a conservative value. The breathable fraction is taken as one fifth
and the density of the leaf litter is taken as 1000 kg/m3.
(3.7 x 104 Bq/m2)(500 Ag/m3)(100 cm/m)
Air concentration =
(1 cm)(1000 kglm3)(109 gg/kg)(5)
Air concentration = 1.8 x 103 Bq/m3
(1.8 x 103)c2.3 x 104 m3/a)(2000 h)(1 x 175)
Dose =
(8766 h/a)
Dose = 9.4 x 10 5 mSv/a for 137Cs
and by a similar calculation with one tenth the activity, the estimated dose for 90Sr is,
Dose = 3.1 x 10'4 mSvla.
Thus, for both sets of calculations the inhalation to workers is expected to be low. This
corresponds to calculations made by scientists in Belarus and the assumptions that underlie their
regulations.
5.4       ESTIMATED IMMERSION DOSE TO WORKERS FROM HARVESTING
The calculations are based on a contamination level of I Ci/lan2. The calculations below are
done for dusty roads or fields and dust created from the leaf-litter layer.
The work year of 2000 h/a used in the calculations is the longest value assumed for workers in
the Belarus regulations for the contaminated forest. We assume that the litter layer is 5 cm
thick, it contains all the contamination, and is dispsed as easily as soil.



- 26-
The calculation uses the dust concentration of 500 gig/m3.*, as the basis for calculating the
aveage air concentmrion of 137 Cs. This is a conservatively large value: Typical values on the
Canadian Shield, for example are lognormally distributed witdi a geometnc mean of 59 icg/m31,
(Amiro and Davis 1991). The dose conversion factor for immersion in a semi-infinite cloud of
dust is 8.27 x 107 Sv/a per Bq/m3 (CSA 1987). The soil (itner + soil) density is taken as
1500 kg/m3. Al the contamination is assumed to be in the top 5 cm of the soil. This would be
the apprpriate inhalation dose for activity adjacent to the forest in a clear area with little leaf-
litter cover.
Air concentration = Contamiination surface concentration * soil (litter + soil) density * dust
load
(3.7 x 104 Bq/m2)(500 pggm3)(100 cm/m)
Air concentrfion =
(5 cm)(1500 kg/m3)(109 'ig/k)
Air concentraion = 2.5 x 104 Bq/nm3.r
Dose = air concentration * work time * dose conversion factor
(2.5 x 104 Bq/m3)(2000 h)(8.27 x 104mSv/Bq)
dose =
(8766 h/a)
Dose = 4.7 x 10 *,nSvla
In this second case the activity is assumed to be in the leaf-litter layer which is assumed to be
1 cm thick. The contamination concentwation is for the leaf-litter layer. This is the most
heavily contaminated layer and will remain so for many years. The dust concentraion is
assumed to be 500 Lg/m3l,,, a conservative value. The density of the leaf litter is Uken as
1ooo kg/n3.
(3.7 x 104 Bq/m2)(500 itg/m3)(100 cm/rn)
Air concentration =
(1 cm)(l000 kg/m3)(109 gg/kg)
Air concentration = 1.8 x 10-3 Bq/m3
(1.8 x 1F3)(2000 h)(8.27 x 104 mSv/Bq
Dose =
(8766 h/a)
Dose = 3.5 x le7 mSv/a.



- 27 -
Thus for both sets of calculations the imme-sion of workers in dust is low.
Immersion in a dust cloud of tree bark and wood fragments in the air from cutting trees is
calcubted by conservatively assuming that contaminated wood and bark malkng up the dust
have a 137Cs concentration of 10 000 Bq/kg, a far larger value than seen in any sample plot
reported by the Ministry of Forestry, and that there are 500 g/in3 of particles in the air
(0.005 Bq/m3). The dose conversion factor for immersion in a semi-infinite cloud of dust is
8.27 x 1077 SvJa per Bq/n3 (CSA 1987), which gives 9.4 - 10' mSvla for a 2000-h work year.
This dose is negligible.
The external immersion dose for 90Sr is assumed to be    because "0Sr does not emit photon
(gamma) energy.
5.5      ESTIMATED EXTERNAL DOSE TO WORKERS FROM HARVESTING
5.5.1    Groundshine
Th e calculations are based on a contamination level of I Ci/km2 (3.7 x 104 Bq(e). For 137Cs
we assume that the worker receives the same effective body dose as a receptor I m above
uniformly contaminated ground and works 2000 h each year. The dose conversion factor for
exposure on uniformly contaminated ground is 1.65 x l0 5 mSvla per Bq 137Cs/m2 (CSA 1987).
These calculations are conservative because we do not account for any shielding from snow or
surface litter.
Dose = 137CS SUrface density * dose conversion factor * fraction of hours worked per year
Dose = (3.7 x 104 BqIm2)(l.65 x lS mSv - m2Bq -a)(2000 hla.)/(8766 h/a)
Dose = 0.14 mSv/a.
This dose, which is estimated from groundshine only, can be compared with that reported to us
in a draft report by Dr. A. Greben'kov et al. (see Attachment 1). A tree-dimensional model
was used to estimate doses with different patterns of conuminat  trees with a specific activity
of 10 000 Bqtkg groWing on soil contaminat  at 15 CiIkm2 of '37Cs. The worker doses
calculated from values of equivalent dose rate from their curves and assuming a 2000-h work
year range from 4.8 to 4.0 mSv/a depending on the density of trees. These values, which
transform to 0.32 to 0.27 mSv/a per Ci/km2, are of the same order of magnitude as the one
from our simple calculation. The extenal dose for 90Sr is assumed to be zero.
These doses are small and show that the radiological hazard to loggers in areas below 7 Cirkm2
is below the 1 mSv/a maximum dose for members of the public in ICRP recommendations and
for workers in the temporary draft regulations in Belarus. However, if the 1 mSv/a dose limit
is used, the length of time workers can spend in the more contaminated zones must be
regulated. These work-time restrictions are presently in place in Belarus in the form of
temporary regulations.



- 28 -
5.5.2    Dose from Deposition on Sldn
The dose from deposition of dust on skin is calculated assuming an 8-h work day and that 10%
of the worker's body is covered with wood dust to a 1-mm thickness. The dose conversion
factors for 137CS and 90Sr are both 1.6 x l02 Svla per Bq(cm2 (Kocher and Eckerman 1987).
We assume that the most contaminated part of the soil, the leaf-litter layer, is deposited on the
skin. Measurements in 1993 by the Belarus Ministry of Forestry in an area with 5.3 Ci/km2 of
137Cs show about 24 kBq/kg soil of 137Cs. Using this soil concentration, we calculate a sidn
dose of 0.9 mSvla from 37Cs. Assuming that the activity of 90Sr is one tenth of 137Cs, the skin
dose from 90Sr is 0.09 mSv/a. The allowable skin dose limit is 50 mSv/a, so the estimated total
skdn dose of I mSv/a is much below the limit.
ICRP (1991b) recommends that the skin be given a 0.01 weighting factor in detemining
whole-body dose. Therefore, the effective whole-body dose from both 137Cs and 90Sr is about
0.01 mSv/a.
5.5.3    Doses to ForEy Workers in the Contaminated Zones of Belarus
A summary of the maximum dose estimates calculated for workers is shown in Table 5. 1. The
largest component of dose is from the external exposure to 137Cs. The estimated dose to
workies from 137Cs was 0.14 mSv/a, 0.7 mSv/a, 2.1 mSv/a and 5.6 mSvla for workers in the
I Ci/en2, 5 Ci/km2, 15 Cil/k2 and 40 Ci/Jk2 levels of contaiination respectively, Table 5.2.
These are all below or close to the current regulatory level of 5 mSv/a for members of the
public, but the last two are above the level of 1 mSv/a, which we anticipate will be in the new
regulations for Belarus. The doses for 90Sr are significantly lower than those for 137Cs. In
addition, the concentration of "Sr in the contaminated zones is lower. We have assumed in the
values shown in Table 5.1 that an area contaminated with 1 Ci/ke2 '37Cs has a concentration of
0.1 Cil/ml2 90Sr.
In discussions with officials and workers in the Ministry of Health in Belarus, we were able to
obtain descriptions of dose information for forestry workers, but we were not able to obtain the
actual data because they could not assemble it in the short time we were in Belarus. The
following is a summary of the dose information obtained. The Ministry of Health office in
Gomel reports that their data for 1993 indicate the doses (mternal and external) to groups of
foresters in the Gomel region range from 1 mSv/a to 5 mSv/a with a maximum of 12.5 mSv/a,
but this is the total dose and reflects the effect of life-style and dwelling location in addition to
the dose obtained at work. From previous years, foresters worling in the > 15 Ci/kIm2 zone
did not generally receive doses higher than 4 mSv/a, although there were individual exceptions,
especially those worling in the highly contaminated zones who could receive doses of
approximately 10 mSv/a. Data for extemal doses reported for 1991 are shown in Table 5.3
and are consistent with information from other sources.



- 29 -
TABLE 5.1
MAXIMUM ESTIMATE D DOSE TO HARVSERS FROM WORK
IN A 1-Cikni2 137CS ZONE
Source                  13"Cs Dose               9"Sr Dose
(mSv/m)                   (-SvIa)
Inhalation of Dust      9.4 x 10-5                3.1 x 10-4
Immersion In Dust       3.5 x 10-7                0.0
Deposition on skin      0.009                     9 x 10-4
External                0.14                      0.0
Total                   0.14                      0.0012
' The skin dose was given a 0.01 weighting (ICRP 1991b).
It is worth emphasizing that these are maximum doses calculated using the
assumptions listed above. In the field, sampling methods could easily be used
to obtain the actual concentration of breathable-dust, the 137Cs activity in
the dust and the external radiation levels. As can be seen from Table 5.1,
the external field is the most important exposure source and it is easily
measured.
TALE 5.2
MAXIMM ESTIMATED '37Cs DOSE TO HARVESTERS
FROM WORK IN VARIOUS ZONES
Zone           1"3CS Level                   Dose
Ci/kn2                     *Sv/a
1                1 to 5                 0.14 to 0.7
2                5 to 15                0.7  to 2.1
3               15 to 40                2.1  to 5.6
4                 >40                       >5.6



- 30 -
TABLU 53
,AVERAG   MERNL ANNUj&L DOSER FOR Di]FERENT GROUPS LIVING
IN THE QOMFL AREA IN mSvla
(1991 data reported in Mogilev Conference by Dr. V. Ipatiev)
Children     Machine Operators  Agricultural  Forest Vorkers
Office Vorkers    Retired People      Staff
2.0              2.5            3.0           3.4
It is difficult to separate the work component from these doses, since in the past the officials in
Belarus have been most interested in lowering the total dose to everyone living in the
contaminated area, rather than concentrating on the dose obtained at work, which is the
measure needed for this report.
The intrnal doses are estimated from data obtained by whole-body counts. We were told that
the republic of Belarus has 80 whole-body counters in hospitals or mobile laboratories.
Forestry workers are included in the population that is monitored by these whole-body counters
and the workers are allowed to receive counts on demand.
The external doses are estimated by authorities in Belarus to be 70% to 90% of the total. Data
on external doses were collected with local thermal luminescent dosimeters (TLD). Their
comparison of local TID with those supplied from a Western manufacurer, Harshaw,
indicated that the variability of the local TILDs needs to be improved, but the differences are
reported to be below 2 mSv/a.
The inhalation dose is assumed to be low bocause foresters who say they do not eat wild game
or mushrooms have the same intemal 1'7Cs concentration on whole-body counts as the general
public does. In a small 1988-1989 experiment on plowing in the 30-km zone of Chernobyl
reported to us, the content of plutonium in air did not exceed nonns for radiations workers.
The concentrations described for 239Pu, 9"Sr and 137Cs were 7.4 x 10' Bq/m3, 1.3 x 104 Bq/m3
and 7.4 x 1075 Bq/m3 to 8.5 x l04 Bq/m3 respectively. This is another confirmation of the
small contribution expected from inhalation.
In practice, the dose from 90Sr is difficult to measure directly: it is usually estimated; however,
the dose from '37Cs is expected to be much larger to forestry workers than that from 90Sr.
5.6       ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLICATONS OF HARVESTING
Harvesting of forests has environmental implications, irrespective of radioactive contamination.
However, these general considerations apply to all sites and here we only consider the
radiological implications of forestry in contaminated areas.



-31 -
The removal of the tree canopy cover increases the amount of precipitation reaching the forest
floor and will increase downward leaching of radionuclides through the soil. This condition is
only temporary if the area is reforested. Increased leaching will cause radionuclides to move
out of the litter layer more quickly and to penetrate the soil profile. This will reduce the
extemal radiation fields and reduce the dose to workers. Howevcr, the radionucides may be
taken up by vegetation more quickly and reach the groundwater at a faster rate. If felling and
reforesting are completed together within a short time frame, such as two or three years, there
should be no severe consequences to this enhanced leaching. Most of the Belarus forests are on
relatively flat land, and soil erosion with lateral twansport of radionuclides is not a great
concern.
Therefore, we see no large radiological implications of harvesting. Issues such as large clear-
cutting operations should be evaluated using environmental criteria that need not be explicitly
tied to radiation protection.



- 32 -
6. PRQCESSING
6.1      PROCESSES CONS1DERED
We consider that wood processing begins once the wood leaves the lower landing. Therefore,
we must include transportation, handling, and processing. We also include debarking of wood
as a processing activity, even if this occurs in harvesting areas or at the lower landing.
Transportation and handling are considered together as a separate activity from milling.
Miling is assumed to include a wide variety of processes, such as sawnng, chipping, stripping
and milling into final products. Some special processes differ greatly from milling; these
include pulp production and use of tres as biomass for energy production. We do not consider
that fuelwood use is a processing activity that affects workers. Instead, we evaluate fuelwood
use as a public safety concem (Section 7) and consider the ash as a separate waste issue.
6.2      RADIOLOGICAL DOSES TO WORKERS
Workers can receive a radiation dose from an external source or from an inunal source.
External sources include being irradiated by the wood products, being immersed in a cloud of
contaminated wood suspended in the atmosphere and from contaminated wood being deposited
on skdn and clothes. Intenal sources consider inhalation of suspended dust; we assume that
ingestion of wood is of no concern. We evaluate contributions from these sources for each
activity. As a basis for reference, we perform our calculations assuming that the wood is
contaminated to a level of 3700 Bq/kg. This concentration is the maximum allowed under the
current CIS regulations for wood to be used for construction purposes.
6.2.1 Transportation and Handling
Transportation and handling are assumed to occur between the lower landing and the processing
plant. However, our calculations are also applicable for similar activities when wood products
are shipped to market. We assume that a worker (or even a member of the public) is less
exposed to the wood during transportation and handling than would be an individual living in a
house constructed of the same wood. The public safety calculations in Section 7 show that the
dose would be less than 1.3 mSvla. Considering that transportation workers are exposed for a
lesser portion of the day and that they would not normally be surrounded by wood, it is likely
tha; there potential dose may be a factor of 10 less, and likely less than 0.1 mSv/a.
Transportation and handling may also involve some exposure to ontminat  soil that has been
attached to vehicles, or perhaps to the wood. The dose fromn this is assumed to be negligible
because very little soil should be attached to debarked wood and the contamination control
measures would minimize the dose from contaminated vehicles.
6.2.2    Wood Milling
Wood milling includes a great vanety of processes. We assume the following exposure
situation for a worker:



-33 -
- wood contaminated with 3700 Bq '37Cslkg and 370 Bq '0Sr/kg
- exposure to a 10 cm x 10 cm x 3 m wood beam or log at a distance of 0.3 m
- total dust load of particles in air of 500 gLgIm3
- inhalable dust load of contaminated wood partides in air of 100 Fglm3
- deposition of 0.1 mm of contamiinated wood dust on skin
- a 2000 h/a work period.
The dose from extemral cxposure from the wood beam is 4.1 x lO  mSv/h per Bqlkg for an
average of five different exposure goDmetries, based on the Microshield computer code
(Microshield Version 4, Grove Engineering, Inc. 1992). This gives an annual dose of
0.03 mSv at 3700 Bq "37CsAkg. This dose is negligible.
Immersion in a dust cloud in the air is calculated by assuming that contaminated dust has
3700 Bq 137Cs/kg and that there are 500 pglm3 of particles in the air, or 0.0019 BqJm3 in air.
The dose conversion fctor for immersion in a semi-infinite cloud of dust is 8.27 x 10-7 Sv/a
per Bq/mn (CSA 1987), which gives 1.6 x 10 mSv/a for our situation. This dose is
negligible.
The dose from inhaled particles is calculated based on 3700 Bq '37Cs/kg and 370 Bq 90Sr/kg of
particles and 100 gglm3 ilnhabale particles. This amount of inhalable particles is a reasbly
high concentation to be continuously exposed to. The concenation of 137Cs in air is then
3.7 Bq/m3, and the dose conversion factor for inhalafion is 20 mSv for 2 x 106 Bq
(ICRP 1991b). We assume an inhalation rate of 43 Llmin for heavy work (ICRP 1975). The
calculated dose from 137CS is 2 x l0s mSv/a, which is negligible. Similarly for 9DSr, the air
concentration is 3.7 x I0& Bq/m3, and the dose conversion faor is 20 mSv for 6 x 10" Bq,
assuming long retention in the lungs (ICRP 1991b). The calculated dose from 90Sr is then
6.4 x 1j0 mSvla, which is negligible.
The dose from deposition of dust on skin and clothes is calculated assuniing an 8-h workday
and that 10% of the worker's body is covered with wood dust to a 1-mnm thickness. The dose
conversion factors for '137Cs and 90Sr are both 1.6 x, 10f2 Sv/a per Bq/cm2 (Kocher and
Eckerman 1987). Assuming 3700 Bq '37Csfkg and 370 Bq 9SrIkg, we calculate the skin dose
from 137Cs as 0.2 mSv/a and from 90Sr as 0.02 mSv/a, which is negligible. This is a sidn
dose, with an allowable limit of 50 mSv/a, as opposed to a whole-body dose. The effective
whole-body doses for these skin doses are 0.2 -Sv/a and 2  SvIa for 137CS and 90Sr
respectively. These doses are negligible.
The doses fron processing are summafized in Table 6.1. The total dose is much below the
regulatory safety limits, and we conclude that processors are not at risk.



-34 -
TABLE 6.1
RaDILGC    DO_T OKESDRN  PROCE-SSING
(Assuniing 3700 Bq 131CS/kg and 370 Bq 90Sr/kg)
Source                             Potential Dose
(aSv/a)
137CS           9Sr
External exposure to logs               0.03             0
Imersion in suspended dust              1.6 x 10-6       0
Inhalation of suspended dust            2 x 10-5         0.0064
Deposition on skin and clothes'         0.002            0.0002
TOTAL                                   0.03             0.007
*    The skin dose is given a 0.01 weighting to determine whole-body dose
(ICRP 1991b).
6.2.3    PUlp and Biomass Processing
Processing of wood into pulp and biomass products can concentrate radionuclides in some parts
of the by-products and decrease them in others. Ash and sludge deposits from pulp mills in
southern Sweden produced dose rates from 137CS, derived from Chernobyl, in 1990 and 1991
of about 0.07 pSv/h (Holm and Ravila 1992). This is about 0.14 mSv/a, but a worker would
only receive a fraction of this. However, it is difficult to relate these measurements to a
quantitative estimate of dose to workers processing Belarus wood.
Greben'kov et al. (1993; Attachment 1) estimate that 'black liquor' in pulp processing can be
enriched with 137Cs by a factor of 27. The concem that this by-product is more contaminated
than other parts of the process agrees with that of Holm and Ravila (1992) in Sweden. We use
this enrichment factor to estimate possible external doses to worlks from exposure to a large
quantity of black liquor. We assume that the original wood is conuminated to the maximum
level of 3700 Bq/kg and with an enrichment factor of 27, has a source term of about
100 kBqlkg. The exact geometry of exposure to workers is difficult to estimate, but we assume
that the liquor is held in a cylinder of 1-m radius and 3-m height. A worker is assumed to
stand 1 mn away from this cylinder and we assume no shielding by metal containing the liquor.
The dose estimate using the Micmshield code is 4 x 10' mSv/h per Bqfkg. For a 2000-h work
year and a contamination level of 100 kBq/kg, this could give a dose of 8 mSv/a. However, it
is very unlikely that a worker would spend aU of his time at a 1-m distance from a source of



-35 -
this size, so the more probable dose would be less than I mSv/a. The tank holding the black
liquor could easily be shielded if needed.
Cesium-137 can also be concentrated and enriched in other processes. The most concentrated
form is when wooid is burned and 137Cs remains in the ash. This problem also occurs as a part
of disposal of waste wood and use of wood as fuel, and we discuss this in Section 7.
6.3      CONTAMINATION CON1fOL
Contamination control would not normally be a large concern in the lightly contaminated areas.
However, it must be considered if more contuminated materials enter the processing operaLions.
This should be included in the establishment of a radiation protection program (See
Appendix E).
6.4      MONITORING
As long as processing activities only use wood contaminated with less than 3700 Bq/kg,
radiclogical doses will be very low and activities are safe. In this situation, no monitorng of
workers is required. The exception is for those in contact with wastes having higher
concentrations. We briefly discuss the waste management issue in Section 9.
Monitoring of wood products in the processing phase is also not likely warranted, providing
ta incomring wood is at safe levels. Therefore, safety of the wood products depends on the
receipt of safe raw wood. Occasional random sampling of wood, such as sawdust by-products
during processing, would give additional quality assurance.



- 36-
7. PUBLIC SAFT
7.1      S         LEVELSQF RADIONUCLIDES ESTABLISH    FOR
PRODUCI 
In 1988, the former USSR established safe levels of 137Cs in forest products (Table 7.1). These
safe levels are still used as regulatory limits. The different levels established for different
products depend on dose estimates that apply for their usage. Therefore, the limits are based
on risk to individuals of the population. This is an intemationally accepted concept, but it
depends on the scenarios selected to ensure safty.
Tle lowest limit is set for fuelwood because of the potential hazard created by ash after
combustion. These finer particles can be suspended into the air and inhaled, or distributed in
soil and water and be taken up by food crops. This makes fuelwood an indirect pathway for
ingestion of contaminated wood. The least stringent level is for construction wood with bark;
this wood would only be used in applications where humans would not be in close proximnity
for much of the time; therefore, a lower dose should be expected.
TABLE 7.1
ALLOWABLE CONCENTRATIONS OF '"Cs IN FOREST PRODUCTS
1988 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FORMER USSR
Product                     Concentration of 237Cs
(Bq/kg)
Construction vood, savlogs
- vith bark                                18 500
- without bark                              3 700
(if concentrations are between
3700 and 18 500, vood cannot leave
the lover landing with bark)
Boards, chips, veneers,
particle and fibre board                          1 850
Fuelvood (ash disposed in ground
at depth >0.5 m)                                    740
Minor Household Items                             3 700
Products for food storage
(kegs, baskets, wooden utecsils)                  1 850
Paint, lacquer and pharmaceutical                 3 700
Seeds of trees and shrubs                         7 400



-37 -
7.2      RADIOLOG1CAL DOSES TO THE PUBLTC
Based on the wood product levels established in Table 7.1, we have performed an independent
radiological safety analysis. We have selected different uses of wood to approximate a wide
range of potential activities. We do this analysis for 137Cs only and calculate the radiological
dose from external exposure. There is negligible external skdn exposure from 90Sr, but we
estimate the 90Sr dose from ingestion of plants growing in soil contaminated with ash.
In these calculations, we assume that the public is exposed to dried wood that has an average
density of 600 kg/M3. This is a reasonable value for air-died wood of many species (Panshin
and De Zeeuw 1980).
7.2.1    Living in an All-Wood House
Our most stringent situation would be humans living in a house made of wood and
contaminated to the maximum allowable levels. We assume that the whole house is made of
wood timbers contaminated with '37Cs at 3700 Bqfkg. The wood timbers are assumed to be
uniformly conamintd and are 10 cm thick. We assume the following exposure situation:
- an individual spends 80% of their time in a room (occupancy factor = 0.8),
- the room has walls, floor and ceiling that are each 3 x 3 m in size,
- the individual is 1.5 m from all surfaces, receiving a dose from six plane sources
(i.e., person is in the center of the room).
Our model calculates the effective dose equivalent received by the individual, and there is some
small variation depending on the exact geometry of the individual. Using the Microshield
code, we calculate an average of 8.4 x 109 mSv/h per Bq/kg of 137Cs for each of the six plane
sources. At a contamination level of 3700 Bg/lkg, the total dose to the individual would be
1.3 mSv/a. This is above the allowable annual limit of I mSvla, wkiich is usually adopted for
public safety. Howvever, it is unlikely that a building would be totally constructed with wood
contaminated to the maximum limit. The l-mSv/a limit requirement would be met if half of
the wood was contaminated to the limit.
7.2.2    Living in a Wood-Panelled House
A slightly less-stringent situation is where the the whole house is made of wood panelling
contaminated with 137Cs at 1850 Bq/kg. The wood panelling is assumed to be uniformly
contaminated and is 6.4 mm thick. We assume the following exposure situation:
- an individual spends 80% of their time in a room (occupancy factor = 0. 8),
- the room has walls, floor and ceiling that are each 3 x 3 m in size,
- the individual is 1.5 m from aU surfaces, receiving a dose from six plane sources
(i.e., person is in the center of the room).



- 38 -
Our model calculates the effective dose equivalent received by the individual, and there is some
small variation depending on the exact geometry of the individual. Using the Microshield
code, we calculate an average of 7.2 x 1010 mSv/h per Bq/kg of 137Cs for each of the six plane
sources. At a contamination level of 1850 Bg/kg, the total dose to the individual would be
0.05 mSv/a. This is much less than the allowable annual limit.
7.2.3    EgZrnI to ContnaLed Furnitum
We assume that an individual is exposed to a contaminated table for B h each day and also to a
contaminated wooden bed for 8 hours daily. This is a conservative situation where the person
spends most of their time close to contaminated furniture. The following geometries are
assumed:
Contaninated table:
- 1.22 m wide and 2.44 m long and 2.5 cm thick
- the dose is calculated 30 cm from the edge of the table where uhe person's body is
located.
Contaminated bed:
- 1.22 m wide and 2.44 m long and 2.5 cm thick
- the individual lies on the bed and the dose is calculated in the middle of the bed,
I cm above it
- we do not consider any additional radiation shielding by a matress.
We calculate an average dose conversion factor of 3.1 x 1079 mSvlh per Bq/kg for the table and
1.3 x 10' mSv/h per Bq/lkg for the bed. Assuming that solid wood is used and conmminated to
3700 Bq/kg, the total annual dose from the table and bed would be 0.17 mSv/a. This is likely a
high calculation because very few beds would be constructed of solid wood at this
contamination level. Our table and bed situations implicitly include other contaminated
furniture such as chairs.
7.2.4 Exposure to a Single Building Bem
We also evaluate .tte dose from a single wooden beam, made of solid wood 10 cm x 10 cm in
dimension and 3 m long. We calculate the dose to an individual at a distance of 1 m from the
beam. We assume an 8 hJd exposure to this beam. The dose conversion factor is
3.7 x 10-' mSv/h per Bq/kg. For the 8-h day and a contaniination level of 3700 Bq/kg, we
estimate a dose of 0.004 mSv/a.
7.2.5 Exposure to Wood Ash
Some 137CS is lost to the atmosphere in smoke during burning, and this can vary from 0 to
80%, depending on the burning process. Greben'kov et al. (1993) (Attachment 1) suggest an
enrichment factor of bottom ash from burning of 45, although fly ash can have an enrichment
factor of as much as 200. For comparison, some unpublished experiments by AECL Research
give enrichment factors of bottom ash ranging between 10 and 90, so 45 is reasonable. We
assume that bottom ash is of greater consequence because of its greater quantity.



- 39 -
The interim regulatory levels for 137CS in fue wood are 740 Bqlkg. With an enrichment factor
of 45, we estimate 33.3 kBq/kg ash. We calculate the extrnal field from this in a fireplace
with no shielding, assuming that the ash is a cube of 0.3 m on each side. We assume that a
person is I m away from this ash for 16 h/d and at the ash has a density of 500 kg/m3. The
Microshield code estimates a dose of 4.8 x 10'7 mSv/h per Bq/cm3 and we calculate an effective
dose equivalent of 0.047 mSv/a to a person exposed to this ash.
If wood ash is removed from the fireplace and placed on a garden, some of the radionuclides
can be taken up by food crops. In this situation, fudiwood that leaves a contaminated area and
is used in a nonco-iaminated area can contribute to soil contaniination and cause an ingestion
dose to humans. We simplify this problem by assuming that 1 kg of ash is placed on each m2
of garden area aid that this is homogenized with the soil to a depth of 0.3 m. We assume that
there is 33.3 kBq '37Cs and 3.3 kBq '0Sr in each kg of ash. With a soil bulk density of
1500 kg/m3 and a soil-to-plant transfer coefficient for 137Cs of 2 x 10-2 Bq/kg plant per BqAkg
soil (Zach and Sheppard 1992), we calculate 1.5 Bq/kg plant. The amount of plant material
ingested varies widely among individuals and cultures, but 300 kg/a is a reasonable amount for
a generic assessment (Zach and Sheppard 1992). This would give an intake of 450 Bq 137Cs/a.
The dose conversion factor is 20 mSv for every 106 Bq of 137Cs intake (ICRP l99lb), so that
the ash in the garden could contribute a dose of about 0.009 mSvla. Similar calculations for
9OSr assume 3.3 kBq/kg ash, a soil-to-plant transfer coefficient of 0.63 BqJkg plant per Bqlkg
soil, and a dose conversion factor of 20 mSv per 6 x 105 Bx  Th'is gives a dose of 0.046 mSvla
from 9OSr. These rough estimates are likely accurate within a factor of ten. We have assumed
that food crops are not contaminated by surface deposition of ash, which would increase the
dose.
Fly ash that is emitted from a chimney could pose an inhalation hazard. We base our
calculation on a model of Amiro and Davis (1991), which assumes that 20% of the radionuclide
is released to the atmosphere and that a human can be located next to the building within the
smoke plume. The concentration is calculated as the product of the wood concentration, the
amount of energy required, the emission fraction, and a dispersion term divided by the energy
content of the wood. Based on the needs for heating in parts of Canada, and assuming that they
apply to Belarus, we let the energy requirement equal 3.5 kd/s on average throughout the year,
which is a conservatively high value. We use a wood concentration of 740 Bq 137Cs and
74 Bq 90Sr per kg of wood, and assume that each kg of wood can provide 5.5 MJ of energy
(this assumes a 50% efficient wood stove). The dispersion term is about 0.0105 s/m3 for
someone standing in the plume beside a small house for 25 % of the time while they are outside
(i.e., the probability of being on the side of the house with the smoke is 1 in 4).
With this model we calculate air concentrations of 10f Bq/m3 37Cs and 104 Bq/m3 90Sr. The
dose conversion factor for inhalation is 20 mSv for 2 x 106 Bq 137Cs and 6 x 104 Bq 90Sr
(ICRP l991b). We assume that a person can be outside and potenfally exposed to the plume
for 8 h/d and that they breath 9.6 m3 of air during this period (ICRP 1975). We calculate doses
of 3.5 x 1075 mSv/a from 137Cs and 1.2 x 104 mSv/a from 90Sr rough inhalation of this
smoke. These doses are negligible. An additional dose could be caused by smoke being
released into a house through improper venting, but this is likely less than an additional factor
of 10 which is still smal.



- 40 -
Scientists at the Radioecology Institute in Minsk have outlined a program whereby ash from
households situated in contaminated areas would be collected and brought to a central disposal
facility. This ash would then be buried in a pit or special facility to reduce the public dose.
This program would help to reduce doses to those burning more contaminated wood. This
would be especially important when more highly contaminated branches are collected and
burned. Doses could easily be a factor of 20 or 50 greater than those calculated for the
740 Bq 137Cs/kg level in wood.
We summarize the potential exposure of the public in Table 7.2.
TABLE 7.2
MAXIMUM EXPOSURE TO THE PUBLIC
(based on maximum regulatory levels)
Source                               Dose (mSvfa)
137CS              9OSr
Contaminated building,
solid vood, 10 en thick        1.3                0
3700 Bq 137CS/kg
Contaminated building,
6 - panelling                  0.05               0
1850 Bq 137Cs/kg
Contaminated table and bed
3700 Bq 137CsIkg               0.17               n
Single building beam
10 cm x 10 cm x 3                        -
3700 Bq 137Cs/kg               0.004              0
Ash in fireplace
33.3 kBq 137Cs/kg              0.047              0
Ash on garden                  0.009               0.046
33.3 kBq 237Cs/kg
3.3 kBq 'Srfkg
Inhalation of wood smoke       3.5 x 10-5          1.2 x 10-4



-41 -
8. SUMMARY OF RADIOLOGIlCAL RISK
We have summarized the radiological doses fom 13CS and 90Sr from forest harvestng
activities in Table S. 1 based on a few assumptions:
- harvesting oprations takeplace in the I to 15 Ci/km2 zone,
- workers are exposed to ground contamination of 7 Cilkm2 of 137Cs,
- harvested wood leaves thfe lower landing with 3700 Bq "7Cs and 370 Bq 90Sr per
kg wood,
- the public is exposed to a variety of uses of the wood with the wood contaminated
to the maximum level recommended by the interim safety slandards.
The maximum value for the public shown in Table 8.1 is likely a high estimate and is
dominated by external exposure from a building built entirely of contaminated logs that are
10 cm thick. The probability of this is low. Harvesting workers would receive only 1i7 of the
dose if they were lcated at 1 CiIkm2 of '3"CS.
TABLE 8. 1
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED MAXIMUM RADIOLOGICAL DOSE RATES
Pathway                      Maximu= Radiological Dose (.Sv/a)
Public            Harvesting        Processing
Worker            Vorker
(at 7 Ci/ko2)
External Exposure       <1.3                1.0               0.037
Inhalation              1.5 x 10 5          3 x 10-3          0.006
Ingestion               0.05                  0                  0
Total                   (1.3                 1.0               0.043
Our conclusion is that the interim regulatory levels of radionuclides in wood are sufficiently
stringent to protect tfie public. We have done these calculations assuming that wood is
contaminated to the maximum regulatory levels and using very conservative exposure
scenarios. However, most wood in the 1 to 15 Ci/km2 is less contaminated than this. Without
good data on the average concentrations in wood and knowledge of the specific uses of the
wood, we cannot ascertain whether the 10 5LSvIa average dose limit for free use by the public
will be met. However, we feel that an average dose of 10 FSv/a, considering a mixture of all
Belarus wood products, can likely be met.



- 42 -
Based on our calculations, harvesters that work in zones with 7 CiIlkm of 13Cs or less, on
average, will receive less than the target dose of 1 mSv/a. Their work-time will have to be
regulated in more contaminated areas. In actual harvesting practice in Belarus, authorities can
easily measure the radiation dose before work begins in a stand and do not have to rely on
generic calculations such as those we have presented here. Thus shielding by snow-cover,
shielding by soil or litter, and other factors that reduce the external dose will allow workers to
access areas with higher levels of contamination than 7 mSv/a without time restrictions. This is
why we recommended that harvesting proceed in areas up to 15 Ci/kn as long as the radiation
exposures are known and simple precautions are taken. Processing workers that handle wood
that meets the regulatory concentration levels receive a very low dose, far below the regulatory
dose limits.



- 43 -
9. WASTE MANAGEE
The forestry industry creates large volumes of waste. In the contaminated areas, this waste can
pose an additional radiological hazard. Here, we discuss the considerations for each of the
waste components.
9.1      FORESTRY WASTE
Forestry waste includes the normally unused by-products of silviculture and harvesting. These
are mostly branches and foliage from harvesting and whole small trees from thinnings. In
almost all cases, the waste products are more contaminated than the usable wood. For
example, Figure 5 shows that saplings, bark and branches are all much more contuninated than
the wood, typically by an order of magnitude. We expect that, at a given point in time, the
trees cut during thinnings have the same amount of contamination as those left to mature. So
the wood from thinnings does not pose an unusual problem, except for the quantities of bark
and branches generated during the thinning. The smallwood from thinnings can be used with
the same considerations as we have placed on harvesting in general.
The large quantities of branches and bark pose a problem because of their large volume and
relatively high level of contmination. A common practice of bumning on site can cause
potential problems because of inhalation doses to the workers and the return of ash to the forest
floor. The radioactivity left in the forest can subsequently become available for future uptake
by the trees, and will also remain as a source of extenWal radiation to people in the forest. We
suggest that uncontrolled burning of wood waste in the forest is not a radiologically sound
practice.
It seems reasonable that this waste material could be removed and utilized in a different
manner. There are severl schemes for utilization of waste to generate energy, which is needed
by the country. Many of the potential technologies are being explored by Belarus scientists and
are outlined by Greben'kov et al. (1993) (Attachment 1).
If the branches and bark are collected by forestry workers, even manually, we estimate that the
extemal dose should be about 10 times greater than that estimated from wood. The external
dose from contaminated ground would remain the same. Previously we estimated that the
external dose from transportation and handling would be on the order of 0.1 mSv/a from wood.
This extemal dose estimate assumed that the worker would only get about 10% of the dose that
would be received if they were located in a solid wood house. We increase this by a factor of
10 and estimate that the additional handling of branches could cause a dose of about 1 mSv/a.
This assumes that the wood in the area is conaminated up to 3700 Bqlkg with '37Cs. It is
likely that the average wood concentration will be less in most areas, so that the dose should be
less than 1 mSv/a. The dose contribution from this activity could be monitored relatively easily
using external personal dosimeters.



- 44 -
9.2       CLOING AND PROTECMV  EQ
The establishment of radiation protection procedures can also generate waste. In areas that are
highly contaminated, clothing and protective equipment must be cleaned and sometimes
disposed of. A waste control plan must be designed and implemened. In the zones where
contaniination is less than 15 Ci/an2 of 137CS, special protwcfive clothing and equipment would
not normally be required and waste control should not be a problem. A simple change of
clothes before leaving the contamination zone is sufficient.
9.3      MATERIALS AND EOUIPMENT
The decontamination of equipment, such as vehicle tires, also requires waste control. In the
lightly contaminated zones, this would mostly involve washing or brushing of contminated soil
from equipment. No special waste controls would be required if the soil on vehicles is
contaminated to the same level as soil in the general area. However, waste control could be
required at decontamination stations where soil from highly contaminated areas is removed.
Providing that the volumes of radionuclides are small, dilution in water is a reasonable waste
control method. If high concentrations are found, such as those adhering to 'hot particles,
then these should be collected and buried to minimize the dose to workers and the public. The
use of portable rate meters should be sufficient to identify contamination levels above the
background.
9.4      PROCESSING WASTES
There are many potential schemes to process waste. Greben'kov et a] (1993) (Attachment 1)
outine many of these. The important points are
1. Wood wastes (branches, bark) tend to be more highly contaminated than the wood
itself;
2. Removal of wood wastes from the forest ecosystem reduces the ndioactivity in the
long :erm; and
3. The wood wastes are a potential resource.
With the need for energy in Belarus, we suggest that waste processing technologies should
consider the generation of energy, such as electricity or gas. Centraized facilities will simplify
radiological controls because the product, electricity or gas, is relatively clean causing little
radiological impact on the public. We still need to consider waste control from these
technologies because of the production of contaminated by-products. However, the volume of
these wastes, such as ash, will be much smaller than the original biomass, and they can be
disposed of in secure landfill areas. Technologies that may potentially crate atmospheric
emissions must also contain controls for radionuclide releases. These controls are included in
many of the potential plans of Belarus scientists and they are feasible to be implemented.
Emission control devices containing radionuclides must also be disposed of. A firm waste
control plan should be a part of the development of these technologies.



-45 -
Many of the waste processing technologies must be considered on a costvbenefit basis. One
benefit is the removal of radionuclides from the forest and tne reduction of doses in the long
term. The cost must also be compared with the economic benefit from the technology. Many
of the technologies that have been proposed are relatively mature and could be implemented
without much further research. Rapid implementation of these technologies would create a use
for waste wood products that would be urgently required if felling is accelerated in some of the
contaminated areas.



-46 -
10. MITIGATION IN HIIQU  C91MAMIATE 7ZONES
The prognosis in areas with more than 15 Cilkm2 of '37Cs is that wood will soon be too
conminated for conventional uses. There will still be some usable wood in these areas, but
the effort to locate and harvest this wood may be greater than its value. These areas should be
considered with different values of benefit versus cost and be evaluated through a mitigation or
amelioration program. These areas are only about 10% of the total contaminated area and are
sufficiently small that they can be potentially be treated with minimal costs.
The benefits of mitigation are
1. Economic benefit. There is still usable wood in these areas that can prodace some
economic retums. Many of the potential technologies that can produce economic retums are
being evalualed by Bearus scientists and extrnal collaborators. The report of Greben'kov et
al. (1993) (Attachment 1) outlines some of these.
2. Radiological benefit. In the long-term, niitigation measures that remove radioactivity from
contaminated areas are a benefit. This will reduce conmination in future forest products.
The amount of radioactivity removed to have a benefit (especialy when considering cost)
should be on the order of 90% or greater, and definitely greater than half.
3. Forest fires. Forest fires are a concern in the contaminated areas. There are fewer
personnel in these areas to control fires and some of the forests are over-mature and susceptible
to fires. Fires suspend radioactivity into the atmosphere which can be tansported over long
distances and create a hazard to fire fighters. Mitigation techniques to reduce these fires is a
benefit.
4. Psycholoic benefit. One of the most important benefits is a psychological one. The
Belarus people would like to have use of contaminated lands and to feel that they are no longer
victims of the accident.
The costs of mitigation are
I - Cost of technology. There are many technologies and various costs. Greben'kov et al.
(1993) (Attachment 1) outlines many of these and cost/benefit analyses have been done by
scientists at the Radioecology Insttute. The atual cost of a mitigation technology must also
include radiological protection. ITere are simple schemes such as removal of leaf litter and
more complec systems such as gasification plants.
2. Disposal of clean-up products. If radioactive materials are removed from the site, they
must be disposed of. No technology reduces the amount of radioactivity, but the volume of
contaminated products are often reduced and can be more easily disposed. In other words,
mitigation will concentrate the radioactivity on an area or volume basis. Typically, disposal in



-47 -
the ground is planned but this can also cause environmental problems, especially over the long
term. All mitigation strategies transpose the conuamination prob]em into another form and
these must be considered in the cost.
3. Radiological Droteton of workers. Mitigation strategies increase the potential dose to
workers compared with leaving the zones inactive. The potential doses are to workers in the
highly contminated parts of a field operation (e.g., harvesters) and to those handling products
with enriched amounts of radioactivity (ash, slurries, etc.). To reduce the radiological dose,
machinery, such as mechanical harvesters, can be used in the field. This exposes fewer
workers for the same amount of productivity and protects them with some shielding and air
filtration. However, this cost is much greater than conventional techniques, such as workers
with chain saws.
A mitigation or amelioration program can be considered a practice. As discussed in
Appendix B, the International Commission on Radiological protection (ICRP 1977) has
recommended that
- no pracvice shall be introduced unless its introduction produces a net positive
benefit;
- all exposures shall be kept as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA), economic
and social faors being taken into account; and
- the dose equivalent to individuals shall not exceed the limits recommended for the
appropria circumstances by the Commission.
We belicve that the selection of mitigation measures must conform to these basic principles,
and must be part of the mitigation or amelioration program plan.
Various countermeasures for forests have been evaluated by Guillitte et al. (1993). We present
these in Table 10.1, although many of the measures apply to an emergency" situation, as
opposed to the present maintenance situation. However, this table presents a qualitative
viewpoint from a geneml international perspective.



TABLE 10.1
COUNTERMEASURES APPLICABLE TO FOREST ECOSYSTEMS FOLLOWING CONTAMIINATION WllH RADIONUCLWDES
(from Guillitte et al. 1993)
Counterneasure                             Objective                 Time Period           Effectiveness          Comments
Restrict activity in and access to  Reduce direct exposure of        Short-to-long term   Intermediate to high  Requires ongoing progrmme
forests                             populous to contamination                                                  of radiation monitoring to
determine dunation of
restictions. Effective exclusioa
of population may be difficult
and expensive to achieve.
Spraying contaminated canopies with    Reduction of prinary          Short term          Low                   Impracticable acoording to
detergents                          contamination and likelihood of                                            available data; may be
secondary contamination via                                                expensive.
resuspension
Collection and removal of fallen    Decontamination of forest floor,    Sbort-to-medium  Low to high           MInt effective for fallout
needles                             reduction of external dose rate  term                depending on season   dep sited in deciduous forests
just before autumn leaf fall;
only practicable for relatively
small ras.
Defoliation and removal of fallen   Reduction of primary             Short term          Low to high           Expewsive; reduction in
leaves                              contamination of canopy and                          depending oa sumson   photosynthetic performance of
external dose rate                                                        trees and possible toxic side-
effects. Considerable negative
psychological effect likely to
populous.
continued..



TABLE 10.1 (continued)
Countermeasure                             Objective                  Time Period           Effectiveness           Corments
Clear-felling and removal of timber  (i) Reduction of primnary        (i) Short term     (i) High over sbort    (i) Expensive. High dose
contamination of area                               term                    commitment to personnel.
Waste disposal problen. Only
practicable for limited areas.
(ii) increase in fixation of nuclides
within underlying soil           (ii) Long term     (ii) Low to high        (ii) Relative effectiveness
depends on soil type - in
poorly buffered, acid soils
rndionuclides may be made
more mobile.
Ploughing, after clear-felling and  Reduction of radionuclide transfer   Long term        High on soils with    Often impracticable owing to
prior to planting                   to plants by dilution and burial                      high-buffering        such physical constraints as
below rooting zone; promotion of                     capacity               topography and the nature of
physico-chemnical fixation                                                  underlying soil. Ploughing may
processes                                                                   also incrse minenliation of
organic matter with a
consequent incrso of
adionuclide mobilily on
poorly buffered soils.
Scraping and removal of surface soil    Decontamination of forest floor  Medium-to-long   Very high - can be    large volumes of waste
layer                                                                 term                > go% over long tern   genermted together a loss in
forest floor nutrient content
Very expensive mad high dose
commitment to personnel.
Recommended mainly in the
vicinity of human settlements.
continued



IABLE IO. I (continued)
Countkneasure                              Otjective                  Time Period           Effectiveaess           Comments
Forest fire prevention              Reduce probability of secondary   Long-term.          High when fire         Relatively small investment
contaminaiion due to resuspension                    prevention effective   required.
Chemical Ireatment of soil (lime,   Reduction of rmdionuclide tnnsfer   Long term         Variable, depeding     Chemical treatments are
fertilizer, etc.)                   to forest plants                                      on soil type          relatively Simple though
expensive to apply, and may be
ineffective. Negative side-
effects possible
Processing of forest products       To obtain commercially acceptable   Long term         High positive          High initial investment,
including wood, pulp and paper, and    products                                           economic effects       potential problems with
chemicals                                                                                                        marketing, waste treatment,
additiotal dose commitment to
factory personel
Change in forest utilization, e.g.,  Continuation of comnercial       Long term           High positive social   Recommended in areas of low
nursery establishment instead of    utilization to minimize economic                      and economic effects    productivity affected by only
timber extraction                   losses                                                                       moderate or low containation
levels (  0. 37 - 0.56 TBq
km-2)
Aforstation of marginal, low quality    To obtain forest product in the  Long term        Unknown                High initial investment, benefit
land and reforestation of low       long term future and to Wtilize                                              may not be realised for severa
productivity forest areas           contaminated land fonnerly under                                             decades
agricultural production
Mineral additives to supplementary  Reduce contamination of game      Long term           2-3 fold reduction in    Inexpensive in the case of
forage provided for game animals    meat                                                  meat contamination     widely employed cesium
binders
continued..



TABLLLQ10 (concluded)
Countermeasure                            Objective                 Time Period           Effectiveness          Comments
Change in hunting season           To reduce exposure to            Short-to-long temr   2-5 fold reduction in    Highly effective when season is
contaminated neat by selecting a                   meat contamination    timed to coincide with periods
season when animal body burdens                    (depending in          when mushrooms ae reduced
arm mininized                                      particular on whether   in number
or not the animal is
mycophagous)
Change in collection and treatment  Reduction in ingestion dose by  Short-to-long term    High positive effects    Relatively simple and
haibits with respect to forest-derived  increasing selectivity in favour of            on those people       inexpensive to implement,
food products                      products likely to be less                          habitually consuming    although would rely on a good
contaminated                                       products from the      ability on the part of the
forest                consumer to differentiate
between plant and mushroom
species. Culinay treatment
may reduce the nutritional
value of souls foodstuffs



- 52 -
11. COMPARISON OF DOSES FROM FORESTRY WrIT  OTHER EXPOSURES
The Intenational Chernobyl Project published a report (IAEA 1991) in which they compared
their measurements with those reported by officials in the countries of the CIS including
Belarus. The international team reported general agreement (within a factor of 2-4) with the
dose and contamination levels in the official govemnment reports. The CIS official reports
tended to be conservative and to overestimate the dose or contamination level. This suggests
that the doses and contamination levels reported to us by government officials and scientists are
accurate or at worst the upper bounds of the actual doses received by forestry workers.
It is useful to put these exposures from Chernobyl contamination of forests in perspective by
considering sources of natual background radiation. The average annual radiation dose to a
member of the public in the UK is approximately 2.5 mSv/a, of which about 85% is from
natural sources. About half (1.2 mSvfa) arises from natraly occurring radon and its daughter
products (Clarke and Southwood 1989). In Canada and the USA the average radiation doses
are estimated to be 2.2 mSv/a and 3.6 mSv/a respecively.
Radon is usually the dominant source of natual background radiation. In the UK, an action
level for radon content in dwellings of 200 Bq/m3 has been set by the National Radiological
Protecfion Board. Living for a year at that concentration would lead to an annual equivalent
whole-body dose of approximately 0.7 mSv/a. The International Chernobyl Project reports
indoor radon measurements in various locations at Bragin, Belarus, and the radon levels arising
from natural sources ranged from 9 to 470 Bq/m3. These levels could lead to equivalent whole-
body doses ranging from approxnimately 0.02 mSv/a to 1.4 mSv/a.
Thus, the natural background radiation exposure and the exposure from j   'U . * -g 
(Cliff et al. 1985) frequently exceeds the potential exposures we have calculated from forestry
and wood products. This fact, however, does not imply that doses to workers and the pu'Jlic
from contaninated timber and wood products are unimportant. The guiding principle is
ALARA: Make exposures as low as reasonably achievable aking economic and social factors
into account.
We must also remember, however, that the ICRP guidelines used in this report are based on
safety criteria to ensure a low risk. Risks from other forestry activities, such as the operation
of harvesting equipment and felling, may be much greater than radiological risks. This is true
even if exposure doses exceed the safety criteria. Nontheless, we believe that the World Bank
must base its assessment on safety criteria established by international and Belarus authorities,
even if they restrict activities for which the risk is very low.



- 53 -
12. MARKENG POTEIAL FOR PRODUCTS FROM TE CONTAMINATED
FORESTS OF BELARUS
The former USSR was an important supplier of sawn softwood and plywood in Western
Europe. There is an increasing interest in Eastern Europe hardwoods because of the perceived
diminishing supply of tropical hardwoods from Southeast Asia and Africa, as these regions
downsize pmduction to achieve sustainably managed levels of forest production.
The UK was importing about 1.2 million cubic meters of softwood lumber from the former
USSR, but this has fallen because of the recession and because of the political and economic
changes in the former USSR. Finland is currently importing pulpwood from countries of the
CIS and Japan imported 4.4 million cubic meters of logs in 1992.
Private mills in Russia can export directly to forign markets. However, costs in countries of
the CIS are increasing and transportation from mills to ports is getting more expensive, so that
mills at distance from ports cannot compete effectively. Therefore, transportation costs from
the contaminated forests of Belarus could be a negative factor in wood sales. Although the
timber trade in Western Europe expects that, in order to cam hard currency, offers from the
CIS will increase, these offers will be looked at very carefully because of the political situation
in the countries of the CIS. Concerns about reliability of supply and business matters may take
years to resolve.
From a brief survey, it appears there are no specific radiation standards in the intemational
timber trade or in the developed importing countries to date. If there are no government
statutes on the books concerning radioactive lumber, then there will be no restrictions on trade
at present. Regardless of levels of contamination in the Belarus timber, it appears that any
forest product could be shipped. Today it is very much a "buyer bewareu situation.
However, if there are no standards or system of certification in place there couid be serious
repercussions after the fact. If contaminated wood is used unknowingly in house framing, for
example, the importer could be liable for perceived problems and become involved in a long
and cosdy legal action.
Wood products from the conmninated areas of Belarus could become a sensitive issue. Once it
was known that contaminated lumber was in the market place, an environmental protest could
be expected. There could be a great deal of misinformation on possible radiation effects
released by competitors and fringe environmental activists. This could increase the
environmental attacks the timber trade has expenenced durng the past five years on the use of
tropical timbers, particularly mahogany from Brazil.
If contaminated wood from Belarus appears on the international market, an environmental
movement could eventually target all wood from the states of the CIS. This would have a
serious economic impact on there forest industry. Misconceptions about problems with
contaminated wood would be difficult to correct no wate how rational or technically correct
the explanations might be.



- 54 -
Thus, even though we have shown in this report that for a well-regulated forest sector the wood
products are safe for public use, we suggest that the contaniinated wood from Belarus not be
exported unless intemational standards for radioactivity in timber and international certification
standards are in place.
One example of a certification program is that offered by SGS Silviconsult, Limited, Oxford,
UK. They offer certification programs for forest management, forest origin, and quantity and
quality. Independent evaluation to show that the forestry products meet customer specifications
should allay any concerns that wood, which is too contaminated, is being exported. A private
certification program such as this, or one set up by government agencies, would eliminate
potental problems in public acceptance caused by the lack of specfic regulations in the
importing countries.
There also is a large internal market for wood and wood products. Even the more highly
contaminated wood could be used for nonconventional uses such as telephone poles, railroad
sleepers, piling, pier timbers, and lumber and plywood for concrete formwork.



- 55 -
REFERENCES:
Amiro, B.D. and P.A. Davis. 1991. A pathways model to assess transport of radionuclides
from terrestial and aquatic surfaces to the atmosphere. Waste Management 11: 41-57.
Bunzl, K. and W. Kracke. 1988. Cumulative deposition of 137Cs, 235PU, 239240Pu and 241Am
from global fallout in soils from forest, grassland and arable land in Bavaria (FRG).
Journal of Environmental Radioactivity 8:1-14.
Clarke, R.H. and T.R.E. Southwood. 1989. Risks from ionizing radiation. Nature 338: 197-
198.
Cliff, K.D., B.M.R. Green and J.C.H. Miles. 1985. The Levels of Radioactive Materials in
Some Common UK Building Materials. The Science of the Total Environment, 45: 181-
186.
CSA (Canadian Standards Association). 1987. Guidelines for calculating derived release
limits for radioactive material in airbome and liquid effluents for normal operation of
nuclear facilities. CAN(CSA-N288. l-M87. Toronto, Canada.
Greben'kov, A., A. Jouve and M. Dubourg. 1993. Development of technology and
equipment for forest decontamation and radioactive wood teatment. Draft. Centre
de'Etudes de Cadarache, France.
Guillitte, O., F.A. Tikhomirov, G. Shaw, K. Johanssen, A.J. Dressler and J. Melin. 1993.
Decontamination methods for reducing radiation dose from radioactive conlamination of
forest ecosystems - a summaiy of available countermeasures. Science of the Total
Environment 137: 307-314.
Holm, E. and A. Ravila. 1992. Flux of radionuclides and absorbed doses in the forest
indusry. Se1minar on the Dynamic Behaviour of Radionuclides in Forests, Stockholm,
May.
LAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency). 1988. Principles for the Exemption of
Radiation Sources and Practices from Regulatory Control, Vienna.
LAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency). 1990. Reguations for Safe Transport of
Radioactive Material 1985 Edition. Safety Series No. 6, Vienna.
LAEA (Intenational Atomic Energy Agency). 1991. The International Chemobyl Project.
Assessment of Radiological Consequences and Evaluation of Protective Measures,
Vienna.
ICRP (International Commission on Radiological Protection). 1975. Report of the Task
Group on Reference Man. ICRP Publication No. 23, Pergamon Press, Oxford.



- 56 -
ICRP (Intemational Commission on Radiological Protection). 1977. Recommendations of the
Intemational Commission on Radiological Protoction, ICRP Publication No. 26,
Pergamon Press, Oxford.
ICRP (International Commission on Radiological Protection). 1991a. ICRP Publication
No. 60, Pergamon Press, Oxford.
ICRP (International Commission on Radiological Protection). 1991b. Annual limits on intake
of radionucides by workers based on the 1990 recommendations. ICRP Publication
No. 61, Perganon Press, Oxford.
Kocher, D.C. and K.F. Eckerman. 1987. Electron dose-rate conversion factors for external
exposure of the slin from uniformly deposited activity on the body surface. Health
Physics 53: 135-141.
Kohno, M., Y. Koizumi, K. Okumura and 1. Mito. 1988. Distribution of environmental
Cesium-137 in tree rings. Journal of Environmental Radioactivity 8: 15-19.
Kud'1, A., T. Suzuki, D.C. Santry, Y. Mahara, S. Miyahara and J.P. Garrec. 1993.
Effectiveness of tree nngs for recording Pu history at Nagasaki, Japan. Joumal of
Environmental Radioactivity 21: 55-63.
Panshin, A.J. and C. De Zecuw. 1980. Textbook of wood technology. McGraw-HiMU Book
Co., New York, 4th Edition.
Rsmnussen, L. 1991. Uncertainties in Lifetime Risk Projections For Radiation-Induced
Cancer and an Assessment of the Applicability of the ICRP60 Cancer Risk Estimates to
the Canadian Population. L. Rasmussen, Thesis, McMaster University, Canada.
Tikhomirov, F.A. 1992. Countermeasures in the forest subjected to radioactive
contamination. Paper presented at uThe Behaviour of Radionuclides in Natural and Semi-
Natural Environment.' ENEA-DISP, Rome, Italy 10-11 February.
Tikhomirov, F.A., A.I. Shcheglov and V.P. Sidorov. 1993. Forests and forestry: radiation
protection measures with special reference to the Chernobyl accident zone. Science of the
Total Environment 137: 289-305.
UNISCEAR. 1988. Sources, Effects and Risks of Ionizing Radiation. United Nations
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, 1988 Report to the General
Assembly, with annexes. United Nationals sales publication E.88.1X.7. United Nations,
New York, 1988.
Van Voris, P., C.E. Cowan, D.A. Cataldo, R.E. Wildung and H.H. Shugart. 1990.
Chernobyl case study: Modelling the dynamics of long-term cycling and storage of 137Cs
in forested ecosystems. In: Transfer of radionuclides in natural and semi-natural
environments. G. Desmet, P. Nassimbeni and M. Belli (eds). Elsevier Applied Science,
London. pp. 61-73.



- 57 -
Zach, R. and S.C. Sheppard. 1992. The food-chain and dose submodel, CALDOS, for the
assessment of Canada's nuclear fuel waste managemcnt concept. Atomic Energy of
Canada Ltd. Report AECL-10165, Chalk River, ON, Canada. 257 pp.



APPENDIX A
A.1I BIOLOGICAL EF-FFJCI OF IONIZING RMADITON
The potential adverse health effects of exposure to ionizng radiation have been recognized
since early studies on workers exposed to X-mays and radium in the 1920s and 1930s. Current
knowledge of radiation effects is pnmarily based on epidemiological studies of the Japanese
survivors of the atomic bombing in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, studies of populations medically
exposed, radiobiology, and animal experiments. Radiation effects are divided into two main
categories: deterninistic and stochastic.
A. 1.1    DETRMIN STIC EFECTS
Deterministic effects occur at large doses and include nausea, reddening of the skin, clinical
damage to organs and, in severe cases, acute syndromes that cause death in exposed
individuals. A certain threshold dose needs to be exceeded before these effects will occur and
the severity of the effect will increase with increasing dose above the threshold. Typical
threshold doses are in the order of sieverts (Sv) (the term sievert is the unit of the biological
radiation dose) to tens of Sv, depending on the specific effect (UNSCEAR 1988).
Deterministic effects are not expected to be important to forestry in Belarus.
A.1.2    STOCHASIIC EFFE=S
Stochastic effects are probabilistic in nature in that there is only a probability of an effect
ccurring following a radiation dose. For stochastic effects it is assumed that no threshold dose
exists, that is, any dose, no matter how small, will give some increased risk of an effect
occurring. Stochastic effects of radiation exposure includes radiation-induced cancer and
hereditary effects.
Epidemiological studies of exposed human populations show that exposures to sufficiently high
doses of radiation in a short penod of time can increase the risk of cancer in most organs and
tissues of the body. For doses below 0.5 Sv or doses received at low dose rates, the expected
increased risk of cancer is small and difficult to distinguish from the statistical variation in the
natural risk of cancer or from increased risks caused from other factors (Rasmussen 1991). For
these lower doses, risks are estimated using predictive models, which extrapolated the effects
observed at high doses and high-dose rates to low doses and low-dose rates.
Estimates of the risk of radiation-induced cancer has been revised in the past five years. In
1991, the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) published ICRP
Publication 60, "1990 Recommendations of the ICRP" (ICRP 1991a). This document gives
recommended lifetime fatal cancer risk factors to be used for the purpose of radiation
protection (see Table A-1). A lifetime probability of fatal cancer of 5% per Sv low-level
radiation whole-body dose is recommended as the risk factor for exposure to a general
population and 4% per Sv for a worldng population. These values are 3 to 4 times higher than
risk factors previously recommended by the ICRP in 1977 (ICRP 1977).



-A.2 -
Another stochastic effect believed to be associated with radiation exposure is hereditary effects.
Hereditary effects air caused by damage to human germ cells, which may be expressed as
hereditary disorders in the descendants of the exposed individual. Radiation has not been
identified as a cause of such effects in man, but experimental studies on plants and animals
suggest that such effects will occur and may include undetectable trivial effects, gross
malformations or loss of function, and prmature death (ICRP 1991a). For radiation pr'tection
purposes, it is assumed that such effects nay occur in humans as well. For low dose and low-
dose rate exposures, the ICRP recommends a hereditary effect risk factor for severe effects
over all generatons of 1% per Sv gonadal radiation dose for the geneal population and 0.6%
per Sv for a worldng population.
TAILE A-1
Lifetime Probability of Fatal Cancer
(Z per Sv)
Tissue or Organ          General Population       Vorkers
Bladder                        0.30                0.24
Bone marrow                    0.50                0.40
Bone surface                   0.05                0.04
Breast                         0.20                0.16
Colon                          0.85                0.68
Esophagus                      0.30                0.24
Liver                          0.15                0.12
Lung                           0.85                0.68
Ovary                          0.10                0.08
Skin                           0.02                0.02
Stomach                        1.10                0.88
Thyroid                        0.08                0.06
Remainder                      0.50                0.40
Total                          5.00                4.00
Probability of Severe Hereditary Disorders
Gonads                          1.00               0.60
Values relate to a population of equal numbers of both sexes and
ages between 0 and 90 for a general population and ages 18 and 65
for a working population.



APPENDIX B
FTINDAMENTAL PRINCrPLES OF RADIOLOGICAL PROEIO
B. 1 INTRODUCI1ON
The Intematiunal Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) provides guidance for
regulatory and advisory agencies at the regional, national, and intenational levels on
fundanental principles on which appropriate radiological protection can be based. The latest
recommendations of the ICRP were published in ICRP 60, 'The 1990 Recommendations of the
ICRP" (ICRP 1991a). The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) also publishes safety
standards for the protection against radiation tD assist in the interpretation and implementation
of the ICRP recommendations. The recommendations and guidance from these international
advisory bodies will be used in assessing the feasibility of harvesting the forests in the
contuminated regions of Belarus.
The remainder of this appendix will introduce important ICRP and IAEA concepts, describe the
internationally recommended system of radiological protection for occupational and public
exposures, and discuss the exemption of practices from radiological conlrol requirements.
Section 3.0 discusses how these are applied to the commercial use of the Belarus forests.
B.2 PRACICES AND RINTERVENTOIN
Everyone in the world is exposed, to some degree, to radiation from natual and artificial
sources. The system of radiation protection has been developed to define the scope of
mankind's activities that radiation protection principles should apply to ensure consistency over
a wide range of circumstances. To accomplish this, distinctions are made for a 'practice",
which cause exposures to radiation, and 'intervention,' which decreases exposures.
A practice is defined as a human activity that intrcduces a source of radiation exposure that will
incrcase, or is likely to increase, the ecposure relative to that which people normally receive
owing to background radiation. Radiological protection and safety measures can be made to
prevent, minimize, and/or control the exposures that may arise from a pactice, or combination
of practices. Practices include activities involving the use of radiation and Tadioactive material
in medicine, research, industry, agriculture, and teaching; the nuclear fuel cycle (e.g., mining
for uranium, nuclear power reactors, management of radioactive wastes); and other activities
that may increase background radiation exposures.
Intervention is defined as a human activity that reduces the radiation exposure, or likelihood of
exposure, from an existing source of radiation exposure. Since the circumstances causing the
radiation exposure already exist, reduction of exposures can nly be achieved by means of
remedial or protective actions. Situations that might require intervention include chronic
exposure to naturally occurring radioactive material (e.g., radon in homes); historical
radioactive wastes from past activities; and accidents from existing nuclear facilities, such as at
Chemobyl.



B.2 -
B.3 SYSTE OF RAI?IOLOGICAL PROTECN
The objective of radiation protection is to protect man and the environment from undue
exposure to radiation, without unduly restricting the uses of radiation and nuclear activities.
The general aim is to prevent deterministic effects of radiation and to minimize the likelihood
of the occurrence of stochastic cffccts. This is accomplished by keeping expected radiation
doses below threshold levels for deteministic effects, regulatry dose limits, and doses as low
as reasonably achievable (ALARA), economic and social factors being taken into account.
These objectives have been set out in a system of radiological protection recommended by the
ICRP for proposed and continuing practices. Ihe system is based on three fumndaental
principles:
1. Justification of a Practice: No practice involving exposures to radiation should be
adopted unless there is a sufficient benefit to the exposed individuals or to the
society to offset the detrimental effects it causes;
2. Optimization of Protection: Potential and actual doses arising from a practice
should be kept as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA), economic and social
factors being taken into account; and
3. Individual Dose Limits: No individual should receive radiation doses resulting
from practices that may lead to radiation risks that are deemed unacceptable in any
normal circumstances. Maximum exposures to individuals that may arise from a
practice should be controlled by the use of individual dose limits reccmmended by
the ICRP.
B.3. 1    JUSTIFICATION OF k PRACTICE
The justification of a practice involves a choice between possible options and is usually camed
out in two stages. The first stage is the examination of different options and identifying those
options that will do more good than harm, that is, provide a net benefit. The second stage
involves choosing the option that will provide the greatest net benefit. When determining the
net benefit, other detriments and costs of a practice, in addition to detriment caused by
radiation exposure, must also be considered. These may include the costs of protection and
necessay conLrols, nonradiological hazards, social factors, and the influence on public
perception and/or acceptance of the practice.
B.3.2     OPTIMIZATION OF PROTECTION (ALARA)
Once a practice has been justified and adopted, the level of required radiation protection
controls should be optimized so that resources are best used in reducing radiation risks to
individuals and the population. The aim is to ensure that the magnitude of the individual doses,
the number of people exposed (collective dose), and the likelihood of receiving exposures
where these are not certain to occur, are all kept as low as reasonable achievable, economic and



- B.3 -
social factors being taken into account. This is commonly referred to as the ALARA principle.
Protection is considered optimized, and doses are ALARA, if the cost of providing additional
protection does not result in at Icast an equal or greater reduction in radiation risk to individuals
and a population.
Practices are already deemed ALARA if average individual doses are a small fraction of the
individual dose limits and the colective dose is below 1 person-Sv. A sievert (Sv) is a unit of
radiological dose, equal to I J of energy absorbed per kg of tissue, modified by a suitable
weighting factor.
B.3.3     NDVEDUAL DOSE LIMlTS
Individual dose limits are the maximum permissible dose that can be received by workers and
individuals in the public. The purpose of a dose limit is to prevent excessive radiation risks to
an indiviedial that may result from a practice or a combination of practices. Limits are chosen
such that continued exposure just above the dose limits would result in additional risks that
could reasonably be deemed as 'unacceptable.'
The dose limits recommended in ICRP 60 are shown in Table B-1. The recommended public
dose limit is 1 mSv in one year and an occupational limit of 20 mSv/a averaged over defined
periods of five years. In special circumstances, the ICRP recommends that a higher value
could be allowed in a single year, provided that the average over 5 a does not exceed
100 mSv/a, and with the provision that the dose should not exceed 50 mSv in any single year.
B.3.4    DOSE CONSTRAINNS
As explained above, individual dose limits set the level of chronic exposure that is deemed as
unacceptable. Doses that are below the dose limit are not necessarily acceptable unless they are
ALARA.
The use of dose constraints is an effective means to help ensure doses are kept ALARA. A
dose constraint represents the level of dose that can nonnally be maintained in a well-managed
operation.
B.3.5    INTERVENTION
In some situations, sources of exposure already exist with people receiving radiation exposures.
Such is the case in some contaminated areas in Belarus where people are living. Remedial or
protective actions that decrease the level of exposure being incurred are known as intervention.
The ICRP recommends that intervention be based on the following principles:
1. The proposed intervention should do more good than harm. That is, the reduction
in radiation risks from the reduction in dose should be sufficient to justify the harm
and costs, including social cost, of the intervention.



-B.4 -
2. The form, scale, and duration of the intervention should be such that there is a net
benefit of the reduction of the dose.
B.4   EXCLUSION A                 N  ROM RDIOICAL
CONTROL
There are circumstances where a practice can be exempted from regulatory control. There are
two grounds for exempting a prayce or a source of exposure. The first is that the source could
only give rise to a trivial risk or dose and, second, all reasonable steps have ben taken to
minimize the individual and the collective (population) dose.
The IAEA-OCED/NEA (IAEA 1988) recommends that the exemption of sources be based on
the following two conditions:
1 The dose expected to be incurred by any member of the public because of the
practice or source is of the order of 10 ILSv or less per year, and
2 The collective (population) dose from one year of the practice is no more than the
order of 1 person-Sv.
The requirement that the collective dose be no more than 1 person-Sv implies that radiation
protection is alredy optimized (e.g., ALARA). If the collective dose is expected to exceed
I person-Sv, then different options should be examined and those providing the greatest nat
benefit used.
TABLEB1
ICRP 60 RECOMMENDED DOSE LIMIT
Dose Limit
Type              Occupational            Public
Whole-Body             20 mSv/a,         1 hSv in one year2
(Effective Dose)    averaged over defined
periods of 5 a'
Lens of the Eye           150 mSv                15 .Sv
Skin                 500 mSv               50 mSv
Bands and feet           500 mSv               50 uSv
1.  Vith the further provision that the dose should not exceed 50 mSv
in any single year.
2.  In special circumstances, a higher value of dose could be alloved
in a single year, provided that the average over 5 years does not
exceed 1 =Sv/a.



APENNDTX C
REPORT ON THE CONFERENCE OF SPECIAUSTS
OF THE FAO/EAK/MOT WORKIG GROUP ON
THE PROBLEM '7AUSED BY RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATION OF FORESTS
AND POSSEILE WAYS OF OVERCOMING IT IN THE FOREST INDUSTRY
1993 NOV. 9 TO NOV. 11
Joseph G. Szekely and Brian D. Amiro
This was the second meeting of the worlkng group: the first was in Gomel in 1992 July. A
report was prepared and submitted to the International Labour Organizior (ILO), but there
was no response.
This meeting was located in Mogilev because it is near one of the highly contaminated zones.
About 33% of the Oblast is affected by Chernobyl fallout, and 289 000 people have been
relocated and 1900 families are still waiting to be relocated. Mogilev has a logging enterprise
nearby that is using the forestry techniques for harvesting in a contaminated area. A permanent
contmination-measuring station and a test-grid point are also nearby.
On 1993 Nov. 9 the conference began with a welcoming talk by Mr. V. Zorin (Deputy
Minister of Forestry) in which he outlined the problems in forestry in Mogilev and Belarus in
geneal.
A.V. Korotkov of the UN gave a history of the meetings of specialists on forestry in
contaminated areas from its beginning in 1990 through to the first meeting in 1992 at Gomel.
He emphasized the importance of today's meeting in setting programs for the future and in
organizing an international meeting of the problerns of Chernobyl on forestry. He nominated
Mr. V. Zorin to serve as chairman for the preent and future meeting and it was carried
unanimously.
Dr. Maradudin of Russia reviewed the problems of forestry in Russia. He reminded everyone
that Russia has more radioactive contamination problems than just Chernobyl and would like all
to be considered. He commented that foresters are the most affected group in these accident
aeas because they live in the contaminated zones and forestry is a way of life that is passed
from father to son.
The four main topics of research in Russa are the use of forests as a barier, the establishment
of remote fire fighting techniques, protecting health of foresters and development of technology
for using the contaminated forests. He stated that the research results are important because the
contamnuated areas produced 1.5 billion rubles before the accident and now cost 3.6 billion
rubles. He mentioned that Belarus, Russia and the Ukraine have similar laws on food stuffs
and forest management, but the laws are causing great economic harm and solutions are
needed. He emphasized the need to harmonize laws with international standards, rather than
having laws that are more stnngent.



-C.2 -
Dr. Kaletnik of Ukaine emphasized ..e problern seen in Ukraine with the random nature of the
fallout deposition. The random deposition of radionuclides means that many samples must be
taken to identify all the local radionuclide densities in forest stands, even though on the map
they are listed as having one contamination density. He mentioned that they have stationary
plots to measure the time course of the contamination in every zone. His main proposal was
that the members prepare a draft plan for forestry with detailed equipment lists and the level of
funding required so that foreign funding groups will be confident that their money will be well
spent. There is a shortage of whole-body counters and low-background counters. He
mentioned problems with getting funds from the European bank and emphasized the present
regulations are not effective in the countries of the CIS. He asked for rapid completion of new
regulations and suggested that they be reviewed every two to three years.
The representatives on the program for Belarus were Dr. Kizino of Bellesprom, from the
committee on Chernobyi, Solovjev and Domnenkov from the forestry service, Dr. Yakusev
from the Belarus Academy of Science and Dr. V. Ipatiev from the Belarus Research Institute of
Forestry in Gomel. Foreign attendees were H. Raitio of the Finnish Forest Research Institute,
John I. Richards of the FAOIIAEA, Peter Hall of the Canadian Forestry Service and Brian
Amiro and Joseph Szekely consultants to the World Bank.
Dr. V. Ipatiev spoke of the situation in the Gomel district and presented data gathered by the
research institute located there. He mentioned the problems of radionuclide redistribution in
forested areas and especially in wetlands. He emphasized the need to strengthen the scientific
efforts in Belarus and the need for financial support of the Radioecology Institute from national
and international sources. This generated some heated discussion on funding sources in
Belanis.
The head forester from one of the enterprises gave a summary of the contamination in his area
near Mogilev. The enterprise has 267 employees of which 119 are involved in forest
protectior., 67 are forest workers and 49 are professional foresters. He described the problems
facing the enterprise: profits are going down because of lower logging activity in contaminated
forests, there are difficulties in applying new technologies, and there are difficulties in
recruiting new foresters to work in contaminated areas. The safety measures taken in the
forestry enterprise were described. An annual medical with a whole-body count is done in
Mogilev. Each worker can request a second check: twenty-six out of 96 had to be double
checied last year. Each worker has a thermal luminescent dosimeter (TLD).
The enterprise had to pay for wood sampling in the past, but they now have there own
laboratory. The trees and finished wood are counted for 137CS in the entrprise's labortory.
Dr. Yakusev of the Belarus Academy of Sciences spoke about the time-course of radiation
increase in trees. He disagreed with most researchers, who predict an increase in wood
contamination with time. It appeared to us that there was confusion about the baseline. Dr.
Yakusev took the early post-Chernobyl data as the baseline concentration; hence, he saw a



- C.3 -
decrease in time because of the rapid decay of radionuclides with short half-lives. Most people
axe interested in how present conditions are going to change, and take the current situation
where the early short-lived radionuclides have already decayed as the baseline. Thus, most
researchers predict an increase of adioactivity in wood for the near future in contWast to Dr.
Yakusev.
A report discussing the use of more heavily contaminated trees and wood for energy and
chemical production was also given. The projections showed that it was a beneficial economic
use of the more heavily contaminated forest. Some participants felt it was not a suitable use for
contaminated wood within the conaminated zones because the local people might have safety
concerns.
The second day was spent on a field trip to show the forestry activities of the ministry of
forestry in Be!arus. We visited one of the 102 permanent sampling areas established by the
Ministry of Forestry. They have a gnd from which they sample tree cores and soil samples
annually. From this permanent set of sampling areas and an established sampling plan, they
will be able to have a good knowledge of the flow of radioactive contamiination through
different parts of the forest. We had visiteo' the counting laboratory earlier in our visit to
Minsk. It had modern equipment and the information was collected in a computer datbase. A
tree cutting area was also visited. We saw the sampling and counting procedures. The
sampling techniques were simple but effective: the shavings were caught in a box as they flew
off the chain saw. Each one of three logs was sampled twice at the top middle and bottom.
The counting laboratory was set up in the mill and had basic, but adequate, equipment. The
counters required manual background subtraction and the records were kept in a logbook.
They were prepared for record keeping with the logbook and carbon paper. The record for the
stand that was sampled is then used to decide on the end-use of the log. A copy of the record
goes to the workshop and a seal is put on the final product
We saw the landing ne'r the mill, where the logs were separated and graded. Since the
counting laboratory was in the mill, it would be easy for them to check sawdust from finished
products on site and certify the level of radionuclide in the product.
On 1993 Nov. 12, four items were on the agenda:
1. Draft the Statutes that define the International Forest Radioecology Institute,
2. Draft a program in international cooperation,
3. Prepare the preliminary program for the International meeting to be held in Gomnel
in 1994, and
4. Prepare a report on the 1993 Mogilev Conference.



-C.4 -
Under item 1 there was discussion emphasizing the scientific nature of the proposed
international institute. It was decided to prepare a list of projects, equipment needed and costs
so that the institute could be effectively reviewed by international scientific and lending
organizations. The institute will have practical programs to develop forest practices and
technologies for the contaminated forests. The proposed institute would be a separate legal
entity with its own finances and board of directors. A proposal was made by Dr. Kaletnik to
consolidate training activities in established facilities in Kiev University, Ukraine. It was
decided that cooperation such as this type of consolidation of taining within the CIS was
important for success. Dr. Ipatiev was asked to provide a new draft of the charter
incorporating ideas generated by the discussions held in Mogilev. A draft letter describing the
International Radioccology Institute in Gomel will be sent to the World Bank by 1993 Dec. 15
and the complete proposal is scheduled to be finished by 1994 February.
The discussion on international cooperation centered on unifying the regulations of forestry
activities between Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. Draft regulations exist and are expected to be
finalized by the end of 1994. Some participants suggested that temporary regulations should be
declared if it appears that the permanent ones will take time to be approved. It was recognized
that unified regulations will do much to give confidence that the forests are being managed
properly and that radiation safety principles are being uniformly applied. They want to also
prepare common methods for: economic monitoring and assessment of damage; new techniques
of radiation control; universal fire protection and prevention; new technologies for safe
harvesting and reforestation; safety and economic aspects of harvesting and reforestation in the
>15 CiIkm2 zone; clean-up methods; radiation monitoring; establishing norms for 37Cs and
90Sr; establishing norms for finished wood products; and studying radionuclide transfer in
forest fires. Since finances are needed for these projects, the working group will coordinate the
pmjects and search for funds. It was proposed to administer the projects through the
Intemational Radioecology Institute in Gomel.
A draft copy of the agenda for the proposed 1994 October International meeting in Gomel was
circulated. The draft title of the conference is The problems of forestry in Chernobyl and
other contaminated areas. Other suggested titles were 'Role of the forest in mitigation of
contaminated areas" and 'Problems of forestry in contaminated areas and possible ways of
solving them." The conference will last 5 or 6 days and include field trips to the affected areas.
The tentative agenda is as follows:
1. Role of forestry in mitigation,
2. Influence of radiation on forests in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine,
3. Rehabilitation of forests,
4. Experiences in reforestation,
5. Radiation monitoring and control,
6. Norms and regulations,
7. New technologies for wood processing,
8. Fire prevention,



- C.S -
9. Use of forests as resources for fuel and as a technological resource,
10. Fuel resources from waste wood,
11. Wild game management,
12. Field trip to (forestry) enterprises in Belarus, and
13. Two-day field trip to Ukraine.
The cost of the conference will be $200 US/d including lodging, transportation, food, etc.
The final item on the agenda of the Mogilev meeting was to assign the writing of the final
repDrt on the conference to Mr. V. Zorin, the Deputy Minister of Forestry of Belarus.



APPENDIX D
TRIP REPORT ON VISIT TO BELARUS INSITrUTE OF FORESTRY AT GOMEL
B.D. Amiro and J.G. Swekwly
1993 November 12-13
D.A1 GNRL
The Gomel Institute is the oldest forestry institute in the fonner USSR and is now part of the
Bear  Academy of Sciences. Since the Chernobyl accident, they have been studying forest
radioecology and the consequences of radioactive contaminafion on Belarus forests. Their
affiliation with the Academy of Sciences has created some distance between them and the
Ministry of Forestry, and their funding has been jeopardized. In 1993 June, they subnmitted a
funding plan to the World Bank which has been reviewed.
We toured the institute and also their field plots in some of the more contaminated areas of
eastern Belarus. We were hosted by Dr. Victor Ipatiev, Director of the Institute.
D.2 SOME RELEVANT RESEARCH
Ongoing research projects include many aspects of radionuclide transport through forests and
the impacts on forests.
A modelling program has been started to predict the transport of radionuclides through soil.
This program. is slow on being initiated but it appears that the mathematical r.odeller, Dr.
Alexander Dvornik, has joined the institute quite recently. Such a program is definitely needed
in the country, but progress has been slow. There appears to be a need for better information
exchange, and computer software and hardware.
The institute has close ties with the radiomedicine group of the Ministry of Health and there are
staff on site at Gomel. We discussed some of the radiological monitoring of personnel and the
dose levels experienced. This was a fruitftl discussion and we feel that the level of radiological
protection and knowledge by the experts is comparable with that found internationally.
Unfortunately, we could not obtain published reports of the data. Publication of measured
doses to forestry personnel would be a great asset in future planning.
There is a forest radiology monitoring group headed by Dr. Ivan Bulavik. This group has been
measuring radionucide concentrations in wood since the Chernobyl accident. We have used
some of their data in our analyses. It seems that there should be some good potential
collaboration between this group and the Ministry of Forests, both of which now have
permanent monitoring plots. We had the impression that the move of the institute to the
Academy of Sciences may have :aused reduced funding to the institute and che need for the
Ministry of Forestry to initate its own monitoring.



- D.2 -
We also toured a forest genetics lab headed by Dr. Gigori Goncharenko. This group is
studying the genetics of many forest trees and looking at some particular anomalies in the high-
dose areas. This group appeared to be quite active and well connected with the international
literature.
We visited the entomology group and the silviculture group. We discussed some potential
planting techniques in contaminated areas. The silviculture group has developed a planting
machine to establish seedlings in contminated areas. They say that seed broadcasting from the
air has not been successful; this should be a good way to reforest areas while minimizing the
dose to workers.
We visited the laboratory of forest food products. They are investigating the replacement of
native forest species, which are unsafe to eat in contaminated areas, with cultured substitutes.
Therefore, different mushrooms are being studied as are fruit crops such as cranberry.
D.3 F:IELD PLOT'S
We visited the institute's field plots to the east of Gomel in some of the more contminat
areas. Tnese plots include studies on different soil types and in different forests. They also
include studies on a large variety of non-tree forest species and on seedling performance.
The close access of Gomel to contaminated field sites is clearly a bonus for continued forest
radioecology work.
D.4 SUMMARY
The Gomel Institute has the potential to be a good center for forest radioecology researh. The
Gomel location is close to contaminated forests and yet offers the conveniences of a city. The
basic infrastructure is there, but equipment and fcilities require upgrading. There is also a
need to ensure that the programs and funding are consistent with the overall plans for forestry
in Belarus. Research is needed to support fotestiy, but this must be integrated to meet both
short- and long-tenn goals. The World Bank must also consider that there are other groups in
Belarus that are involved in forest radioecology, and that the relative funding must be
reconciled. For example, the Radioecology Institute in Minsk and the Ministry of Forestry,
itself, have ongoing forest radioecology programs.
Information exchange is required, and we had the impression that the institute is not well
connected to forest radioecologists intemationally. This conmection would help to support the
institute, would bring in new techniques and would help to ensure that the needs of forestry can
be met efficiently.



RADIATIONq PROT7ECION CONTROLS
We recommend that a radiation protection program should be established outside of the present
study. However, we have outlined some of the main points to consider here.
E.1 RADIOLOGICAL SAFETY ZONES
The current zoning scheme of the forest areas can be used as radiological safety zoning to allow
for the effective administration of workers and the control of radiation exposures and
contanination. Table E-l shows the classification of radiological zones by contamination level
and radiation dose rates. This scheme could also be used withirn a processing mil to segregate
areas for radiation protection purposes.
TABLE E-l
CLASSIFICATION OF RADIOLOGICAL SAFETY ZONES
Contamination Levels        Radiation Dose Rate
Zone        Ci/ku2    (Bq/c 2)            zSv/h   (pR/h)
0           (1          ((4)            <0.1      (<10)
1          1 - 5       (4 - 20)      0.1 - 0.5  (10 - 50)
2          5 - 15    (20 - 60)       0.5 - 1.5  (50 - 150)
3         15 - 40    (60 - 160)      1.5 - 4.0  (150 - 400)
4           >40        (>160)          >4.0        (>400)
E.2 DOSE CONTROL
E.2. 1    HARVESTING
Minimal effort will be required to control worker external and intemal doses during harvesting
activities in the 1 to 15 Ci/km2 contamination zones. The maximum external dose that could be
expected to be received by a worker is less than 3 mSv in one year. Airborne radioactivity
hazards will be minimal during harvesting activities. We do not see any need for the
occupancy control or the use of respiratory protection.



- E;.2 -
In higher contamination zones, radiation doses could potentially exceed 5 mSv in one year in
the 15 to 40 Ci/km2 zones, and 10 mSv/a in the >40 Cilkm2 zone. In these higher zones,
worker's occupancy time and accumulated doses will have to be monitored such that the
fraction of time spent working in the contamination zones must is
1/S (0.2 f, + f2 + 3 f3 + 8f4 + 10fs) S I
where f; is the ftaction of time spent in contamination zone i during a 2000-h working year.
In the higher zones, some form of respiratory protection is recommended during dusty
operations. With the level of airborne radioactivity expected, simple dust masks should be
sufficient. However, air samples would need to be taken to verify that levels are within the
concentration predicted in this report.
E.2.2    MILLING
There is a potential for abnormally high-radiation fields from the concentration of wood waste
products during the milling process. The man area would be the holding tanks of black liquor.
Radiation surveys will have to be performed to deternine the levels of radiation that actually
are experienced. The most effective means of controlling potential doses from this source is
shielding the holding tank. This is recommended if the dose rate in accessible areas is greater
than 1 LSVlh (100 iRlh). Areas in the mill where dose rates are above 1 LSv/h should be
posted.
There should be no need for any special monitoring or controls for contamination in the mills,
except for pulp processes, which concentrate wood wastes. These areas will have to be
identified and appropriate controls put in place to ensure the wastes are contained and
contamination is not spread.
E.3 CONTAMINATION CONTROL
The objective of contamination control is to prevent the spread of contamination from areas of
higher contamination to areas of lower contamination. The control of contamination can
normally be accomplished by 1) preventing contaiination, 2) monitoring for contanination,
and 3) performing decontamination.
The goal should be to prevent additional contumination from entering the working area. A
simple monitoring program can be set up using portable contamination ratemeters.
Material/persons are considered clean if the meter reads background levels and are considered
contaminated if the b-tckground levels are exceeded.



-E.3 -
E.3.1    ACCESS CONTROL AND CHANGING FACILITIES
The access into contaminated forest areas by workers should be restricted to a minimal number
of entry/exit points. This will facilitate the control of personnel and the monitoring of people
and equipment leaving the area.
Each entry/exit point should have a change facility for forestry workers. Workers should be
supplied separate clothing to prevent contamination of their own clothes during harvesting
activities. This can simply be the use of coveralls. Work boots should ideally remain at the
harvesting site. The change facility should be divided into two sections. The first section is
considered a 'clean' area for workers to change. The other section is wnere workers will
change and monitor themselves for contamination following work in the forests. The "clean" is
only entered when it is confirmed the workers are not contaminated. Clothes that are found
contaminated should be able to be cleaned by simply brushing off the dirt on the clothes. In the
1 to 15 CiIkm2 zones, work clothes should be able to be washed in ordinary laundry. In higher
zones, the laundTying of clothes will require further exaniination. Shower facilities should also
be considered for the higher zones.
In the process mills, controls will be needed where wastes are collected and concentrated. This
would entail segregating these areas into controlled areas, performning routine contamination
surveys, taldng precautions when performing maintenance on systems, and monitoring
personnel and material leaving the areas for contamnination. The same procedures described for
the harvesting areas would be followed.
E.3.2 MONITORING OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT
ARl material, equipment, and vehicles leaving a contaminated harvesting area must be
monitored for surface contamination. A monitoring station can be set up at the entry/exit
points to the area. Portable contamination ratemeters can be used to survey material. Material
with background levels can be released. Those found with above background levels should be
cleaned before removal. This will normally entail brushing or wiping the material clean. The
same procedures would be followed for controlled areas within a process mill.
E.3.3    DECONTAMINATION
The key to contamination control is to stop the spread of contamination at the source. Efforts
should be made to keep equipment stored near the location of work to avoid unnecessary
movement. If material is to be moved, they should be wiped or brushed to remove any surface
contamination that may be present. At entry/exit points, attempts should be made to clean
mberial found contaiinated above background levels. Material thaa! may be covered with mud
can be bagged and allowed to dry until the dirt can be brushed off.



- E4 -
E.4 WORKPLACE AND> ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
E.4. 1    EXTERNAL RADIATION DOSE RATES
Surveys of the ambient radiation fields in the forests should be performed before, during, and
after harvesting activities. Preopertional surveys should verify that external radiation dose
rates are within or below the expected range for that zone (see Table E-1). Routine surveys
should be perforned dung operations to confirm dose rates have not increased or tn identify
any ahot spots." A general survey of the area should also be conducted and documented after a
forest is cleared. The Belarus Ministry of Forests has an established program that should fulfill
these requirements.
Surveys can be effectively conducted using a hand-held low-level background gamma dose
ratemeter.
E.4.2 AIRBORNE RADIOACM=lY1f
Although airbome radioactivity is not expected to be a hazard for operations in the 1 to
15 Ci/km2 zone, spot air samples should be aken during dusty operatons to verify that
airorne contamination are below the levels predicted in this report. This is particularly
important if dusty operations are going to be performed in the greater than 15 Ci/km2 zones.
E.5 DOSIMETRY
E.5.1     EXTERNAL DOSIMETRY
Workers will have to be monitored for extenal raditon doses to ensure regulatory limits are
being met. Currently the workers are being monitored for their total dose received both at
work and at home. It is important that the occupational dose be separated from the general
anbient doses received by the workers. In the harvesting areas, dosimeters can be kept at the
changing facilities. In the under 15 Ci/kni zones, dosimetry will be used strictly for
compliance monitoring. The type of dosimeter will need to be sensitive enough to measure the
level of doses and rugged enough to withstand the physical handling that it likely to occur. A
thermoluminescent dosimeter (rID) is the best choice of dosimeter in this situation. They can
be wom for extended periods of time (months) before reading is required, which make their use
morc cost effective. For higher contamination zones, control monitoring will also be needed.
The frequency of reading will be greater to ensure workers are not exceeding their allowable
dose for the zone.
In processing mills, direct reading dosimeters will probably be the most cost effective means of
dosimetry. These dosimeters would be required to be worn for entry into controlled areas.
Doses can be read directly from the dosimetry and recorded when the worker leaves the area.



- E.5 -
E.5.2    INTERNAL
It is recommended that a whole-body counting program be establish for forestry workers. The
purpose of the program would be to confirm.that workers are not receiving significant intakes
of 137Cs and that protective measures are appropriate. Whole-body counting is readily
accessible in Belarus, and workers often use these facilities at present.
E.6 TASPORTATION REGULATORY REOUIREMENTS
The IAEA Regulations for the safe transport of radioactive material (IAEA 1990) require
material with an activity concentration greater than 70 000 Bq/kg to be transported as
radioactive material. The maximum permissible levels of 3700 Bq/kg in the wood is below this
and therefore is not subject to transportation regulations.
Some control is recommended. The number of transport routes should be kept to a minimum
to help facilitate contamination control. Wood leaving a harvesting area for processing must be
surveyed for loose contamination, as described above. Transport vehicles carrying wood
products that are leaving the Be)arus zoned area should also be surveyed for contaniination to
ensure no oDntamination is being spread into clean areas.



RAD:IATION REGUILATIONS IN BELARUS FOR FORESTRY
The maximum radiation dose limitations in Belarus are those of the former USSR and are
similar to those in other nations. The authorities in Belarus are preparing new regulations,
which are expected to lower the maximum dose allowed for radiation workers and the public in
line with the ICRP 60 guidelines (ICRP 1991a).
In Belarus, Russia and Ukraine, laws on proection of workers and the public during forestry
activities are also being reviewed and new common regulations are expectd to be in place
within one year. In addition, The Ministry of Health in Belarus has formulated new regulations
on radiation protection, which have been submitted to the govemment and are expected to be
proclaimed into law in the near future.
At present the forestry activities are regulated by two draft documents that we describe below.
Translations of two documents (Regulation 1: 'Temporary protection norms for scientific
workers 1993 April to 1994 April' and Regulation 2: Radiation safety for forest works in the
zones from 15 to 40 Ci/kIn2) detail the guidelines to be used to protect workers in the
contamination zones. These regulations build on regulations of the former USSR and a series
of laws passed in 1987. The two Belarus regulations that we reviewed are based on a
maximum dose to workers of 1 mSv/a in the low-to-intermediate contamination zones and
5 mSv/a for workers in the high (>40 CiIlkm2) contamination zone (although the formula in the
temporary protection norms uses a maximum dose of 1.2 mSv/a as the maximum dose).
Regulation 1 limits activities in zones from 15 to 40 CiIkm2 and assumes that the intemal dose
is negligible if suitable precautions are taken. Respirators are required by law for workers in
areas with contamination levels of greater that 15 Ci/k:m2 if the activities create dust.
Regulation 2 limits activities from 10 Cilkm2 up and requires measures that take into acoount
all sources of irradiation including external exposure, irradiation of skin through contact,
intemal exposure through inhalation, and intrnal exposure through foodstuffs. These
maximum dose levels allow the forestry workers to work at dose levels appropriate to members
of the public (1 mSv/a) rather than those given for radiation workers (20 mSv/a) in ICRP 60
(199la).
Both regulations set out procedures for washup after work and the use of protective clothing,
decontamination of equipment and accidentally contaminated workers and waste disposal and
contamination control. The external dose to forestry workers is regulated by limiting the length
of time they can work in.the various zones. The formula is set out in Regulation 2.



-F.2 -
The "special passport," described in Regulation 2, is needed for work in contaminated areas.
The passport process is a way of guaranteeing that the area of work has been monitored and
that someone has taken responsibility for sending workers into the area and that someone has
taken responsibility for monitoring. The passport forn has the name of the enterprise doing the
work, including its address and phone number; the name and title of the official or executive
responsible for radiation safety; a list of the activities allowed in the contaminated zone, the
time allowed for each activity and any restrictions that may apply; the passport lists the law and
date of passage that the activities are allowed under, and the date of issue and the date at which
the passport expires. The passport is signed by the head physician, the responsible person from
the enterprise, the name of the protection service that issued the passport and the number of
copies of the passport that has been issued to workers.
There is also a special form described in Regulation 2 listing the length of time a worker can
spend in each zone with contamination greater than 10 Ci/krm. It contains the name of the
enteprise and the enterprise unit, the date, the name of the responsible person signing the
form, the zone, the total time of work in the zone, the beginning and ending clock time (h:m)
and the time of issue.
The regulations are in line with common practice in the use of radioactive materials in other
contexts and in other countries. In fact, in some aspects they may be stricter than practices in
other countries. The radiation safety principles of defining a maximum permissible dose,
eiminating all additional exposures, and minimizing exposure doses to as low as reasonably
achievable (ALARA) are included in the radiation protection regulations in place and proposed
for Belarus.



Tree Species in Contaminated
Zones of Belarus
Pine
49.0%
Sa -Oak and Others
4.0%
Birch                  Fir
16.0%           -     60%
Aspen
Alder    11.00%
14.0%
FIGURE 1



Relative Size of Contaminated
Zones in Forests in Belarus
1-5 Ci/km2
1.40Mha|u 
!; ,. i..;!,, !!|;  F  _>40 CiZkm2
| 1i  11 1 *|,;!- ,  '1   | 0.04Mha
*5-11540 Ci/km2
5-15 Ci/krn2        0.17Mha
0.3OMha
FIGURE 2



|Change in Radioactivity due to RadiooicalDca
1.2
1
,O0.8    |  \                             - Cs1 37, 30 years
- Cs134. 2.06 years
o 6                                         - Pu239, 24.065 years
M:                                           ...\   Sr90, 29.1 years
0.2
1980      2000      2020      2040      2060      2080       2100
Year
FIGURE 3



Soil Concentrations
Belarus Ministry of Forests Monitoring Plots 1993
Soil Concentration (kBqtm2/cm)
0             100             200             300             400
0-1
1-2
2-3
3-4
E  4-5 _
~5-6
o    6-7
7-8                                        0  1.7 Ci/k2
8-9                                        5.3 C/krn2
9-1 0                                    M 22-6 Ci/kem2
-iO-15
15-20
FIvURE 4



1993 Concentrations in Monitoring Plots
5                 Spruce Data from Belarus Ministry of Forestry
m wood
4
M bark
v 3 _                              foliage
m  saplings
1
1.7             1.78              5.3             22.6
Surface contamination (Ci/km2)
|1993 Concentrations in Monitoring Plots|
5 j       .         Pine Data from Belarus Ministry of Forests
4    wood
s_ mbark
foliage
2
I
0.83        2.8         4.4        4.8         5.3         7.8
Surface Contamination (Ci/lcm2)
1993 Concentrations in Monitoring Plots
wood
6- M  bark
comfoliage~
cr 4          alngs
2
0
1.7        1.8        2.6        5.3        11.2       26-2
Surface Contamination (Ciikrn2)
FIGURE 5



Trends in Wood Contamination with Time |
I            average concentration per CVkm2: Gomel Institute Data            |
0.25
* pYine
0.2 -    *Mbirch
* aspen
* oak
CD0.15      D alder
0.1 
0.05
1987          1988          1989          1990
Year
FIGURE 6



| Trends in Wood Contamination with Time
1                       1 - 5 Ci/km2 zone
0.4
- pine
0.3 -                                                 MM birch
45 0.2-                                    m~~~~~~~~~ aspen
~~~0.2                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~oak
0.1                                                   CM alder
0 o'11 MM.                                            1
1990          1991           1992
Year
Trends in Wood Contamination with Time
Trends in5 - 15 Cikm2 zone                             l
2
1.5                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~ pine
- birch
t.5
0.5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= alder
0
1990          1991          1992
Year
Trends in Wood Contamination with Time |
15- 40 Ci/km2 zone
3                                                     IM pine
CD                                       00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~birch
2                                       M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aspen
0
1990           1991           1992
Year
FIGURE 7



Trends in Wood Contamination with Time 
Averages of 5 Species. I - 5 Cikm2 zone
0.4
* MinFor
*i-     Gomel
- exponential
02- - linear                        -
0.1
0         .       
19B6            1988             1990            1992             1994
Year
FIGURE 8



Scenarios of Wood Contamination
Average for the 1-5 Ctkrn2 zone
2
Decay from 1993
Exponential to steady state
1. S                                     Unear to steady slate
0.
0 1                             I                                   I 
!                    ~~~oi
1980                 2000                 2020                 2040
Year
FIGURE 9
Scenarios of Wood Contamination
6    ~Scen     Average for 5-15 CUlman zone
Dwcay from 1993
5  Exponentfal to steady state
{   \         _ Si~~~near to steady state
34                                      I \ * Data
1980                  20D                   2020                   2040
Year
FIGURE 10






