Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12511-BY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJhCT
APRIL 29, 1994
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
rh document has a mes d dib_utn and may be used by recpnts only In the performanc of
their o__l duties. Its contents may not othrwi  be didosed witou Wodd Don



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit: Ruble (Rb)
July 1993 Oct 1993 Mat 1994
1 US$             1200 Rb  3500 Rb  12000 Rb
WEIGIfS AND MEASURE
Metric System:                                                  Radsloo
Gal 2    giga-calodes (heat)                     Ci  -   Curie - intemational measure of radiation dose
ha   =    hectares                          '3Cs  =   Cesium-137 (radionuclide)
km2    =    square kilometrs                mSvla   =   milli-Sieverts per annum
m3   =    cubic meters                         Sv  =   Sievert - intemational measure of the biological
mt   =    metric tons                                   equivalent of an absorbed dose of radiation
GOVERNMENT OF BELARUS
FiSCAL YEAR
Jamnuy I to December 31
A. ..REVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
AAC               anmia allowable cut                           ILASA              International Isdttute for Applied Systems
AECL              Atomic Energy of Canada Limitd                                  Analysis
Belgiproles       Belarus State Institute for Forest Ptojects   IMF                iternational Monetary Fund
(of the Ministry of Forestry)                 IRR               intemal rate of return
Belgosles         Belarus State Forestry Planing Institute      IS                 inteational shopping
(of the Minisay of Forestry)                  IWRa              International Waterfowl and Wetlands
Bellesprom        Belarus Wood Processing Industries (a                            Research Bureau
complex of state enterprises)                koAkoz             col',ctive farm
BNB               Belarus National Bank (the Cental Bank)       Kirov              Belams S.M. Kirov Technical Institute
CIFFC             Canaan neragency Forest Fire Centre           LIB                 mited intemxtionl bidding
DC                direct contracfting                           LS                local shopping
EA                Environmental Assessment                      MDP               medium density fiberboard
EBRD              European Bank for Reconstruction and          MinEcon            Ministry of the Economy
Development                                  MinFin             Ministry of Finance
ER                Environmtal Review                            MinFor             Ministry of Forestry
ERR               economic rate of Ietin                         MinNat           The Ministry of Natura Resources and
FAO/CP            Food and Agriculture Organization of the                         Nature Preservation
United NationstWodd Bank Cooperative         MTR                mid-term review
Program                                       MUV               mnufacturer's unit value
FMIS              Foresay Management Information System         NGO                non-aovernmental organization
FSP               Forestry Stategic Plan                        ob                 (solid) over bark
FSU               former Soviet Union                           obla.r             province
GEF               Global Environment Trtust Fund                PCR                Project Completion Report
GNP               gross national product                        PIU               Project Implementation Unit
GIS               geographic information system                 rayOn             district
GKI               State Committee for Management of State       SoE               satement of expenditres
Property                                     sovkhoz            state farm
GoB               Government of Behlrus                         STF                Systemic Trnsformation Faciliy
Gomel             Forestry Resea:h hisoute of the Belarus       TA                Technic  Assistance
Academy of Sciences                           ToR               terms of reference
Goscomchernobyl   The State Committee for Chernobyl of the      WHO               World Health Organiaion of the United
Republic of Belarus                                             Nations
ICB               international competitive bidding             Zapovednrik        nature reserve
ICP-Forests       Intemational Cooperative Progamme for         25tU 'Sghtly' protected naural area
Forests of the United Nations Economic       zelonla zo,ra      urban green belts
Commission for Europe and the
Commission of the European Communities



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
F'ORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
pare #
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........                       ...............  i
PART I. INTRODUCTION . .................................. I
PART H. THE FORESTRY SECTOR ................................. 2
A. Forestry in the Economy . ...............                 .............  2
B. Forestry Resources and Management...............                                  3
C. Wood Production and Processing ................................ 5 
D. Forestry and the Environment ................................    7
E. Chemobyl-contaminated Forests ................................    9
F. Forestry Sector Institutions  ................................   12
0. Sector Policy Issues ................               ................   14
PART m. THE PROJECT  .............................   17
A. Project Objectives .............................   17
B. Project Description  .............................  . 17
C. Detailed Component Description ........................... ..   20
D. Project Costs and Fwncig .............................. 31
E. Procurement ................................                                     33
F. Disbursements  .............................   36
G. Environmental Considerations  ................................    38
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in October 1993. Members of the Appraisal team
included Brian Berman (Task Manager), F.rederick Hasselback (Financial Economist) and Peter Ianacbkov (Lawyer)
from the World Bank; and consultants Louis Carbonier (Natural Resource Management Specialist), Gene Elis
(Economist, FAO/CP), and Matfi Kirkkainen (Forestry Mechanization Specialist). Project preparation was carried
out by the Govermnent of Belarus preparation team included Valentin P. Zorin (Team Leder and Forestry Vice
Minister), Egor 1. Sharak (Project Manager), Mikhael L. Ambrazevich, Prof. Oleg A. Atroshchenko, Dr. Vladimir
F. Baginsky, Vladimir 1. Borodin, Prof. A. S. Fedorenchik, Valeri V. Gerasimyonoc, Dr. Victor A. Ipajtev,
Michael V. Kuzmenkov, and Ivan G. Mysleinko. Technical assistance for preparation was provided by the World
Bank, the FAO/CP and from the Consultant Trust Funds of the Canada, Dutch, Finnish and Swedish govermments.
Additional direct assistance for component design and preparation was obtained from the Danish and German
governments. Peer reviewers were Horst Wagner (AGRNR) and Francois Wenc6lius (EC2AW). The economic
analysis was reviewed by John Dixon (ENVPE) and Wiliam Magrath (AGRAP). The Division Chief is Geoffrey
Fox (EC4NR) and the Department Director is Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR).
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. -



Table of Contents (cont.)                                                           pae#
PART IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................  42
A. Organization and Management ...............   42
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ...............  49
C. Accounts and Audits ...............  49
D. Implementation and Supervision Plan ...............   50
PART V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICING  ...............   52
A. Production ...............                                                   52
B. Markets ............... 53
C. Prices ...............                                                       55
PART VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...............   56
A. Benefits ............... 56
B. Economic Evaluation ...............  61
C. Risks ................ 66
PART VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............   69
FIGURES:
1. Forest Age Distribution ........................................ 3
2. Forestry Species Distribution ...............                                 4
3. Annual Harvest ...............                                                5
4. Air Pollution Forest Inpact ...............                                   9
5. Contaminated Forests ............... 11
6. Machinery Cost of Operation ...........       ......................... 65
BOXES:
1. Forest Resources ............................................ 3
2. Belesprom Production ......................................... 6
3. Belaus Wetlands and Wetland Forests ............................... 7
4. Conservation and Protection Areas ................................. 8
5. Stumpage Fee Comparison  ..................................... 15
6. General Economic Reforms Relevant to Forestry & Wood Industries ....  ....... 22
7. Potential Indust:ial Utilization of Smanwood .......................... 54
8. Stunpage Fee Cost Recovery .................................... 55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank athorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)                                                             Rug
TABLES:
1. Project Cost Estimate ......... ..............................  31
2. Financing Plan ...........................   32
3. Project Procurement ...........................   33
4. Disbursement Categories ......................................  36
5. Projected Annual Harvest ...........................   52
6. MinFor Sources and Uses of Funds ............................ 58
7. MinFor Budget Projections ....................................  59
8. Summary of Economic Rates of Retum  ............................  63
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
ANNEXES:
1. Selected Documents in Project File
2. Policy Implementation Timetable
3. Potential Harvesting Levels
4. Detail Cost Tables
5. Operations of the Ministry of Forestry
6. Project Implementation Schedules
7. Environmenal Impact
8. Disbursement Schedule
9. Economic Analysis
10. Stand Models
11. Procurement Packages
DIAGRAM:
Proportions of Different Assortments: Principles for Pine
MAPS:
Map 1: Forestry Distribution - IBRD 25408
Map 2: Radioactive Contamination - IBRD 25407
This document has a restricted distribion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contes may not otherwise be disclosed without Wald Bank authozlin.



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUIMMARY
Borrower:           Republi of Bear
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Forestry; Belarus S.M. Kirov Technical Institute; private sector
machinery manufactur.
Loan Amount:        US$ 41.9 million
-            Plan
IBRD      US$ 41.9 million
GoB/MinFor    US$ 10.8 million
Indtstry     US$ 2.0 million
Totdal Project C0-:  US$ 54.7 mMlon
Terms:              15 year term, including five years of grace, at standard IBRD variable interest
rate.
Project Objectives:   Forestry is one of the few exploitable natural resources in Belarus.
Therefore, GoB seeks to restructure this sector to ensure that it can make its
optimal contribution to the economy. The short-term objectives of the
project are to introduce significant sector policy and management reforms, to
re-erse the decline in wood harvesting and wood production levels, to
improve operating efficiency and cost-effectiveness, to substitute for wood
imports and possibly expand exports. The medium term objective is to
improve forest resource management and thereby improve the economic value
of the standing tree-stock within the framework of a market oriented sector.
Project Description: The Project entails: (a) Sector Policy Reform: to effect real price increases
in the stumpage fees, introduce open market pricing, liberalize both the
international trade and the domestic market for wood and wood products, and
prepare MinFor enterprises for future privatization; (b) Production Support:
implementation of intensified silviculture; creation of seed facilit!!s; provision
of harvesting equipment and spare parts; and introduction of efficient
harvesting practices; (c) Forest Fire Protection: provision of adequate
protection against forest fires and prevention of the spread of radionuclide
contamination through forest fires; (d) Forest Ecology: policy for the
preservation of biodiversity and species mix; monitoring of forestry air
pollution and radionuclide contamination; monitoring of fuelwood utilization;
couerpa   funds .rom Industi beneficaries of fte Prototype Fund



BELA RUS: Foresty Development Project
Loan and Project Summay
assessment of the ecological impact of the harvest and maintenance systems;
iproved MinFor regulatory fumnctions and enforcement; and planng of
wedand, drained wetlands and Chernobyl-contaminated forest resources; (e)
Instuion Building: professional training in forestry and business;
preparation for operations within an open market economy; forestry research;
planning of forestry higher education reforms; and, (t) Techical Assistance:
engieeng and testing of manurin prototypes; computerized plaming
system for forestry resource management; and upgrading forestry resource
planning. staff training, project management and audit.
Project Benefits:   The short-term benefits include increases in the amount and efficiency of
wood harvesting, cash flow generation from small wood sales, savings of
foreign excharge (wood import substitution and reduced -uel consumption),
and reduction of roundlog and sawnlog imports. The purchase of spare parts
and the implementation of new barvesting methods will arrest the output
decline of the last five years, preserve efficient manufactring and harvesting
job-places, and significantly reduce fuel consumption in havesting. The fire
protection component will reduce fire-related forestry losses and reduce the
risk of spreading the Chernobyl-radioactivity contamination through the smToke
plume. Medium- and long-term beefts include improved econonic value of
the standing trees, improved forest quality and tree health, and improved
forest ecology.
Project Ris
Risk External to
the Project:       (a) Macro-policy Reforms: potential for slow implementation of macro-
economic policy reforms could delay sector reforms, with a negative impact
on sector and project performance; (b) Sector policy Reform: potential for
insufficient reforms, and inadequate implementation of agreed and planned
policy reforms; (c) Indust   AdJustment: the wood processing industry
may inadequately adjust to real price increases for roundwood and fuel,
passing most of the cost increases on to consumers, and become uncomPetitive
with imports; (d) Market Demand: both the risk of higher product prices
and the general state of the macro-economy may result in overall dampened
demand for wood and wood products, thereby lessening project benefits and
cash flows from wood sales and stumpage; and, (e) Wood Markets: wood
industries may find themselves without adequate working capital to purchase
wood in the open market. This would dampen market demand for wood. As
a further result, the Wood Exchange may not function successfully during its
initial period, discouraging its initiators from pursuing its effective functoning
over the longer term.



BELARUS: Forestry Devdopuet Project
a1= and Project S-"                      H
Rbb~~~~~~~                     iii m
to the Project:    (a Ideque Loca Flnancng: GoB is operating under a very tight budget
ceiling and will rely on sumpage fees and profits from wood sales to fund the
local cost component of the project. Any shortfalls in these revenues could
place at risk project components with significant local cost funding by GoB;
(b) ImplIto Risla this is the Bank's first investment project in
Belarus with untested project management skills and procedures; (c) MinFor
Enters: intensified silviculture operations would be carried out by
MinFor's rayon-level enterprises: while they have both the managerial and the
manpower capacity, they need strengthening to achieve efficiencies and
adequate performance standards. Project training is planned to mitigate this
risk, but the enabling environment to provide managerial incentives may not
be in place due to inadequate reform implementation; and, (d) Prvate
Sector Devdopment: the Project plans to provide competitive access to the
private sector to harvest contracts. If, however, the private sector harvest
contraors do not emerge during this period of transition, the Project
objective of achieving operatng efficiencies through promotion of competition
from the private sector in forestry services may not be achieved.



BELARUS: Forestry Development Project
Loan and Project Summay
_ jv _
Table: Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Local Costs Foreign Costs   Total Costs  Total as % Base
Production Support:
- Intensified Silvicultue         3.6        12.6         16.1             34%
- Mechanizaion Spare Parts        0.5         3.1          3.6              8%
- Seed Facilities                 0.3         3.9          3.9              8%
Environmental Support             1.1         7.4          8.5             18%
Technical Assistance and
Institution Building              5.3         9.4         14.7             31%
Base Costs                       10.9        36.0         46.8            100%
Contingencies:
-Physical                        1.1         3.6          4.7             10%
- Price                          0.8         2.3          3.2              7%
Total Cost                       12.8        41.9         54.7            117%
as%                         23%         77%         100%
Table: Estated Dsbursemes
(US$ millions)
Bank FY              1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Amnual                4.4   15.0   12.5    7.0    4.0
Cumulative            4.4   19.4   31.9   38.9   41.9



BELARUS: Foresty Development Project
Loan and Project S_nay
Esifmated Closing Date:     March 31, 2000
Poverty Category:           not applicable
Environment Category:       B
Economic Rate of
Return:                     33% (composite)
Maps:                       IBRD 25408 - Belarus: For -4 v Distribution
IBRD 25407 - Radioactive Conmimation
**     Esnvironmental         and Reviews available:
Belams: Assesg the State of Forest Mfre Protecion in the Rqepblic of Belars (Canadian Interagency
Forest Fire Centre, Canada, 1993).
Belarus: Forest Developnt Project: EnWromnmt Revew (Buroconsult, Netherlands, 1993).
Belands: EnWronmenal Review of Forested WetWandis (Intrationa Waterfowl and Wetands Research
Bureau. UK, in ooperation with Ministry of Enom , Nation Forest and Nature Agency, Denmark,
1993).
Environma  Assessment of Radolgcal Consequences for Foresy in Cotamined Areas of the
Repblic of Belmw (A{CL Research, Canada, 1993).



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORI
PART I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          Belarus has both - rural economy and a culture where traditionally forests have played
a major role. Extensive forests have existed for centuries in Belarus and most have been used for their
timber and fuelwood, hunting, aid gathering of food and medicines. After almost total destruction during
World War II, the pre-war forested lands were replanted within the first three post-war decades.
Additional lands have been afforested since then, so that nearly 40% of Belarus' total land area is under
forest cover, 63% of which is used commercialy. As a direct result of this destruction and replanting,
only a very small portion of Belarus forest is currently 'mature" forest (i.e. over 80 years old).
1.2          Domestic demand for wood and wood products is currently depressed. Economic
recovery from the current transition to a market economy is expected to increase demand for wood in
excess of existing mature forest resources. Belarus requires a new forestry management plan which, in
the medium term, adjusts the forest resource management and its age structure for sustainable commercial
output. Its resourcer management problams have been compounded by the contamination of 20% of the
forest resources by the radioactive fallout from the Chernobyl accieent.
1.3          The breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU) has placed significant strains on the
forestry sector and the wood industries by disrupting trade and contributing to the balance of payments
problems now facing Belarus. Traditional FSU markets are no longer easily accessible to Belarus' wood
industries. Mature sawlogs needed to maintain wood indstry operations at capacity are no longer being
imported from Russia, and machinery spare parts and replacements are no longer readily available.
Consequently, the forestry sector now faces significant declines in harvesting and processing capacity.
This capacity decline is more severe than the decline in domestic wood demand.
1.4          Against this background, the Government of Belarus (GoB) has requested assistance to
help finance projects both in forestry resource management (from IBRD) and to support the wood
processing industries (from the Bank and the European Bank for Reconstuction and Development -
EBRD). This Project was prepared between April and June 1993 by the Ministry of Forestry, with the
assistance of the Bank and FAOICP, using technical assistance funds from donor govermments.
Environmental reviews were conducted through November 1993. The Project was appraised in October
1993.



-2 -
PART II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR'
A. Forestry in the Economy
2.1          The forestry sector has a significant role in the economy of Belarus; in 1990 it accounted
for between 3 and 4% of GNP and employed an estimated 175,000 people. Total annual harvest of wood
is about 9 million m3 ob2, which is low in relation to the present growth of the forests (Ane 3). The
annual allowable cut (AAC)3 will increase dramatically over the coming two decades as the middle-aged
and marng4 forests reach fill maturity. Forestry is one of the few exploitable natural resowrces
available to the Belarus economy, and therefore could, with its future sustainable production potential.
play an increasingly important role in the Belarus economy.
2.2          Industnal logging and wood processing represented just over 5% of the industial output
and about 6% of the industrial employment of Belarus in 1990. Past trade in roundwood (los) and
processed wood was mainly with other republics of the FSU; wood exports were just 2.5% of total
exports in 1990, and were balanced by imports of roundwood and sawnlogs. Present wood industry
production is now mainly directed at the domestic market. The potenial to export processed woods t'
Western Europe and Scandinavia, trading on Belarus' present advantage as a low cost producer, has not
yet been developed. Poor product quality, poor marketing, and transport disadvatges, are the primazy
constraints.
2.3          All of Belarus' industries were highly integrated in the industrial stmcture of the FSU ad
have been seriously affected by the disintegration of the USSR. The Government now faces the difficult
task of takig control of a complex system directed toward large scale production and achieving the
r;est ing, downsizing, and transition of the industrial complex to a market system. This transition
equally affects the wood processing industries, the supporting meclaiical industries for the maufacte
of forestry and wood industnes equipment, and the constrction sector (as a major user of wood
products).
2.4          Wood Energy. At about 4%, the share of the wood-based fiuel in national energy
production and consumption is presently quite small. Notwithstanding, the use of fuelwood (and peat-
fuels) is higher than most countries in the FSU. There is a significant demand for wood for heating,
mostly in rural areas, but also in urban centers. Present annual fuelwood consumption is an estmated
1.    Based onForestry SubsectorReview inBelanrs:Agncudare SectorReiew (Report 11955-BY). Seealso
Statistical Appendix to this report.
2.    ob = (solid) over bark.
3.    AAC is the biologically sustaiable harvest of mture and immre wood, and is based on assessed anna
growth, and the age scture of the forest, and the assessment of volumes to be thinned (see Ane 2).
4.    40 to 80 years of age.
S.    Sawnlogs, veneer, funiture and parts, construcdon elements, pulpwood.



- 3 -
3.5 million m3. Consumption was expected to decrease due to the ongoing gasification programs in rural
areas. However. the recent changes in imported energy prices now enhances the economic viability of
fuelwood as a substitute for imported heating fuels. With relatively low levels of investment in adaptation
of heat-only-boilers, an increase in fuel-wood utilization for industrial heating could be achieved.
2.5          Non-wood Forest Products. Edible and non-edible forest products are only partally
exploited by the local market. Exports of such products are minimal. Hunting, mushrooms, berries,
honey, medicinal plants, and various saps and resins constitute the potential range of products. Natur-
based tourism in Belarus has good potental within eastern Europe and the FSU. The potential for
western European tourism has not been developed.
B. Forestry Resources and Managment
2.6          Forest Lands. Total forest lands
(i.e. the so-called "forest fund") cover about 8                        '000 ha  aLs%
million ha (Box 1), with an actual forest cover of    Tota Lan Area     20,760  100%
just over 7 million ha. Forests are fairly evenly    Forest Fund         8,054   39%
spread over the country's six oblasts (provinces)
with the highest forest cover (i.e. more th  40%)    Festry Foud Onery67p 8,054  100%
in the Gomel oblast in the South East (Map 1).    Ministr of Foresay     6,739   84%
Forest lands are flat, favoring m ization of   K      of Dese              369    5%
forest work.  About 20%  of forests are in    Z         & N        Parks   350    4%
wetlands and drained wetlands, making extraction    Odier                   76    1 %
Of wood and forest regeneration in these areas
sometimes difficult. Wetlands exploitation also  Box 1: National Forest Resoure (1992)
aises ecological questions on appropriate use and  Sourc: MInFor
sustainability (see para. 3.70 et seq.).
2.7          Age Disbution. The average         t d
age of the forests is around 35 years with a very                                  U
unbalaced distibution in age classes. About 48%   4M
of stands are younger than 40 years and only 12% ,
are older than 60 years (FIgure 1). This is the   .m
result of an intensive effort, begining at the end uom - 
of World War 1U until the 1960's, of reforestation    uU , v
following forest destuction and over-exploitation    goo                           los m   B t
of older stands, and afforestation of marginal  o _        i.E   <U
agricultural and drained wet-lands. Given the      'o   "-  4  o
relatively high proportion of poor soils in Belams         Am ' -
there is scope for further expansion of forest      mmus sIms *lqw     Id_
cover to marginal agricutural lands that may be  Flgwe 1: Fores Age-as Distibution
taken out of production in the fuure.      Source: MinFor



-4 -
2.8          Forest Speies.   Forests are
mainly composed of conifers; pine (Pinus             Psno GM
silvestis) represents 58% of the forest cover, and
spruce (Plcea exelsa) 11%. The forests also
include broadleaf species: the soft broadleaf
species include birch, alder and poplar,
representing 27%  of the forest cover; the
hardwoods including oak, ash, maple and                                    Hardwooii 43
hornbeam, and cover about 4% of the forest area
(Figure 2). About 70% and 55% respectively of
the naton's hard and soft broadleaves are In the   sprue 11.
southern-oblast's wedands areas (Box 3).6                            o Broadls 27X
Figure 2: Species Distribution
2.9          Resource Potental. The total soure: MinFor
standing stock of wood is now about I billion m3
or about 135 m3/ha. By comparison, stock was 90 m3/ha in 1970. The growth rate is presently estimated
at 3.6 m3/ba/year. This should allow for an AAC of up to 15 million m3 ob, given the need to build up
standing stock and taking into account that about 80% of the forested area is exploitable. According to
exisfing yield tables, Belarus forests will have an estimated growth potential of 5.9 m3/halyear from about
2005 to 2010. This should allow for a futre AAC of about 25 million m3 ob (by comparison with the
present harvest of about 9 million m3 ob anmually) (Amnex 3). About 40% of wood extracted from
forests is for industrial uses and the other 60% has potenal for pulpwood and firewood, as well as for
other traditidonal uses such as building and fencing poles.
2.10           aU       t:  Forests under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Forestry (lor) -
84% of the total national forest cover - are adequately managed (considering MinFor's limited financial
resources) for sustained yields of wood and non-wood products and for environmental protection.
Conservative silvicultural methods, insufficient financial resources, and the lack of a market for
smalwood' are the factors that have contributed to over-dense immature stands. This density reduces
fiture yields and increases forest health and fire risks.
2.11         Post-harvest Renrai: Since the end of World War II, four million hectares have
been replanted by MInFor, about 30% with selected seedlings and the balance with whatever planting
material was available. Although difficult under Belarus' conditions, natural regeneration was achieved
on about 15% of the forest lands. About 300,000 ha of new forest have been established by afforestation
of abandoned agriculture land. To support this relafforestation effort, MinFor has developed seed supply
facilities (seed stands and seed orchards). MinFor also has investment plns for modernization of the
seed and seedlig services, and the contiuous introduction of selected superior genetic stock, which this
Project proposes to support (para. 3.30).
6.    Mission esdmates in the absence of the data on wedands species from the ongoing inventoiy.
7.    Semi-commercial timber that rests from matenae felling (thinning) of immature trees.



-5-
C. Wood Producfion and Processing
2.12          Loggn. The annual volume to
be logged is determined on the basis of proposals  t   ad     e b
prepared by MinFor, according to detailed forest
management plans. Total annual harvest from
Belarus' forests has been fairly stable over the last
three decades between 10 and 12 million n3 ob,
and is now about 9 million e3 ob (Figure 3).'    ,
The recent declines in both mature wood harvest
and thinnings are due primarily to decreasing
machinery capacity, and the reductions in the
MinFor budget, but these are less than the
temporary decline in market demand (paras. 5.1               Minp    iSc* ot
et seq.).                                      asua burnt of ethe forest cout
tow qprax 0.8m ob.
2.13          Analysis9  of  USSR   wood  F1gure 3: Annual marvest (MinFor fores")
harvesting data for the late 1980's suggests over- source: MinFor
logging of mature timber stands, including in
Belarus. Yet field evidence, and the Project appraisal team's modeling of the actual Belarus case, both
show that some of the general assumptions used in these analyses are not applicable to Belarus. The
Project appraisal team concluded that Belarus has not been over-exploitng its forest resources (Amn
3).
2.14          Logging in MinFor's forests is the responsibility of MinFor's rayon-level enterprises
(mainly for thinning) and Bellesprom's logging enterprises (for final clear cuts only). Logging operations
ar-  mechanized and mostly carred out under the traditional stemwood method10. Most of the logging
equipment is of Russian origin, frequently more adapted to Siberian than to Belarus conditions, mostly
outdated, and environmentally unsuitable. MinFor and Bdlesprom have started using the assortment
method"1 for about 10% of their total harvest and have acquired a limited number of harvesters and
forwarders. These modernization efforts are stalled now as a result of capital shortages for equipmn
investment.
2.15          Wood Processing. Belarus has an important, but fragmented, wood processing sub-sector
which was designed to fit USSR industrial priorities. The main operator in wood industnes is
8.     Consisting of just over 8 million ni3 ob from the MinFor forests and about 0.8 million m3 ob from all other
forests (Annex 3).
9.     The Forest Resources of the Former European USSR (Iernational Institute for Applied Systems Analysis,
1992).
10.   In which trees are felled and delimbed in the forest, skidded to roadside, and transported in full length
directly to the sawmill.
11.    Where, after felling and delimbing, roundlogs are cross-cut at the logging site, and the diameter-based
assortments transported to roadside by tractor-trailers (i.e. skidding is eliminated).



-6-
Bellesprom, a 'voluntary organization'
that includes 32 enterprises ranging from                       Processed    as %
logging to firniture manufacture, a small                         Wood       Total
pulpnull, and paper factories (based on                   Unit Produion        elarus
imported  pulp). I    Bellesprom   has
dominated the wood processing sector    Particleboard  '000 m3       437       93%
(Box 2) based on its past allocation of all   Plywood  '000 n3       114       73%
MinFor's mature timber stands.  It    Furniture**   US$ mw.    $41.2           69%
harvests between 2.5 to 3.0 million m3    Sawnwood     '000 m3       531       35%
roundwood annually (representing over    Fiberboard    '000  2     7,217       17%
90% of the annual MinFor mature wood
availability) and  produces sawnwood,    () 192 (**) first half 1993
plywood, particle  boards, fiberboard, I
furniture, matches, and small amons of Box 2: Belleqom Producfion
pulp. The second largest concern is the  Source: BeWom  ports
Bobrusk wood processing industry. It was
privatized from the former Ministry of Wood Industries and has not joined the Bellesprom 'association."
It accounts for 10% of sawnwood, 27% of plywood, 62% of fiberboard and 14% of furniture production.
Most of MinFor's 86 rayon-level enterprises process wood, but only about 1 million m3 ob anmnally from
thinnings, also passing on (under the State Order system and the centralized distribution system) wood
for processing by other State enterprises.
2.16         The wood processing industries are ill-adapted to present market opportunities and they
are ill-equipped to process the present and potential smnallwood dominated output from Belarus' forests;
even less so to search for and exploit export opportnities to non-FSU countries. The wood industries
used to process about 7 million m3 annually, of which 6.5 million m3 was produced locally and 0.5
million e3 (large diameter logs) was imported from Russia. Production in 1992 declined to 6.4 million
m3 (6 million m3 domestic roundwood and 0.4 million m3 imported rommdwood and sawnlogs) - a 7%
average annual rate of decline since 1989.
2.17         Processing Sector Constraints. The wood processing sector faces three nin problems:
*     The most efficient processing facilities (i.e. those of Bellesprom) provide primary
processing for only 35% of present annual forest harvests (Box 2); the other 65% is
processed in numerous small and generally inefficient sawmills. The result is a
significant waste of forest resources and generally poor quality of final products. An
effort to restrucure existing scattered sawmilling capacities and to reduce raw material
wastage was initiated a few years before the break-up of the PSU, but it did not produce
any significant results.
*     Existing forest resources are under-utilized since the wood processing industry has
insufficient capacity to process smallwood. The pulp industry is weak and mechanical
12.   This sub-sector is cuntly under detailed review by the EBRD for potential investmens. GoB is actively
planming the privatization of each of these enterprises, and 50% have been identified for the near-term.



-7-
wood-processing industries are not equipped for smallwood. Two MDF13 plants are now
under consideration for financing through the proposed EBRD investnents, which would
utilize some of the smallwood volume as well as wood-processing wastes.
*      The sector operates with ageing equipment and obsolete technologies, and with high rates
if labor, raw material and energy consumption. This results in waste of forest and
energy resources, substandard product quality resulting in difficulties in exporting and
mediocre economic efficiency of the sector.
2.18          One of the most significant constraints to the sector's development is the absence of an
open, competitive local market. Bellesprom operates as a virtual monopoly; its individual enterprises
need to be restructured into smaller, competing entities. To date only four enterprises have been
privatized. GoB agreed under the Bank's Re itation L1o4 to identify priority industries for
privatization; the Beesprom enterprises are among the top priorities.
D. Forestry and the Environment
2.19          Biodiversty  and  Nature Conservation. "   Biodiversity  in  Belarus has high
national and inerational significance, since forests and associated wetlands (Box 3) are habitats of rich
and diversified flora and fauna. In addition to species diversity, Belarus also has a variety of unique
ecosystems because of its location at the juncture of the western and eastern European ecological zones,
The Belarus wetlands lie in the Polessie lowland area (in the Brest, Minsk and Gomel oblasts) dominated
by the Pripyat River basin (Map 1). This lowland has a total area of 8.8 million ha (42% of the total area
of the Republic) with wetlands cover about 4 million ha. of the Poleksse. About 25% (1.6 million ha) of the
wetland is under forest. This wetlands forest is also 20% of the total forest lands of the Republic of Belarus.
About 26% (2.2 million ha) of the Polesske is covered by peat soils, with about 80-100,000 ha. of the peats
covered by forests.
Wetland Forest Species: The wetlands forest species mix is domnnated by broadleaves - soft (birch, alder,
poplar and willow) 75%, and hard (oak, ash, maple, hombeam) 15%, with some spruce 10% (mission
estimates). This contrasts with the national average conifer dominated species mix - spruce 11% and pine
58%, soft broadleaves 27% and hard broadleaves 4% (F1gure 2). The wetlands areas therefore support the
country's major concentration of the relatively scarce broadleaf species, estimated at 55% of total soft
broadleaves and 70% of total hard broadleaves.
Box 3: Belarus Wetlands and Wetland Forests
Sources: Mnsy of Agrilltue; MinFor mission estms.
13.    MDF = medium density fiberboard.
14.    Approved by the Bank's Board on November 16, 1993 (Report P-6147-BY).
15.    See GEF Project: Belarus Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (Report No. 11042-BY, August 21,
1992).



-8 -
with consequent high value for its gene pool. Some of the last remnants of the primeval lowland mixed
deciduous forest of Europe are found in the west of the country. Given the strong cultural significance
of forests in Belarus, people still have a high degree of traditional knowledge about forests and forest
products which have all but disappeared in other European countries. Systematic efforts to record this
local knowledge, to codify and analyze it, are now urgent if this knowledge is not to disappear.
2.20         Nature conservation  is well
established in Belarus, but it requires increased                         '000 ha  as %
attention, financial resources, and more modem  MinFor Forest Fund          6,739 100%
approaches to conservation education if the nature  Productive              4,245  63%
reserves are to survive. Areas designated for   Protected                   1,549  23%
conservation, with varying degrees of protection,  Conserved                 943  14%
cover just over 1 million ha (Box 4).  They    National Reserves            1,329 100%
include, Zapovedni1a (national and oblast parks,  Zapovedh                   252  19%
conservation areas, etc.), the Belovezhskaya    Zakzi                        690  52%
National Park, Zakiznikl (lightly protected areas),  Zelonia zon'M           288  22%
and zelonia zona (urban protected green belts). In  Belovezhskaya National Park  99   7%
addition to this, 37%  of the MinFor forests  I
(about 2.5 million ha) are managed for various  Box 4: Conservation and Protection Areas 1992
protective and recreational objectives as well as  Souce: MinFor, MinNat
for nature conservation.
2.21         The network of protected areas, due mainly to lack of funds, has four main problems:
(i)   it does not yet cover the whole range of the country's biodiversity (several additional
National Parks of 170,000 ha, Zapovedl of 107,000 ha, and Zakintk are planned, but
not yet established);
(ii)   the protection/conservation zone system  is increasingly at risk, in particular for
Zapove&dnk, because of increasing illegal exploitation of forest resources by adjacent
populated areas and inadequate law enforcement capacity;
(iii)  inadequate infrastructure maintenance and development, and declining facilities for
protection and recreational activities; and
(iv)   inadequate environment/conservation education.



2.22          Forest Stess Factors. Forests
are stressed by air pollution," forest fires, and the   ioo   ldz   t   
Chernobyl contamination (para. 2.24 et seq).     Box
Figure 4 compares forest defoliation data"7 from  o%
B    e  I  a  r  u  s           w    i  t  h
all of Europe: the degree of defoliation, ascribed    4ox
primarily to trans-boundary air pollution, is    20I
systematically  monitored on 600 sample forest            ME L           l - L  =           I
plots, in accordance with international standards.    B.. No.       9.. Nut.       DeL Eur.
Results show significant defoliation of pines -         AU             Pine        readiam
only 20%  are reported as having defoliation of          <10            =  >10-25S
less than 10%. Belarus pines are significantly           >51            M   >SOX aud dead
more air pollution stressed than the average
European pines. The soft and hard broadleaves,
with about 50% having less than 10% defoliation,  SIure4: AIrPlueIo   rt   I
are less stressed than local pines or the European
broadleaf average.
2.23          Forest fires are becoming an increasing concem of MinFor. During the 1980's, the
number of registered forest fires varied from about 800 to 4,800 a year with correspondg damaged
areas averaging about 2,800 hectares annually, ranging from a few hundred to the spectacular forest fires
(which affected about 20,000 ha) of the sunmner of 1992 as a result of an exceptional drought. These
1992 fires highlighted the inadequacy of the present forest fire protection resources and the need for
increased public education in fire prevention.'8
E. Chernobyl-contamilated Forests19
2.24          The major environmental issue affectig forests in Belarus is the radioactive contamination
resulting from the damage to the Chernobyl mnclear reactor in 1986. About 20% of the national forest
16.    See Belams: Environmental Staegy Sty (World Bank Report No. 11926 BY) for a fuler discussion on
air pollution and forest defoliation.
17.    Belarus is a member of the Intemational Cooperation Programme for Forestry (ICP-orestuy) of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the Commission of the European Commuies. Members
of this program include al the countnes of Western and Eastern Europe, the Baltic States, Tudrwy, Belarus,
Ukraine and Russia. This program excdnges data on the impact of air pollution on forests, and serves
to monitor the pan-European state of the forests as one of the indicators of the impact of trans-boundary
industria air pollution.
18.    See Republic of Belaru: Forest Fires Assessment and Protecion Strateg (Canadian Itergency Forest
Fire Cente, 1993 - Annex 1).
19.    See Beliam: Enironmental Strategy Stuy (op. cit.) for a fuller discussion on the legacy of Chernobyl,
and Environmeal Assessment of Radiological Consequences for Forestry in Conmned Areas of the
Republc of Belarus (AECL Research, 1993 - Anme 1).



- 10-
cover (1.46 million ha) was found in 1987 to be contaminated2' with Cesium-137 (137Cs) and Strontium-90
with 30 year half-life2t and with 24,000 years half-life Plutonium-239,240 in varying degrees (Map 2).
The operative indicator in Belarus is the level of 37Cs contamination which, for the forest resources' area,
is as follows:
Radioactivity Levd         Area of forest affected
(Cilkm2 from 13Cs)            ('000 ha)      (%)
I to 5                       993     68%
>S to 1S                      279      19%
>15to40                        164      11%
>40                          25       2%
Total                             1,461    100%
2.25          The population in the areas with > 15 Ci/kma  contamination was resettled by GoB; in
areas with levels between 5-15 Ci/knm there has been voluntary resettlement. The evacuated areas were
assigned to MinFor for management, "rehabilitation" and fire protection. There are a mmber of forestry
issues (worker radiation protection and health, commercial exploitation of the contaminated timber, land
and forest resource maintnance and management, fire protection, etc.) that require resolution before
MinFor can manage these areas effectively. The incidence of human-caused forest fires in the evacuated
areas has increased significantly in the last few years. This increases the risk of contamination transfer
to neighboring oblasts in Belarus and other countries through the smoke plume, and the health risk to the
fire-fighters.
2.26          Perhaps the most significant impact of the contamination has been the psycho-social
impact both on the residents of the contaminated areas, and on the potential international buyers of
Belarus' agriculual and forestry products. Recent analysest indicates that the levels of accumulated
contamination in most of the wood are sufficiently low, by international radiation safety standards, that
they should be acceptable in international trade. However, the public and market perception of the
20.    Contaminaton is measured as Curies (Ci) per sfe  area - the Cuie is a measure of irradiation
transmitted from radionuclides. Radioacdvity exposure, or biological equivalent dose levels, are measured
in Sieverts (usualy milti-Sieverts per anum - mSv/a). The International Commission on Radiological
Protection has set nuclear-industry and radiological worker exposure maximum dosage at 20mSv annually.
A forest harvest worker continuously exposed year-round in the 15 Ci/km2 (of "3Cs) zone would receive
an annual dosage of 2mSv/a (AECL Research, 1993).
21. The half-life of a radionuclide is the period of time in which it decays to half its radioactive strength; in
each subsequent equal half-life period it witl again decay by half its stegth: i.e. in 60 years a '37Cs
radioncide vwill have passed two of its 30 year half-life periods and therefore be at 25% of its original
stregh
22.    WorkshoponIntemtonal Heah-reStued diesfoUlowmngte ChemobylAccdet (WHO European Center
for Enviroment and Health, Rome, December 1993).



- 11 -
problem, notwithstanding the facts on the contamination levels, may give rise to market resistance to
Belarus' wood products.  Recent analysis of the exposure risks to workers in forestry and wood
industries2' also indicates that, with some prudent protection measures, workers face no discernible health
risk. Nevertheless the psychological effect of working in known contaminated areas requires that special
measures be taken to alleviate the worker's health fears.
2.27         Radiation has generally well documented effects on forest plants and animals, including
reduced growth and yield, loss of reproductive capacity and, in extreme cases, death. Among plants,
pine forests appear to be the most sensitive to radiation. In the 30 km zone surrounding the Chernobyl
plant (MNap 2), lethal effects and morphological changes have occunred in pmnes, but other species
(mainly beech, aspen, and oak) appear to have suffered almost no visible damage. Mushrooms, wild fruit
and berries, and game - which flourish in the evacuated area - have a high level of contamination; this
poses a serious threat to human health since these products are very popular in traditional cuisine.
2.28         The youngest trees (i.e < 20  r                       --
years) are the most contaminated age-class, i.e.                                    No
about 70% of this age class are in contaminated
areas (Fig   S). The next largest group is the   e  *
21 to 40 years age-class, where 30% of these
utees are in contaminated areas followed by the   4s    *_
harvestable trees (26% on over 80 years old).       * 
The  age-class distribution  of the  surface   -o                                   n
contamination, however, is signficanty different   o    l
from the average age-class distribution of the total   -x o04
forest fund (Figure 1), where these age-classes             ., , fr..,,)
are  nadonally  only  19%, 29%  and  2%          1 .
respectively of the total forest. By contrast the
largest national age group (41 to 60 years -41%   Ngie 5: Contamnated Forests
of total forest) has the lowest relative area of Sourc MiFor
contamination (6%). The implications of this skewed distribution of contion is that there is an
immediate concern for the harvestable wood and also for the maintenance of the young stands. In these
two lowest age classes, the quantity of radionuclide uptake relative to wood volume will be greatest over
time.
2.29         Recent data suggests that containton in the standing trees is increasing at the rate of
between 10 and 25% annually. This raises concerns that much of the standing mature wood stock in the
medium contamination areas (i.e. between 5 and 15 Ci/knr) may not be acceptable for commercial
utilization after 1998 to 2010. The increasing contanation of the standing stock, the skewed age-
distribution, and the issues noted in para. 2.25 above, are significant factors determining the future forest
management strategy in the contamiat  areas.
2.30         An impressive and comprehensive set of measures has been taken to cope with the effects
of Chernobyl. Those relevant to the agriculture and forestry sectors include: regulations to monitor and
23.   Environmntal Assesmea of Radiological Consequces for Forestry in Conwmnnated Areas of the
Republic of Bdeans (AECL Rarh, Canada, 1993).



- 12 -
prevent the movement and sale of contaminated foods; various agricultural countermeasures including
efforts to decontaminate soils; and technical measures to reduce radionuclide transfer from the soil to
crops and pastures. Measures related to forests include: cutting down and burying the so called "red
forest" which died from irradiation; afforestation of about 6,000 ha of the highly contaminated area;
development of preliminary and specific forest management rules according to area-specific radioactivity
levels; and establishing, within MinFor, a laboratory in charge of monitoring contamination levels in
forest products nation-wide, and developing security guidelines for forest work in contaminated areas.
2.31         While these measures in forestry are commendable, there is still an urgent need to develop
a better understanding of three major questions:
*     How can esng forests be pro,jerly protected and managed, and how can forest
products in conta  ed areas be best utilized? Methods and techniques need to be
devised and used for protection of forests from fire and disease, safe forest work, and
extraction of "clean" wood from contaminated areas.
*     To what extent should afforestation be used to mitigate the effects of radioacbve
contamikation of the soils? The respective merits of afforestation and other biological
methods need to be assessed; revegetation methods and techniques should also be
developed for the evacuated areas.
*     Can the economy afford to leave the contaminated forests - 20% of Its total forest
resource - under-utilized and under-maitained? Given the shortage in Belarus of
mature wood for both domestic demand and for potential exports, and the need in the
medium tenn to increase overall production from the now maturing stock.
F. Forestry Sector Institions
2.32         Forestry related institutions and organization are under pressure for three main reasons.
First, the disintegration of the Soviet Union has resulted in a significant transfer of responsibilities from
the cental union-level to the republics. Second, the transition to a market economy is having a negative
impact on the sector's institutions, and these are inadequately prepared for the demands of the new
economic system. Third, ongoing budgetary problems have reduced the scope of all forestry operations.
2.33         Mninstry of Forestry. MinFor is in charge of implementing national forest policy,
enforcing forestry legislation on all forest lands and managing 84% of the nation's forest lands. The
Ministry is decentralized; only about 40 staff forms a small central administration headed by a Minister
and two Deputy Ministers. The Ministry is assisted by six technical units (para. 2.36). Implementation
and local administration is through 6 provincial (oblst) services and 86 rayon-level forest enterprises.
This gives MinFor a strong and competent operational basis.



- 13 -
2.34          MinFor headquarters is structured in five Departnents or Sections:
(a)    The Technical and Scientific Department, with responsibility for forest exploitation and
wood processing, and the scientific and technological aspects of forestry;
(b)    The Forest and Hunting Department, in charge of forest management, silviculture, forest
protection, and hunting;
(c)    The Economic and Planning Department, responsible for overall planning and finances;
(d)    The Procurement and Investment Section, in charge of MinFor infrastructure and
equipment supply to forest enterprises; and
(e)    The Control and Accounts Section which has a technical inspection function, and keeps
the MinFor accounts.
2.35          MinFor has insufficient capacity to develop forest strategies and policies for the entire
forestry sector (this used to be located at higher centralized levels within the USSR), or to properly
regulate forestry related activities by contractors on its lands, and on forest lands of other owners, but
under MinFor's regulatory jurisdiction.
2.36          MinFor manages six organizations with technical assistance and operational support
functions in the forestry sector:
(a)    The Belarus State Enterprise for Forest Management ("Belgosles") (500 staff), prepares
the forestry resource management plans for all Belarus forests.' It used to work as a
center of excellence for the whole USSR, and 40% of its activities were for other
republics, mainly Russia. With the collapse of the USSR, Bdgoses is over-staffed to
serve the needs of Belarus alone. It has only limited financial resources, and is actively
seeking conuracts in the FSU.
(b)    The Belarus State Institute for Forestry Projets ("Delgiproles") (100 staff), designs
MinFor's infrastructure (forest roads, forest enterprise buildings), devises technical and
management regulations, and manages parks in urban centers. For the last two years it
has been responsible for the development and planning of superior tree selection, seed
procurement, the planning and design of seed facilities, seed quality control, and some
seedling production for genetically selected stock.25 It is also plans afforestation.
(c)    The Center for Scientific Organiation of Labor (40 staff), is responsible for improving
labor efficiency in MinFer's forest enterprises; it also manages the laboratory that
monitors radioactive contamination in forests.
24.   i.e. Including all the forests not under the management of MinPor (Box 1).
25.    Seedling production from local (mostly unselected) seed is also undertaken by eah rayon-level enterprise
for its own reforestation program.



- 14-
(d)    Two Technical Stations (20 staft), in charge of technical assistance to forest enterprises,
one for forest seeds and the other for forest protection respectively.
(e)    The Production and Sales Enterprise (20 staff), has operational procurement and trade
responsibilities, under the authority of MinFor's Procurement and Investment Section.
2.37         Foresty Manpower Training. Forestry training in Belarus has been to very high
scientific and technical standards. University training in forestry and wood processing is provided by the
Belarus S.M. Kirov Technological Institute in Minsk ("Kirov"), which was a center of excellence for
the whole of the USSR. Studies are organized according to Soviet standards, but the intention is to
reform the Institute to come closer to Western standards. The Institute suffers from decreasing budgetary
support and declining fees-revenue as student recruitment is now limited to Belarus. Total student
enrollment for the four and a half year Forestry Engineering course is about 450. Forestry technicians
are trained in the Polodsk Polytechnicum, dose to Vitebsk; 150 students graduate every year after a
three-year course of study. The Forestry School of Borlissov trains about 150 forest guards and
specialized workers per year, after two years of training.
2.38         Research  The Belarus Academy of Science Forestry Research Institute at Gomel
("Gomel") was a leading center for forestry research in the FSU. Research programs, until the breakup
of the FSU, had been very efficient, with a strong operational focus. However, research activities are
now threatened by reduced state budgets, which have forced severe cut-backs in the research programs.
Also, forestry research has not kept abreast with scientific developments at major national institutes
specializing in temperate forests research.
G. Setor Policy Issues
2.39         Sector policy issues fall into five major categories-
*     pricing and returns to the economy from the national forest resource;
*     replacement of the state order and product allocation system of the centrally planned
economy with market distribution;
*     the closed, non-competitive domestic wood and wood product markets, and tightly
regulated international trade in these products;
*     the lack of competitiveness in the wood processing industries; the virtual Bellesprom
enterprises' monopolies at the oblast- and rayon-levels, and the absence of entrepreneur-
based services for harvesting and wood; and
*     the need to privatize Bdlesprom's constituent enterprises and MinFor's rayon-level
enterprises.
2.4)         Wood Trade and Pricing. Production and trade of standing wood and lc:gs continues
to be centally planned and administered by Belcontract, a state trading company, and by local



- 1s -
authorities. Under GoB's plans presented in conjunction with the Rehabiltation Loan the State Order
system was to have been phased out by the end of 1993 (Annex 2, Attacdment 2). Trade of p,ocessed
wood product is now theoretically under a mixture of command and emerging market systems. But 90%
of MinFor production of roundwood and sawnwood is now being delivered under state orders and the
Belcontract administered centralized distribution system, to various state enterprises. The mindmal
remainder is available for trade on the open market. Pricing is determined by Belcontract and does not
reflect market conditions.
2.41         Stumpage Fees.   These are determined by
decisions of the Council of Ministers, and are fixed at low levels,          USS/1m3 
which bear no relation to either the economic value of the    Belarus            100
resource, or to the costs of proper forest management. Although    Poland        10.00
the Council of Ministers has recently increased the fees by 500%,    Estonia     16.00
this adjusted the nominal rate with no change in the real rate.    Czech Republic  17.00
Stumpage rates still remain low  in absolute terms, and in    Swede              11.00
comparison with Belarus' wood-trading neighbors (Box 5). Thus    Swed            12.00
the past policy of an effective high level of subsidy to wood    F
processing operations, and to consumers, continues.        o 5e
Box 5: Stumpage Fee Compwlson
2.42         Policy Reform. During the processing of this  (Oct 1993) Soura: Mison srey
Project, and the accompanying dialogue between the Bank and
GoB, a program was formulated and tentatively agreed upon, for significant sector policy reforms that
address the issues listed below (Annex 2). These reforms represent a major first step to implement, at
the sector level, the economic reform program agreed by GoB with the IMFW  and with the Bank.'
2.43         The elements of the sector reform program were confirmed at Negotiations. They are:
(a)    Macro-policy Reforms applied to the specific case of the forestry sector:
(i)    phased elimination of the budget-subsidy element in the financing of MinFoes
production functions, and the implicit subsidy to the wood processing industries;
(ii)   liberalization of international trade in wood and wood products; and
(iii)  liberalization of the domestic wood and wood products market (specifically the
elimination of the state order system from the distribution of product and
administered prices);
(b)    Sector-specific Policy Reorms (mostly within MinFor's own operations) to:
(i)   increase private sector participation in the wood industry, and related services;
26.   Under the Systematic Transformaton faclit (STh approved by the IMF Board on July 28, 1993.
27.   Under the Rehabilitation Loan: see also "Concordance" (Annex 2, Attachment 2) - a matrix matching
GoB's commitments given under the Rehabilitation Loan with Forestry Sector policy reform requiments.



- 16 -
(ii)   establish competitive markets for wood, wood products and forestry services, and
the establishnment of a formal c2en wood market by MinFor;
(iii)   prepare MinFor enterprises for privatization; and
(iv)   preparation of a timetable for the privatization of the enterprises under the
Bellesprom association (paras 2.15 et seq.).
2.44          These policy reform measures are not without their economic and social costs. Market
liberalization could result in restructuring of the wood industry, with some downsizing and even closures
of enterprises, but with eventual increases in production efficiency and a market orientation for the
industries' products. This restructuring and adjustment may cause some transitional unemployment. The
liberalization of the wood market will increase the price of domestic fuelwood. Vulnerable social groups
could face hardships. The understandings reached with GoB under the Rehabiion Loan are to
address these, and similar, transitional issues through the job retraining and social safety net reforms,
without undue distortions to the macro- and sectoral-policy reforms or to the industrial restructuring
process.



- 17 -
PART m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1          The short-term sector objective of the Project is to arrest the decline in wood harvesting
(see F re 3) and wood production levels, thereby supporting sector employment, limiting wood
imports, and expanding exports. Emphasis is placed on a "miimum package" of interventions to provide
these fast returns, supplemented by selected longer term interventions.
3.2           The medium-term objective of the Project is to improve forest resource management and
the economic value of the standing tree-stock. In addition, phased policy reforms for the sector would
contribute to the emergence of a market-based production system and introduce competitive pricing of
wood, wood products and services to the forestry sector.
3.3           Specifically the Project would:
(a)    support sector policy reforms;
(b)    arrest the decline in tiniber harvest, expanding anmnal production by about 1 million m3
ob of fuel- and pulp-wood from the present level of about 3.4 million m3 ob;
(c)   introduce improved forestry resource management;
(d)    reduce, and eventually eliminate, direct and indirect budget subsidies to both the forestry
and wood processing sectors;
(e)    promote the private sector in the forestry services and the wood industries;' and
(t)    begin the process of adjustment to the open market economy in MinFor's enterprises.
B. Project Description
3.4          The proposed Project components, summarized below, are:
Sector Policy Refonms
(a)   to increase the price to "first-takers"" for standing wood and harvested roundwood
(initially through real increases in the stumpage fee, and thereafter through open-market
price setting); and through this mechanism to increase the recovery of costs of current
and past investments in forestry by the national treasury;
28.   With EBRD proposing to support complemenary investments mi wood processing, and the privatization
of the BellUprom enterprises.
29.   A first-taker is that entity that is the first party in the ain of wood-product transfers that commences
with MinFor's decision to dispose of wood resouces (either as standing wood with the rights to harv)
or harvested round wood). A OfIrst-taker* could also be a MinPor's owned processing enterprise.



- 18 -
(b)   to reduce the budget-subsidy element in the financing of MinFor's production operations,
and in the consumer wood-products prices, with the allocation of all sumpage revenues
to MinFor, and restructuring MinFor as a net revenue generator for the national treasury
through stumpage revenues and wood-trading profits;
(c)   to support the establishment of the open market for wood and wood products, and
services to the forestry sector through MinFor roadside negotiation-markets and formal
wood auction and wholesale markets;
(d)   to promote the development of private sector services to forestry, particularly in contract
harvesting and transport;
(e)   to further liberalize Belarus' international trade (both exports and imports) in wood and
wood products; and
(I)   to conmnence, through staff training and new systems development, the restrucuing
process of the MinFor and its rayon-level enterprises for the evental rationalization and
privatization of operations not directly related to forest resource management and forest
regulation.
Improved Forest Productivity
(g)   to improve the sustainable management of the forestry resource through intensified
silviculture and the provision of expanded equipment capacity;
(h)   to provide spare parts and equipment rehabilitation to reverse the downward trend in
harvesting capacity due to old equipment;
(i)   to improve the supply of high quality, genetically selected planting materials, by
expanding and upgrading MinFor's forest seed processing and storage and nursery
facilities;
(j)   to support a pilot program for pruning, to develop high value "clear-wood" timber;
Forest Fire Protection
(k)   to provide adequate protection against forest fires, while maintaining a reasonable risk-
cost balance;
(I)   to ensure adequate and timely response to fires in the Chernobyl-contaminated zones to
prevent smoke plume dispersion of radionuclide contamination;



- 19-
Forest Ecology
(m)   to strengthen MinFor's regulatory and enforcement capacity, in the forests in general and
the sensitive areas in particular (e.g. wetiand forests) ensuring appropriate performance
and practices by workers, contractors and also the public users of forest resources (i.e
recreation, hunting and gathering);
(n)   to introduce revised ecological standards into MiuFor's resource management for both
the general forest stock and for forestry in sensitive ecological areas (e.g. wedands, peat
soils, etc.);
(o)   to reduce the ecological impact of mechanization during harvesting through the selection
of appropriate harvesting systems and improved training, regulation, and supervision of
harvesting contractors;
(p)   to monitor and manage specific forest-ecological problems, i.e. air pollution damage and
radionuclide contamiants of the forests and forest lands, forestry on wetlands and
drained wetlands;
(q)   to improve the monitoring and management of forest workers' exposure to radioactivity;
(r)   to improve the safety-monitoring, quality control and certification of wood harvested
from the Chernobyl-contaminated forests;
Technical Assstance and Institution Building
(s)   to promote local industry's capacity for fiutre mafacte of forestry equipment through
the provision of initial "seed" capital for the development and testing of a
prototypes;
(t)   to develop a Forestry Management Information System;
(u)   to upgrade forestry resource planning methodologies;
(v)   to develop a medium to long-term strategic plan for the forestry sector in general,
including specific plans for the Chernobyl-contaminated forests and the wetlands forest
resources;
(w)   to conduct an environmental assessment of current forestry activity and the impact of
future forestry strategy;
(x)   to improve human resource skills through expanded professional training and
improvements in formal forestry education, and to design and plan the changes desired
in higher education in forestry;
(y)   to address research and development requirements for pressing short-term problems, and
to plan for future R&D investment needs;



- 20-
(z)   to begin the institutional and structural adjustment process of MinFor and its oblast- and
rayon-enterprises for operations in an open market economy, and eventual privatization
of production operations; and
(aa) to plan and prepare future forestry Projects and investments.
C. Detalled Component Description
Sector Policy.30
3.5            During Project processing a sector economy refonn program (Annex 2) was designed
and discussed with MinFor, the Ministry of Finance (MinFin), and The Ministry of the Economy
(MinEcon). At Negotiatons this program was confirmed by GoB, and agreement was reached that, by
May 1, 1995, an implementation timetable for these reforms will be established.
3.6          The proposed reforms represent a major first step in implementing, at the forestry-sector
level, the economic reform program agreed by GoB, the IMF and the Bank under the adjustment
programs. The elements of the sector reform program are:
(a)    macro-policy reforms established under the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF), and the Bank's Rehiliaton Loan, and now applied to the specific case of the
forestry sector:
(i)   reduction of the budget-subsidy element in the financing of MinFor's production
operations, and in the consumer wood-products prices, by signifLint real
increases in the stumpage fees and introducing free market sales of forest
product; allocation of all stumpage and sales revenues to MinFor;
(ii)   restructuring the relationship between MinFin and MinFor to reflect the profit
generating potential of MinFor's concessionaire rights over national assets, and
therefore to introduce corporate governance and accountability in MinFor's
management, such that profits so generated are available to the national treasury
either for re-investment in forestry or investment in other national priorities;
(iii)  removal of all export and import licensing, export taxation on goods not under
administered prices, and other restrictions on wood and wood products
international trade;
(iv)   domestic wood and wood products market liberalization through:
-     removal of the State order system and product allocation for wood and
wood products, except for those products covered under bi-lateral trade
agreements, and product required for GoB's own use (para. 3.15);
-     removal of all price and profit controls;
30.    There are no costs associated with this Project component: implemtation is within the capacity of current
GoB staff.



- 21 -
(b)   sector-spedfic policy reforms, mostly within MinFor operations:
(i)   increasing competitive private sector contractual services to MinFor (initially in
harvesting and wood transport), remove Bellesprom's virtual monopoly
rationalizing the size and scope of its associated enterprises, and reduce the level
of MinFor force-account activities in forestry operations;
(ii)   establishing competitive markets for wood through the introduction of roundwood
(i.e cut wood) markets at roadside, and the phased introduction of a formal wood
marketing facility.
3.7          The reform measures imply a significant change in the relationship between MinFor,
MinFor's rayon-level enterprises, and Bellesprom. This will lay the basis for (i) establishing roadside
markets (operated by MinFor), (ii) the introduction of MbFor's proposed national and regional wood
market facilities (para. 3.16), and (iii) the entry of new entrepreneurs into wood processing, harvesting
contractors and wood transport companies.
3.8          To date, MinFor has allocated annually to Bellesprom all the mature timber stands for
clearcut harvest and processing. These reforms imply that standing timber, in the future, will be
harvested for MinFor's account by harvesting contractors, and that the cut wood will then be sold on the
open market to processors. Therefore, in the future, both Belesprom and MinFor's rayon-level
enterprises can no longer assume (i) assured rights to harvesting areas, or (ii) assured supplies of low cost
wood. They will be competing both with each other, and with newly emerging private sector wood
harvesters and processors, for harvesting contracts and wood supplies.
3.9          The Memorandmn of Economic Reform Policies presented by GoB to the Bank in
conjunction with the Rehabilitaton Loan provides a timetable for the general reforms critical to this
project (para. 3.6(a)). A number of these reforms were to have been fully implemented by the end of
1993 (Box 6). Clarifications were received at Negotiations that the reforms relevant to the forestry and
wood industry sectors are being implemented, albeit more gradually than originally planned, and in a
manner appropriate for the forestry sector and the wood industries.
3.10         The pace of the introduction and effectiveness of these proposed sectoral policy reforms
will depend on the progress of the reforms agreed under the STF and Rehabilitation Loan, and the
recently signed Monetary Union Accord with Russia. The forestry sector reforms require that the broad-
scale general economic reform agreements with the IMF and the Bank now be translated, through in-
depth restructuring and policy implementation, into a series of both general and sector-specific reforms
in regulations and procedures (see Concordance - Annex 2). Agreements were reached at Negotiations
on a number of complementary reforms critical to the success of this Project, for implementation during
the Project (para. 3.12 et seq.).
3.11         The IMF and the Bank have recognized that GoB is moving cautiously along the agreed
path of reform. For this reason, forestry sector-specific reforms can be expected to lag behind
macroeconomic reform, deregulation and restructuring, by at least six months to a year. Consequently,
agreement was reached at Negotiations for annual updating, by May 1 of each year, of the sector policy
reform implementation timetable for the following twelve monfts (based on the results of the previously
implemented reform measures), in coordination with and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.



- 22 -
GoB's Scheduled
Implementation
GoB's Proposed Reforms                                           Date
Prce Liberaization and Subsidies:
Elimination of cross-subsidies on fuel-wood                      end 1993
Removal of all price and profit restrictions except for those on
"monopolistic producers," and reduction of list of "monopolistic
producers" by 50% *                                              end 1993
Elimination of retailers' profit margins controls                end 1993
Elimination of State Order system, except for specific goods
committed under bi-laa trade agreements, and for GoB's own       end 1993
requirements
Intenational Trade Liberaization:
Removal of export quotas and export taxes, except for those goods  end 1993
whose prices are administered.
(*)    Bnchmark under BMP STF program
Box 6: Genea  Economic Reforms Rdevant to Forestry and Wood Industry
Source: Belarus Rehabiltaion Loan (Report P46147-BY)
3.12         Internatonal Trade lberalzation. To ensure the effectiveness of GoB's intended
international trade reforms for wood and wood products, agreement was reached at Negotiations that, by
December 31, 1994, GoB would issue relevant decrees and regulations to further facilitate the
liberalization of international trade in wood and wood products in a manner agreed between GoB and the
Bank. In addition, at Negotiations GoB recognized the necessity to deepen the implemention of the
liberalization of international trade reforms through facilitation measures such as the simplification of
trade and trade finance documentation. GoB pledged its cooperation with the Bank in studying these
questions during the preparation of the proposed Private Enterprise Development Loan, and agreed to
consider simplification measures once the results of this study have been reviewed.
3.13         Domestic Market libe on. The proposed liberalization of both the domestic
market (paras. 3.6(a)(iv) and 3.6(b)(ii)) the international trade for wood (paras. 3.6(a)(iii) and 3.12) will
give direct access to local timber markets to both new local buyers and foreign buyers, thereby increasing
price competition and internationalizing the price of wood. This will permit MinFor, and consequently
the national treasury, to capture the full economic value of the nation's timber, rather than only the
arificially low value now established through the stumpage fees.



- 23 -
3.14         At Negotiations GoB assured the Bank that access to the domestic market by non-residents
was not in any way restricted and that such buyers did not face discriminatory taxation. GoB also assured
the Bank that such non-resident buyers are free to export their purchasers, provided they have satisfied
the foreign exchange control requirements. However, to ensure this policy impact GoB satisfied the
Bank, as a condition for Board presentation, on the implementation status of deregulation and decontrol
of wood and wood product prices, as planned under the Rehabilitation Loan (Box 6).
3.15         The wood sector distribution of products was dominated by the allocation process under
the State Order system. Under the proposed program presented by GoB under the RehabDiltation Loan
this system was to have been abolished by the end of 1993, except for products conmiitted under bi-lateral
trade agreements, and that product for "the Government's own needs." Agreement was reached at
Negotiations that by Decetnber 31, 1994, relevant decrees and regulations, agreed between GoB and the
Bank, would be issued by GoB for the further liberalization of the domestic wood market in wood and
wood products, except for procurement of such products required under the State Order system. GoB
reconfirmed at Negotiations that the application of the new State Procurement System (as agreed under
the Rehabilitation Loa) would result in wood and wood product procurement by the State at market
prices.
3.16         Formal Wood Markets. MinFor has proposed a "trading facility" for wood, wood
products and related services. MinFor proposes to utilize this market for open bidding for harvest
contracts, sales of unharvested mature wood stands, and sales of roundwood and wood products.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the market facility would be established before the end of
1994, under Articles of Association, regulations and operating policies agreed between GoB and the Bank.
3.17         GoB taxes transactions on "exchanges" (i.e. Stock or Commodity). This may be
inconsistent with a liberalized domestic trade regime. An understanding was reached at Negotiations that
GoB would find an appropriate legal structure for the "market facility" under which such exchange taxes
would not be applicable.
3.18         The adoption of the open market for standing wood and roundwood31 is based on the
State's ownership of the nation's wood resources and the State's rights of disposal at the best possible
price for the benefit of the national treasury. MinFor acts in this regard as the agent of the State.
However, in the past, either for administrative convenience, or as a misreading of the actual legal
position, local authorities have successfully claimed extractive royalty payments (the stumpage fee) from
their oblast's and rayon's mature wood harvests. This was used both by the USSR government and the
present government as a mechanism for the funding of local authorities. The new Forest Law, presently
before the Parliament, establishes the State's sole right to the nation's wood resources. An understanding
was reached at Negotiations that, after passage of this law, GoB will promulgate enabling regulations to
establish (i) MinFor as its agent for the market disposition of the State's wood resources under MinFor's
management, and (ii) the State's full rights of use of all funds so generated.
3.19         Stumpage and Royalties. Agreement was reached at Nejotiations on the establishment,
by October 31, 1994, of a stuwpage and royalty policy agreed between GoB and the Bank, for
implementation beginning Jamnary 1, 1995. The Bank confirmed that it considered a royalty fee of
31.   Placed on the market by MinFor.



- 24 -
between 2 and 5 % of gross annual MinFor wood sale revenues to be a reasonable level, that the royalty
fees should be payable to the national treasury only at the point of the first transfer of ownership fromn
MinFor, and that for those wood products on which a royalty fee is charged, no stumpage is payable and
visa versa.
3.20         Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the stunpage and royalty policy should not
affect direct budgetary support for selected MinFor's functions. Therefore, certain annual MinFor
costs32 were not expected to be recovered from the stumpage fee, and would continue to be funded from
the national budget. The Bank confirmed that the target theoretical total stumpage revenue would be that
amount required to fully recover the annual operating costs of MinFor's commercial silviculture
operations, if recovered from the theoretical annual total harvest.
3.21         Private Sector Development. GoB agreed at Negotiations to prepare by December 31,
1994, the simplification of requirements, regulations and practices for issuing business licenses for
forestry and wood industry enterprises and contractors.
3.22         Agreement was reached at Negotiations that a program and timetable, acceptable to the
Bank, would be presented by December 31, 1994, for the pre-privatization assistance by relevant GoB
agencies for the commercialization and eventual privatization of the wood processing sector (i.e.,
including those wood industries now under the Bellesprom association). This would include the
determination by GoB of the applicability of the proposed voucher system to the these enterprises, and
the application of GoB's new corporate governance standards to these enterprises.
3.23         Impact on MhiFor. Aside from the policy dialogue that the preparation and appraisal
of this Project has afforded, (and which will continue through supervision of Project implementation),
the Project would assist in the implementation of these sector reforms through TA (paras. 3.39, 3.48,
3.37 and 3.50) to MinFor for staff training, management of contracted harvesting, and for establishing
roadside wood markets and the formal wood marketing facility. To effectively implement these agreed
reforms, MinFor staff would also require training in market-based business practices (e.g. new
accounting and cost-accounting systems).
Improved Forest Productivity
3.24         Intensive Silviculture (US$16.1 million total: US$9.5 million operating costs, US$6.6
million harvesting machinery and equipment). The Belarus forests were planted at high sapling densities
(13,000/ha), in accordance with then accepted USSR practices. Inadequate financial resources for early
year forestry maintenance, in conjunction with a past philosophy regarding forestry early-years
maintenance, has now resulted in standing timber with high densities of undersized trees, especially in
the 20 to 40 year age class. The intensive silviculture practices being introduced under this project would
concentrate on maintenance activities in this age class - thinning of the stands from about 6,300
32.   Recovery of all operating and investment costs for maintenance, harvesting and replanting of commercial
timber stands would be expected. Costs not to be recovered, or only partially recovered, would be those
legitimate "national" expenditures such as emergency and disaster expenditures (fires, floods, Chernobyl
amelioration, etc.), afforestation of new lands, conservation and protection, etc.



- 25 -
stems/ha at age 20 to about 1,450 stems/ha by age 40 - to provide space and light for vigorous growth
of the remaining trees.
3.25         The Project would finance a portion of the local cose of the incremental intensive
thinning program on 230,000 ha over a three year implementation period (1995 to 1997). The annual
program corresponds to about an average one-third increase over the current level of the annual thinning
program (220,000 ha per anum) of MinFor. The project-supported annual program is about 45% of the
intensive thinning that ahould, ideally, be conducted amually in the age 21- to 40-year class. This
program would result in an average additional annual production of about 1.2 million m3 ob of pulpwood
and smallwood, over 1993 levels, for industrial processing and fuelwood, for a total over the three year
period of about 3.5 million m3 ob.
3.26         The thinning program would be governed by new silviculture m_aitenance and
environment protection standards, that have been agreed upon between MioFor and the Bank. The
incremental equipment necessary for the intensification of silviculture would include: chain saws, adapted
light agricultural tractors, trailers with hydraulic cranes, field debarkers, modifications to trucks, worker
safety equipment and spare parts. The introduction of this mechanization system would change the
current heavy-machinery based mechanization system to a more flexible, labor intensive system with
lower unit costs.
3.27         A Project sub-component, the Pflot Prnming Program (US$70,000), would finance a
pilot/demonstration program of 5,000 ha of young forest (20 years old), and 5,000 ha of 40 year-old
forests, with the intention of testing the managerial and financial feasibility of producing knot-free
"clearboard" pine logs. This product has high market value in comparison with regular knotted pine
boards.
3.28         Harvest Mechanization Spare Parts (US$3.6 million) Output from the forestry sector
has been declining, due to lower domestic demand. reduced export opportunities within the FSU, and the
declining operative state of the harvest machinery pool. The average age of MinFor's machinery pool
was assessed by the Project appraisal mission to be seven years. Consequently, without immediate
investments n spare parts, machinery capacity would further decline, and forestry output would fall
below present demand levels. The Project would support investment in spare parts and machinery
refurbishing to reverse this trend. This investment would prolong the life of existing machinery for about
four years, at which point new investments would have to be made to replace the machinery pool with
the new light mechanization system introduced in the intensified silviculture component (para. 3.26).
3.29         MinFor will be continuing, with GoB funds, to harvest timber in the Chernobyl-
contaminated forests, but only in the lower-levels of contamination (i.e. in the < 15 Ci/lkm2 zones),
determined to be both safe for forest workers and that the resulting products would be safe for end-
users.33 Debarking and delimbing in the forest will prevent the transport of conUminated wastes to the
saw-mills. The Project therefore would finance necessary additional capacity in mobile debarkers and
33.   The Environment Assessment of the Chemobyl-effected forests (AECL Rearch, 1993 - Annex 1) has
confirmed the adequacy of GoB's radiation protection standards and controls for workers and for products,
and that they meet inteational requiremes. The EA suggests a range of stengteing measures (paras.
3.34 and 3.73).



- 26 -
wood-chippers (US$0.25 million), to reduce the transfer of contamnation into the sawmills and other
related activities (para. 3.34).
3.30         Seed Proc_sing and Storage Facilities (US$3.9 million). Most of the Belarus replanted
forests are from unselected seeds. MinFor has proposed an expanded progtam to upgrade the genetic
quality of replanted areas (i.e those not naturally regenerated). The Project would support the
establishment of 8 mt/pa capacity seed processing and storage facilities near Minsk, including two
regional satellites in the North and South-West, near the towns of Glubokoe and Gomel respectively.
3.31         The facilities would be used to process and store seed from selected species produced in
the existing seed orchards (13,000 ha), and selected seeds purchased from international suppliers. Belarus
supplies international markets, particularly with spruce seed (Picea excelsa), and these facilities would
enhance its seed quality for these markets. The Gomel satellite would also serve as the national
repository for the national silviculture gene-bank. A modern technology containerized seedling mursery
at the Minsk facility would be financed. This would be of semi-pilot size to gain experience for the
future modernization of the regional nurseries. This component will also provide TA to train staff in seed
processing and seedling production, and to plan the future superior stock seed tree stands.
Environment-related Components
3.32         Fire Protection (US$6.0 million). An improved fire protection program has been
developed which address the requiremnents for the radionuclide contaminated zones and addresses the
technological and management improvements in fire protection service nationwide. Investments include
mproved fire fighting equipment (fire engine refurbishing and refitting, new pumps, hoses, hand-tools
and water tanks for aerial fire-fighting); improved communications network; fire-fighter's protective
clothing against smoke and radioactivity, and personal radionuclide dosimeters for the fire-fighters.' Fire
management would be improved through the introduction of fire-information and forecasting systems,
integration with meteorological data, and manpower training.
3.33         Air pollution Monitoring (US$1.5 million).35 Belarus needs to improve the scientific
basis of forest air pollution monitoring so as to better diagnose the causes of defoliation, to prepare and
implement remedial actions for local source emissions, and to document evidence of transboundary air
pollution. Six field-installed "Forest Climate Centers" and a central laboratory are to be provided under
this Project. These are complementary to the ICP-Porest system (para. 2.22 footnote), and also to the
general Belanus air pollution monitoring system now being designed and implemented by MinNat. These
climate centers sample and monitor air, soil, water and foliage: the central laboratory would provide
sample analyses and maintain the database. TA for staff training would also be provided.
3.34         Radiation Monitonng Systems; Workers' and Public Health; Product Safety and
Quality Control (US$0.5 million). MinFor will be continuing, with its own financing, the harvesting
34.   MinFor fire-fighters' improved monitoring for health-related aspects of radionuclide exposure will be
covered under the Project's radionuclide component (para. 3.34).
35.   See Ecological Monitoring of the Forests in Belarus: Results of a Project Evaluation Mision, Bavaran
State Institute for Forestry and Forest Economy, Germany (1993) (Annex 1).



- 27 -
of mature timber, and the maintenance (through thinning programs) of young stands in the Chernobyl-
contminated zones of less than 15 Ci/km2. The Environmental Assessment conducted for the Project
(para. 3.73 and Annem 1) detennined that it would be appropriate to assist MinFor in the area of worker
safety and health, and product safety. This component would finance equipment and system development
to enhance MiNFor's existing forestry and wood processing workers' radiation-health monitoring system
in the Gomel and Mogliev obtasts. GoB's current standards and procedures ensure that Belarus' wood
products do not constitute a public health hazard. To tackle the public's misperception of the dangers
from the contamination of Belarus' wood products, the component will also assist in strengthening the
radioactive contamination monitoring and quality control of wood products through an international audit
and certification of Belarus wood output. This is intended to establish and build the international public's
confidence in the safety of Belarus' wood products.
3.35         Wetlands Forestry Monitoring, Protecion and Inventory (US$0.5 million). MInFor
conducts both commercial and protective forestry on reclaimed drained wetlands, in all the southern
oblast primarily in the Pripyat River Basin (Box 3 and Map 1). These forests are estimated to constitute
about 270,000 ha, 20% of all Belarus forest reserves. MinFor has recognized the necessity to change
harvesting practices, and strengthen planning, regulatory and monitoring functions of both MinFor and
MnNat, in the protected wetlands areas. This view is also reflected in the Environmental Review of the
forested wetlands (para. 3.70, and Annexes 1 and 7), which has also reconunended the establishment of
conservation areas, and the expansion of the ongoing inventory of the flora and fauna species of the
international important wetlands36 to include the areas of national importance. The completion of this
plan, fnanced under the project, will provide the monitoring program for the wetlands, their conservation
and protection, as well as regulations for forestry activities on wetlands a drained wetlands.
3.36         This component will therefore assist:
(a)   the completion of the species inventory on the wetlands of international importance and
its expansion to include the wetlands of national inportance and on the reclaimed
wetlands;
(b)    analysis of this data and the establishment of this database on a computerized geographic
information system;.
(c)   identification of wetlands areas of national importance for conservation, and preparatory
stdies for these conservation areas;
36.   This is a combined effort the Belams Academy of Sciences and the Intemational Waterfowl and Wetands
Research Bureau (IWRB), under the provisions of the UN's Convention on Wetlwds of Intenatonal
Imporance, Especday Wateifowl Habitats (the 'RAMSAR Convention). IWRB is an intemational NGO
specializing in wetlands, which has been charged by the UN with oversight and implementation of the
RAMSAR Convention.
37.   Utilizing the FMIS system, or the geographic information system (GIS) being provided under the GEF
Biodiversity Project (see footnote 15), and in coordination with the GIS system being provided to GoB's
Mapping Agency under Canadian assistance.



- 28 -
(d)    establish the wetlands and drained wetlands monitoring system to follow the impact of
water and soil pollutants, the impact of forest activities, and the inmpact of the improved
management of these lands;
(e)    determination of ecological impact of forestry activities on the wetlands and reclaimed
wetlands;
(f)    establishnent of a wetlands and drained wetlands management planning system;
(g)    preparatory studies for disrupted wetlands (i.e. mined-out peat areas) for their
rehabilitation or economic utilization; and
(h)   training in forestry on wetlands and drained wetlands, establishment of regulations for
protection these lands protection and conservation, and training in enforcement
("wardening").
Tecnical Assistance and Institution Building
3.37         Forestry Strategic Plan (FSP) (US$2.0 million). To provide an adequate basis for the
future development of, and investment in, the forestry sector and wood industry, under the Project
support would be given for a Forestry Strategic Plan (FSP). There is a long list of strategic issues that
require careful, in-depth analysis that only such a master plan exercise can provide. This work would
be done with the assistance of international consultants. MinFor has determined that the FSP team would
initially address the short-term planning requirements for Project implementation activities. After he
initial planning is completed, the FSP team would then turn to the questions of medium-term sector
prospects (including market assessments of future opportunities for Belarus' wood and wood product),
resource management alternatives, the ecological assessments of proposed changes in forestry
management, research priorities, manpower planning, regulatory requirements, the future organization
structure of MinFor, pre-privatization work for the rayon-level enterprises, etc.
3.38         The Bank has indicated to GoB its interest, in principle, to follow this Project with a
second sector investment of wider scope based on progress made dunng the first Project. The Project
would, therefore, provide financing for project identification and preparation, based upon the national
forestry strategy. This project preparation would require TA to MinFor, which will be provided by the
FSP team.
3.39         Forestry Management Information Systm (FMIS) (US$2.6 million). Bedgosles (para.
2.36(a)) is responsible for the ten-year forest inventory, and the planning of annual forestry activity
(thinning and clear-cut) by stand. The Project would support the completion of the FMIS on the basis
of the system developed in a small-scale version and which has being substantially completed by Belgosl
with a local expert team from Kirov and the Minsk University Software Laboratory. The appraisal team
has judged this system as providing features that no commercial package has, and that it would be more
cost effective to expand and compete this system than to adapt a commercially available package. The
Project would also support the transfer of all forestry inventory data to a new FMIS on efficient, modern
personal computers. Further, it would permit the transfer of computer-based information to individual
enterprises, for the use of the oblast- and rayon-level staff.



- 29 -
3.40         Financing will be provided for computer hardware and peripherals (US$0.75 million) and
forestry inventory survey equipment (US$0.46 million); purchase of comunercial software (US$120,000);
and local expertise to expand and complete the development of software, with limited international
advisory services to provide the overall systems design and hardware specifications, and to define the
additional FMIS features (US$0.8 million); and for training of MinFor and other staff in the use of the
systems (US$0.5 million). The Project-funded computers and software would be available to MinFor and
to other major users such as Kirov, Gomel and the Belarus Academy of Sciences for the wetlands
inventory and monitoring system.
3.41         Forestry Research and Developmeut (US$3.1 million). Through the FSP (para. 3.37),
a review of research priorities and the development of a ten year research plan supportive of the national
forestry strategy would be undertaken. The FSP would identify medium- and long-term priorities for the
future forestry research program, and thus tb ! ationale for future investments in Gomel and Kirov. This
should be available within 18 to 24 months after commencement of the Project.
3.42         In the interim, critical priority research needs to be supported, including: the progress
and potential for amelioration of forest radionuclide contamination; the alternative forest management
systems under intensive and extensive maintenance; genetic tree selection, seed selection, quality
assurance, and storage.
3.43         Gomel, under thejurisdiction of the Belarus Academy of Sciences, is the one of two local
resources used by MinFor3 for scientific investigations directly related to forest management, for both
the short and medium term. Since the breakup of the FSU forest research, along with all other R&D,
has been significantly reduced through under-funding of all the Academy of Sciences activities. To obtain
the required research for its operations, MiuFor now needs to contract for research on an annual basis
for its specific requirements. The project would support the MinFor contract research programs at a
mber of institutions, including Gomel, Kirov and, for example, the state forestry research institutes
in Moscow and St. Petersburg.
3.44         Foresty Education and Manpower Planning (US$0.7 million). Training curricula and
programs for future foresters, and the retraining of present professionals, need revision to bring practices
up to date with European standards for temperate zone forests, and to reflect the new ecology-based
approaches to sustainable forestry management, biodiversity and forestry conservation. Future forestry
education will also need to prepare professional and technical staff to manage and develop the national
forests and wood industries within the constraints and opportunities of an open market economy. This
will require major revisions and expansion of the curriculum at Kirov, the Polodsk Polytechnicum, and
the Forestry School at Borissov. Curriculum revisions, expansions and additions are proposed for the
courses in Forest Management, Forest Biology and Biodiversity, Conservation Biology and Wildlife
Management, Forestry Economics, and Forest Industries Management are proposed.
3.45         The Project would support Kirov, the Polodsk Polytechnicum, and the Forestry School
at Borissov staffs in their efforts to redesign teaching programs, and revise the curricula. The Project
would also support related staff retrai-' 'i, through the funding of six weeks to three month educational
visits for faculty to institutions in wez tn and eastern Europe, as well as for curriculum consultation
38.   The second source being contract research to individual faculty members of Kirov.



- 30-
exchanges, Twinning arrangements with superior forestry higher education institutions are now being
sought by Kirov. This would deepen the professional content of the education refiorm and planning
exercise. An information access program is planned for Kirov, including foreign language training (para.
3.50). The Project would also fund minimat additional teaching and laboratory equipment.
3.46         It will be necessary to establish a medium-term Forestry Education Strategic Plan (to
complement the overall FSP). This would be the task of the team of the senior faculty from Kirov, the
Polodsk Polytechnicum, and the Forestry School at Borissov with some international TA funded under
the Project. For this plan, a forestry manpower demand forecast would be undertaken with the
collaboration of the consultants under the FSP.
3.47         Prototype Development and Testing (US$4.0 million). Concern has been expressed by
GoB that the use of loan proceeds only for imported forestry equipment would not support local
manufacturing, particularly for the conversion from military to civilian products. The Project therefore
would establish a Prototype Fund, under the administration of MinFor, to participate with local
industries in prototype development and testing for forestry and related equipment that is internationally
competitive. Belarus has major metalworking industries and in the past was one of the primary sources
of tractors in the FSU. While these products do not fully meet internationally acceptable standards, there
are the necessary design and manufacturing skills within Kirov and the local metal industries. MinFor
can provide the technical performance standards (as can the ICB bidding documents). Some local
manufacturing partners have already been identified by MinFor. Consideration is also being given by
various industries to entering joint ventures or licensed manufacturing agreements for specific machinery
with foreign partners. The Prototype Fund could also participate with such partnerships to support the
design and tesding of their first products manufactured under license. To be eligible for support from the
Prototype Fund each development partnership would be required to provide matching funds for expenses
and equipment. Therefore the Prototype Fund would be established witi US$2.0 million capitalization
funded from this loan.
3.48         Training (US$1.0 million). This component would include financing for training for:
(a) private sector harvesting contractors in both the technology of harvesting, the required compliance
standards, and in small business management; (b) MinFor staff in new harvesting methods and standards;
(c) Minfor staff in preparation for privatization of MinFor's enterprises and their potential role as owners
of these enterprises; and (d) MinFor staff in their altered future role primarily as forestry resource
managers and regulators with emphasis on management training; and (e) the training for an improved
regulatory role (regulatory policy, oversight and enforcement) and for MinFor and MinNat staff at the
administrative and field levels.
3.49         Project Implementation Unit (US$0.6 million). TA will be financed for procurement
consultancy and PIU management systems advice. The size and complexity of the procurement, the
administration of Project funds, and the small size of the MinFor's headquarter's staff requires that TA,
office equipment and vehicles, be provided to the PIU, and to train MinFor's counterpart staff in the
PIU. The objective of this TA is to build local institutional capacity for successful Project implementation
and to provide a strengthened institutional basis within MinFor for a follow-up Project.
3.50         Other Technical Assitance (US$0.5 million) would be provided for international
advisory services for specialized topics in, for example, the introduction of an adequate cost accounting



- 31 -
system; the computerization of MinFor's rayon-level accounts; efficiency studies of the enterprises pre-
privatization; Project auditing; advice on the pending forestry legislation; and foreign language training
for MinFor, Gomel and Kirov Staff. Specific topics would be agreed annually during Project
implementation.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.51         The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated at US$54.7 million, of which about
77% is foreign exchange. Estimated Project costs are presented in Table 1 (detailed Project costs are
given in Annex 4).
3.52         Base costs have been estimated using October 1993 prices at the then prevailing exchange
rate of Rb3500/US$. Local costs were adjusted to reflect the expected impact of future adjustments to
energy price to international price equivalency.
Table 1. Project Cost Estimate*
Rubles (bihions**        US$ (millions)     %Base       %
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Cost   Foreign
Production Support:
Intensive Silviculture   43.7    150.2   57.6    3.6    12.6   16.1    34%     78%
Spare Parts    6.0    36.6   10.7    0.5       3.1    3.6      8%      86%
Seed Facilities  3.6    43.7   12.7    0.3       3.6    3.9      8%      92%
Environmental Support    13.2    88.7   44.2    1.1      7.4    8.5    18%       87%
Technical Assistance &                                   9.4
Institutional Building  63.9    112.3   47.3    5.3            14.7    31%       64%
Total Base Costs      130.3   431.4  172.4   10.9    36.0   46.8    100%         77%
Cotingences:
Physical   13.0    43.1   17.2    1.1       3.6    4.7    10%       77%
Price    10.1    28.1   11.3    0.8       2.3    3.2      7%      74%
Total Costs           153.4   502.7  656.1   12.8    41.9   54.7    117%         77%
(*)    column and row totals may not add precisely due to rounding
(**)   at Rbl2,000 = US$1
3.53         Physical contingencies of ten percent have been provided. Price contingencies, over the
expected implementation period 1994 to 1998, correspond to projections of the Manufacturer's Unit Value



- 32 -
(MUV) index,39 and have been applied to internationally sourced items. For local costs a constant
purchasing parity exchange rate has been assuned. Local price contingencies have therefore also been
calculated on the basis of the MUV index.
3.54         Project Financing. A loan of US$41.9 mnillion would be provided by the Bank to finance
100% of foreign exchange, or 77% funding of the total project cost (Table 2). As GoB currently faces
severe budgetary constraints resulting from transition, the project proposes to fund the equivalent foreign
expenditurese for incremental intensive silviculture operating costs, currently 60% of total silviculture
direct operating cost. Most of the GoB funding of local costs will come from increased stumpage fees
and from incremental revenues to MinFor from market sales of wood.
Table 2. Financing Plan* (US$ mil.)
Local Cost        Foreign             Total
US$       %      US$        %     US$         %
IBRD                                     41.9    100%      41.9     77%
GoB                    10.8    84%                         10.8     20%
Indust                  2.0    16%                          2.0      3%
TOTAL                  12.8   100%       41.9   100%       54.7    100%
Annual Financing 
Calendar Year      f  1994    1995    1996    1997   1978    Total
IBRD**                  6.6    16.8    12.9        4.9    0.8      41.9
GoB                     0.9      3.2      3.3      2.8    0.6      10.8
Indust                           1.0      1.0                      2.0
TOTAL                   7.5    21.0    17.1        7.7    1.3      54.7
(*)    column and row totals may not add precisely due to rounding
(**)   annual financing represents commitments and not actual Loan disbursements (Annex 8)
(')   'Prototype Fund counterpart funding by local and joint-venture industrial partners
39.   0.5% in 1993, 3.4% in 1994, 2.9% in 1995, 3.0% in 1996, and 2.7% in 1997 & 1998 (October 1993
projections).
40.   This is the implicit foreign exchange component of expenditures on fuel, lubricants and spare parts.



- 33 -
3.55         An understanding was reached at Negotiations that import duties and all other taxes on
all project imports and all other taxes due to GoB from the expenditures of the project, be made avaihble
to MinFor, and budgeted by MinFin, in addition to MinFor's normal annual budget, and that contcs
with foreign nationals and foreign legal persons where local taxes on income are to be paid to GoB, that
MinFor will be provided with the local currency by MinFin for the payment of these taxes.
E. Procurement"
3.56         During Negotiations assurances were obtained from MinFor that it would apply
procurement procedures which are consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for procurement of goods and
consultant's services and that progress reports prepared by the PIU would include monitoring of the
procurement process of the various aggregate amounts and ceilings. Procurement is summarized in
Table 3 below.
Table 3. Project Procurment' (US$ million)
Item                      ICB      All Other     NBF        Total
Civil Works                 2.6                     0.4        3.0
,____ _  (2.6)               (0.0)      (2.6)
Equipment & Materials      14.9         3.02        0.6       18.5
___________________        (14.9)       (3.0)       (0.0)     (17.9)
Technical Assistance                    5.33        1.5        6.8
_________       (5.3)       (0.0)      (5.3)
Trining                                 2.9                    2.9
.________       (2.9)                  (2.9)
litensive Silviculture                 11.94                  11.9
(7.2)                 (7.2)
Special Services                        6.0o        5.6       11.6
(6.0)      (0.0)      (6.0)
Totl                       17.5        29.1         8.1       54.7
(17.5)     (24.5)       (0.0)     (41.9)
( )-=loan financed  NBF = not Bank financed
1.    column and row totals may not add precisely due to rounding
2.    LIB = US$1.7 million, IS = US$0.3 milion, LS & DC = US$1.0 milion
3.    according to Bank guidelines
4.    according to procedures defined by the Bank
41.   Annex 11 provides the details of the Procrment pacages



- 34 -
3.57         Procurement would be undertaken in the following manner:4
(a)     Machinery and Equipment (US$17.5 million). To the extent possible, all machinery
and equipment (each contract above US$200,000) would be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, with the exception of some items as discssed
below. To the extent practicable, invitations for bids would be grouped in sizeable bid
packages to enhance competition and benefit from economies of scale in bid prices.
Domestic preference would be applicable for locally manufactred goods (including those
manufactured under license) provided that local value added equals or exceeds 20% of
the manufacturing process and meets other requirements under Appendix 2 of the Bank's
Guidelines: Procuremet under IBR- Loans and MDA Credits (May 1992), using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods. Equipme procured through ICB would
account for about 80% percent of equipment purchases. Procement of the rem
20% percent of the equipment value would be in packages suitable for procedures other
than ICB. The exceptions to ICB procurement, including all componens with physical
and price contingencies, would be as follows:
(i)    Limited Interntonal Bidding (LIB) (US$1.7 million).  Proment of
specialized equipment for the following activities would follow LIB procedure
in agreement with the Bank: seed processing, seed storage and conanerized
seedling nurseries, specialized air pollution monitoring and analysis equipment,
laboratory equipment, and other goods which have a limited number of qualified
suppliers, and for related parts and supplies.
{ii)   Iternational Shopping (IS) (US$0.3 million). IS procedures would be used for
small amounts of equipment and materals (each contract below US$200,000)
where the costs of ICB or LIB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages.
Contracts would be awarded under IS procedures, based on the Bank's
procurement guidelines and accepted practices. At least three quotations would
have to be obtained from three countries.
(iii)   Local Shopping (LS) (US$0.6 million). Sundry items, not exceedig US$50,000
per package, would be procured through local shopping following procedures
acceptable to the Bank by comparing prices obtained from ftree differet
suppliers.
(iv)   Direct Contrang (DC) for laboratory equipment and computer software where
standardization with existing equipment and systems is essential, or where there
is only a single acceptable source of stvpply.
42.   Amoints in each categozy shown with physical and price cotngeies.



- 35 -
(b)    Techical Ass       (US$5.3 million).4 Selection of consultants would be under the
Bank's guidelines: Use of Cons dtants. For TA packages exceeding US$100,000,
qualified short-listed firms (agreed with the Bank) would be invited to submit sealed
proposals and bids on the basis of Terms of Reference agreed in advance with the Bank.
Contracts over US$100,000 for individual firms and US$50,000 for individual experts
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For the FMIS, the Software Laboratory
of the University of Minsk would be fumded (US$0.7 million) to expand the system it has
adequately developed under a previous contract with MinFor (para. 3.39).
(c)    Training (US$2.9 million). Because of the specialized nature of training, individual
consultants will be hired to train local trainers (US$0.25 million). Training to strengthen
institutional capacity in local operations will be funded according to the program and
budget in agreement with the Bank.
(d)   Intensive Silviculture (US$11.9 million)". The intensive silvicultural maintenance of
existing forests will be carried out largely directly by MinFor through its district level
enterprises. Loan proceeds (at approximately 60% of silviculture direct operating costs)
would be disbursed on the basis of established and audited unit costs, a costed amual
work program approved annually in advance by the Bank, and certified physical
performance, all subject to annual performance and cost audit (para. 3.64).
(e)    Special Services (US$6.0 million): Gomel, Kirov, the Belarus Academy of Sciences (in
conjunction with IWRB36 for the wetlands activities), and other state technical institutes
of competence, of MinFor's choosing, will provide contract technical services on the
basis of anmual plans, with budgets approved in advance by the PIU and the Bank. These
budgets will be revised quarterly to take account of inflation. The Prototype Fund's
capitalization (US$2 million) is included in this disbursement category.
(f)    Civfl Works (US$2.6 million). One contract for the construction of the Seed facilities
would be awarded under the Bank's ICB procedures. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for small works will be used. The Civil Works Program will be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's prequalification guidelines.
3.58         The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's procurement
procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training using TA for Project administration provided
under this Project (para. 3.49), and through the use of standard bidding documents. The provision of
international TA for the PIU should ensure adequate administration of procurement. These procurement
advisors' appointed is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
43.   Consultants for Technical Assistance will be selected from firms under short-list inional competition
(US$3.8 million), by prudent selection for specialized short-term assignments of individual experts (US$0.7
million) and individual firms (US$0.8 million) (Annex 11).
44.   Harvesng equipment for the intsified silviculture - US$6.6 million - included under ICB.



- 36 -
3.59         Procument Review. All ICB, all LIB, and all DC procurement packages would be
subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. All prior review items would cover over 80% of the total amount
of the loan. Other Loan-funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post-review duriq the
supervision of the projec. in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines.
F. Disbursements
3.60         The allocation of loan proceeds to various disbursement categories is shown in Table 4
below. As the proposed Project plans three years of silviculture activities, (i.e. comnencing with the
1995 season), with about nine to twelve months of preceding in-depth planning and preparation, the loan
would be disbursed over a period of about 5.5 years.
Table 4. Disbursement Categories
Disbursement aeor               Allocation          Disbursement Basis
(US$mil.)
1.0  Goods: equipment and       US$16.4             100%  of foreign expenditures
materials                                      100%  of local ex-factory cost; and
90%  for other items procured
locally
2.0  Technical Assistance and   US$4.6              100%  of foreign expenditures
Training
3.0  Training                   US$ 2.9             100%  of foreign expenditures
4.0  Forestry Program*           US$6.3             100%  of foreign expenditures
5.0  Special Services
5.1 Wetlands Activities       US$0.2              100%  of foreign expenditures
5.2 FMIS                      US$1.4              100%  of foreign expenditures
5.3 Forestry Research         US$ 1.8             100%  of foreign expenditures
5.4 Prototype Fund            US$2.0              100%  od foreign expenditures
6.0   Civil Works               US$2.4              100%  of foreign expenditures and
(Seeds Facilities only)                       90%  of local expenditures
7.0  Unallocated                US$ 3.8
TOTAL                           US$41.9
(*)   Intensive Silviculture - as ddined in Schedule 2, Parts A.l and A.3 of the Loan Agreement



- 37 -
3.61         The Project's disbursement profile (Annex 8) does not conform to either the sector or
regional disbursement profiles.45 The primary reason for this is that the project is designed for a
relatively short-duration (5.5 years) implementation of a group of activities that fall well within the
implementation capacity of the individual organizations responsible (para. 4.1). The critical path
activities, procurement of equipment, will be covered with intensive pre-implementation planiing and
international consulting procurement assistance, all within the first six months of the project. The initial
implementation schedules for major project components are provided in Annex 7. These will be revised
by the PIU, before November 1, 1994, and the final plans v-ill be provided before May 1, 1995.
3.62         To facilitate Project execution, a Special Account equivalent to US$2 million, representing
about two months of reimbursable expenditures, would be opened in a foreign bank operating (through
a transit account) selected by MinFor with the approval of BNB, and in consultation with the Bank. An
initial deposit of US$0.5 million would be made, and the amount in the Special Account would be
increased to the ceiling of US$2 million at the Bank's discretion and in agreement with the PIU. MinFor
would obtain permission from BNB to operate this free foreign exchange account, to have unrestricted
rights of transfer of payments internationally, and exchange of currency at the official exchange rate
without retention. The special account would be replenished to the extent possible on a monthly basis
upon receipt of replenishment applications supported by documentation (as outlined in paras. 3.56 to
3.58). In addition, replenishment applications would be supported by statements showing transactions on
the special account. Agreements on these terms and conditions for operating the Special Account were
reached during Negotiations.
3.63         Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures under contracts
valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent, and for local training, and operating costs; in these cases
statements of expenditure (SoE) would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment
may be submitted provided they are for amounts equivalent to US$50,000 or larger. The Bank would not
honor direct payment requests below US$50,000. All documentation would be held in the PIU for review
by Bank supervision missions and verification by external auditors.
3.64         Operafting Cost Financing:  For the silviculture operations, financing the foreign
expenditure equivalent from the Bank loan, would be on the basis of agreed production standards and unit
costs for the various work activities. Bank disbursements would be based on an annual agreed work
program, and against actual certified production (measured in physical units, such as the area and volume
of thinning produced) at agreed unit cost rates. The first year's unit cost rate would be determined during
the Project start-up period by the PIU consultants and agreed with the Bank, as a condition for
disbursements against this category; these unit costs would be adjusted annually and subject to
confirmation at the annual audit. Evidence of physical performance and actual silviculture expenditures
(by the rayon-level enterprises) would be retained in the PIU and would be subject to annual audit.
3.65         For the various research contractors, and the Belarus Academy of Sciences (with IWRB
for wetlands activities), disbursement for operating costs would be on the basis of statements of
45.   The regional sector profile -- agriculture -- does not provide for a separate sub-category for forestry
projects; the Regional profile presently contains no experience from FSU countries. The Bank-wide
forestry profile reflects component mixes, and project life which may well not be comparable with the
short-duration design of this project.



- 38 -
expenditures (SoE's). Annual capital and operating expenditure budgets would be agreed with the PIU
and Bank by the end of November of the previous year, and all operating expenditures claimed for pre-
financing or reimbursement under SoE's would have to be in accordance with the agreed budget.
3.66          Conditions of Disbursement would be as follows:
(a)    for Disbursement Category 4: prior agreement with the Bank on the standard unit cost
of silviculture operations;
(b)    for Disbursement Categories 5.1: prior to approval by GoB of the anmual program
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)    for Disbursement Categories 5.2: prior to the approval of the Bank of the work plan for
the budget and related hardware purchases;
(d)    for Disbursement Categories 5.3: prior to the approval by MinFor's Scientific and
Technical Council of the annual research program, with expenditures agreed between
GoB and the Bank, including the contributions of GoB from specified budgetary sources;
(e)    for Disbursement Categories 5.4: prior to the establishment of the Prototype Fund, as
agreed with the Bank.
G. Environmental Considerations
3.67          The Project has been designate as Environment Caregory B. Environment Assessments
and Reviews* were undertaken during Project preparation in four areas:
(a)    a general review of the forestry environmental aspects of the Project's interventions;
(b)    forest fires and the implications for the spread of radionuclides from the Chemobyl-
contaminated zone;
(c)    wetlands forests; and
(d)    Chemobyl impacted forestry resources.
46.    Environmental Assessments and Reviews available:
Belarus: Forest Fire Assessment and Protection Strategy (Canadian Interagency Porest Fire Centre,
Canada, 1993).
Belarus: Forest Development Project: Environment Review (Euroconsult, Netherlamds, 1993).
Belarus: Environmental Review of Forested Wetlands (Interational Waterfowl and Wetlands Research
Bureau, UK, in cooperation with Ministry of Environment, National Forest and Nature Agency, Denmatk,
1993).
Environmenal Assessment of Radiological Consequences for Forestry in Contaminated Areas of the
Republfc of Belarus (AECL Research, Canada, 1993).



- 39-
The EAs and ERs identified potential negative environment impacts, other issues and have recommended
amelioration activities (Annex 7).
3.68         The general forest enviromaental review indicated that the proposed interventions by
the Project (i.e., intensified silviculture procedures, the introduction of new mechanization methods, the
forestry seed development, and air-pollution monitoring) would all have a positive impact on the
environment. The review indicated that the environmental standards and procedures for intensified
silviculture and mechanization proposed under the Project are environmentally sound practices and
appropriate for Belarus conditions.
3.69         The review identified the negative en-vironmental impact of the current, inadequate
supervision of harvesting by MinFor (mostly of BeUesprom enterprises and MinFor's own rayon-level
enterprises) and the lack of enforcement of harvesting regulations. Agreements was reached at
Negotiations that within three months after the completion of the FSP (i.e. at about the mid-term of the
project), GoB would present to the Bank its plan for MinFor's strengthened role in regulation and
enforcement for forestry practices and environmental protection, and GoB would present an
implementation plan for these improved regulatory practices for agreement between the Bank and GoB.
3.70         The forestry wetlands environmental review indicates some significant environmental
issues related to forestry on the wetlands and drained areas. IWRB3 has also identified the absence of
adequate oversight and regulation, of both harvesting contractors (a MinFor problem), and of the
Ministry of Energy's mining of peat soils for fuel (an issue for MinNat and the Ministry of Agriculture)
and the need to train regulators and area wardens. IWRB has recommended restricting all forestry
operations in these areas to the two or three months of the year when the wetlands are frozen over, so
as to minimize the soil damage from forestry vehicles. The Project's proposed light mechanization would
be acceptable in the wetlands, but not the current mechanization used by MinFor and Bellesprom.
Furthermore, in the transition zones to the wetlands, it will be necessary to introduce and enforce
regulations for building light temporary wooden fords over the creeks and streams that feed the wetlands
in order to prevent watercourse damage by the forestry and transport vehicles.
3.71         IWRB has pointed out that MinFor and Belgosles do not at present have special practices
and regulations for wetlands and drained wetlands silviculture and harvesting. One of the major
differences between dryland forestry practices and wetlands is the recommendation by IWRB that all
forest wastes be removed from the areas to prevent disturbing the wetlands nutrient balance with
excessive wood-sourced nutrients from decaying forest wastes.4'
3.72         Extensive peat areas have been, and are, mined for fuel by the Ministry of Energy in an
unregulated and destructive fashion.A These lands are subsequently returned to the Lands Authority in
the Ministry of Agriculture for rehabilitation. In general these are then assigned to MinFor for
afforestation. IWRB has noted Belarus' successful rehabilitation of some of these mined areas by
47.   In contrast to the recommended practice in dryland to leave the wastes on the forest floor to decay,
thereby permitting the recycling of the wood-based nutrients.
48.   IWRB has urged an interational Peatands Utilization Conference in Belarus, and is to seek international
donor support for this.



- 40 -
returning them to wetlands, instead of foresting these drained and mined-out wetlands. This has the
ecological advantages of pernitting the regeneration of the wetlands biodiversity. It encourages wildlife,
and could provide the basis for eco-tourism, provided that the areas uses are carefully regulated. Therefor
for mined areas, IWRB has strongly recommended their restoration to wetlands. If, nevertheless, mined
sites are to be afforested, then IWRB recommends against planting to a monoculture, but instead suggests
a deliberate planting of mixed stands of soft and hard broadleaves and some spruce. MinFor, under this
project has requested assistance in deveioping new management plans for afforested mined-out peat lands.
IWRB has recommended the establishment of a monitoring systems within MinNat and MinFor for the
wetlands in general, and the forested areas in particular, using the expanded national wetlands inventory49
as the baseline data.
3.73         The Chernobyl-impacted forests environment assessment proposed an operational
classification of the contaminated forests: (i) forests in the areas with less than 15 Ci/kma (the "lower
contamination zones") and; (ii) those in areas with more than 15 Ci/ka2 (the "higher contamination
zones'). For the former, forestry could continue with minimal investmnents to ensure worker safety. The
assessment noted that interim regulatory levels for radionuclide contamination for wood products and
exposure dosages for wood industry workers set by the USSR are consistent with international standards.
However, the exposure risk for harvest and processing workers needs to be monitored. The assessment
considered that, in principle, it is possible to continue forestry in the lower contaminated zones, while
ensuring and maintaining adequate protection for the workers and the public. However, effective
inmplementation of the regulations and monitoring procedures for the safe pursuit of these forestry
activities now requires investments in equipment and training, and the development of a monitoring
system.
3.74         The assessment noted the need to act with some urgency, even in the lower contamination
zone, to salvage mature wood, as there is a rapid rise in the contamination levels of the standing wood.
The assessment estimated that maximum (i.e. steady-state) wood contamination would be reached
between the years 1998 and 2010, decreasing only slowly over time thereafter (halving every 30 years).
Once steady-state contamination has occurred, at maturity (i.e. in at most 80 years time) the natural decay
will not have reduced contamination levels in the wood to acceptable commercial-use levels.
3.75         The assessment viewed forestry in the higher contaminated zones as a mitigation problem
rather than a comm.ercial activity, considering public safety and fire hazards. The assessment stressed
that in all contaminated forests the forest wastes are a potential environmental hazard. Saplings, tree
branches and undergrowth tend to be more contaminated than wood. Special waste disposal may
therefore be required. Ash from burning wood is also a problem as the radionuclides become
concentrated in the smoke and the ash. The assessment recommended additional investigations into waste
control in some geographic areas.
3.76         Envronment Assessment and Reviews during Project implementation: The FSP will
include Environmental Assessments (EAs) and Environmental Reviews (ERs) of forestry in the major eco-
49.   Now being complied by the Belarus Academy of Sciences in conjunction with IWRB, and to be expanded
with funding from this Project.
50.   i.e. Where the contamination in the soil is in balance with the contamination in the wood.



- 41 -
zones (dry lands, sandy soils, wetlands and peats, radiaton f".ests). Questions of sustainability for
commercial harvesting, environmentally appropriate age-class restucturng strategies, the appropriateness
of the present forestry protection and conservation categories and conditions, and the strategy for
sustained fuelwood production will be included.
3.77         Issues raised in the EAs and ERs conducted during Project preparation, and noted above,
will be considered in depth by the PSP (paras. 3.37). The FSP will also make recommendations for the
inclusion of environmental factors in the future planning process and forestry operations management.
Results and recommendations from the three reviews noted above have been incorporated into the draft
FSP Terms of Reference (ToR). Within the framework of the agreements reached at Negotiations on the
use of,the Bank's Guidelines for the selecdon of Project-financed consultancies, an understanding was
reached with GoB that the ToRs for the EAs and ERs will be conducted in conjunction with the FSP
agreed upon with the Bank by both MinFor and MinNat.



v42 -
PART IV. PROJECT DIPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Summary
4.1          MbFor would have overall responsibility for all project components under a Projet
Implementation Unit (PM). Detailed implementation would follow current operadonal lines of
responsibility for MinFor's divisions, specialized agencies, and field operations (para. 2.33 et seq.),
with the support of a mmber of other agencies. The distribution of functional responsibility is given
below:
Activi                                       hmplementation Responsibility
Sectoral Economic Policy Reforms            MiuT,, MinEcon, BNB, MinFor
Project management, procurement,             PIU - local manger and staff, with
reimbursement and disbursement claims       international procurement and Project
administration, Project reporing, etc.      management consultants.
Production support (intensified silviculture,  MinFor and its rayon-level enterprises
mechanizaion)
Seed facilities                             Blgiproles and MinFor, with consultant
services for final design, construction and
equipment bid award assistance, constuction and
installation supervision, commissioning and
taining.
Fire Protection                             MinFor (Fire Protection Division), the national
fire service and international expertise.
Air pollution Monitoring                    MinFor, with MinNat.
Radioactivity Monitoring System, Quality    MihFor, Delgosles, Goscomhenmobyl, with
Control and Certification                   intemational technical assistance
Wetlands Forestry Monitoring                MinFor, Belgiproles, The Bdarus Academy ox
Sdences in collaboration with IWRB
Forestry Resarch and Development            Gomel, Kirov and other research institutes
contrted by MinFor; FSP would be
responsible for Research strategic planning



- 43 -
Forestry Education Plarming                 Kirov, with international consultants, with an
interagency Advisory Panel; collaboration with
the FSP for Education and Manpower strategic
planning
Forestry Strategic Plan                     International and local forestry expertise,
MinFor, Gomel, Kirov, Belgosles, in
collaboration with MinNat
Forestry Management Iformation System       Belgosles; Kirov; Minsk National University
Software Laboratory; local and international
consultants
MinFor (and other) staff training           MinFor, using international consultants (training
of trainers) and Kirov and other universities,
under a Training Advisory Panel including
MinFor, Bellesprom, the FSP consultants and
the international advisory panel to Kirov.
MinFor reuctuing planming (preparation for    FSP with international consultants under
privatization)                              MinFor, and in collaboration with MihFin and
GK! (State Committee for the Management of
State Property)
Prototype Fund                              Administered by MinFor; implementation
through local industry with potential technical
participation by Kirov, Gomel and international
joint-venture (or licensee) partners
Environmental Assessments and Environmental    MinFor in agreement and collaboration with
Reviews                                     MInNat, utilizing international and local
expertise within the framework of the FSP
Sector Economic Policy Ronr  - nplementatlon Responsibility
4.2          Sector policy reforms are at two levels: (a) national policy that has an impact on the
forestry sector; and (b) structural reform policy within the forestry sector.
4.3          For the national policy, the responsibility lies with MinFin and MnEcon.
Implementation of detailed aspects in the already agreed upon macro-economic policy reforms under the
IMF's STh, and the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan, are essential prior conditions for the sector-specific
application agreed under this Project.
4.4          While the overall strucal reform principles were agreed under the STF and the
Rebabilitation Loan, determiing the details of forestry sector specific reforms falls within the prerogative



-44 -
of the forestry section of MluEcon and with MinFor (with the agreement of MinEcon, and the
coordination of the wood processing industry). Implementation is the responsibility of MinFor. Timing
of implementation of specific sector reforms depends on prior progress of macro-economic policy
reforms (agreed under STF and the Rehabilitation Loan) which is the responsibility of MinFin and
MinEcon. A detailed sector policy reform program was agreed during Negotiations, together with GoB's
commitment to deliver a policy implementation timetable to the Bank by May 1, 1995.
Ministry of Forestry
4.5          Project Implementation Plan. MinFor has made the decision not to implement some
major components of this Project (silviculture and mechanization) until about mid-1995. The period from
Project effectiveness (expected in July 1994) to mid-1995 will be spent on detailed pre-implementation
planning, logistics and training activities. These include:
(a)   the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and it local staffing (para. 4.8)
(b)   the selection and appointment of international consultants to the PIU for Project
management and procurement advisory services, and consequently:
-issuing of equipment and machinery procurement documents, and completion of
procurement required for the 1995 implementation program
completion of the preliminary and the detailed implementation plans (para. 4.6);
(c)   the selection and appointment of international consultants for the FSP (paras 4.14 et
seq.);
(d)   technical surveys by the FSP of the rayon-level enterprises to determine mechanization
and spare parts needs, and the most suitable locations for the implementation of the
intensive silviculture program;
(e)   training of MinFor rayon-level staff and private contractors in new harvesting methods;
(f)   the establishment of the various advisory panel and implementation committees at Gomel
and Kirov (paras 4.21 and 4.23 et seq. respectively);
(g)   the formal establishment of the Prototype Fund (para 4.26); and
(h)   implementation of agreed sector policy reforms.
4.6          MinFor plans to use the first six to nine months of the international consultants' time on
the FSP (para. 4.14 et seq.) to provide, in conjunction with Belgosles, a detailed implementation plan
for the production support component (i.e. the regional and district plans for the intensified silviculture
component, and the machinery supply and replacement and rehabilitation plans).
4.7          At Negotiations agreement was reached with GoB, that a preliminary implementation plan
would be completed and agreed upon with the Bank before November 1, 1994, and that a detailed plan
would be competed before June 30, 1995. In addition, agreement was reached that revised annual
implementation plans would be presented and agreed with the Bank before November 1 of each year.



- 45 -
An understanding was reached with GoB that these annual implementation plans would form the basis
for Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and the Project Completion Review (PCR).
4.8          ProLect mplemientation Unit.  MinFor's Deputy Minister of Forestry has been
designated as the overall Project Director. MinFor does not have the administrative capacity for Project
administration. Therefore, the PIU under him would have a designated full-time PIU Manager. The PIU
would be responsible for all the administration of Project expenditures, procurement, aisbursement
claims, Project accounting and record-keeping and reporting. The PIU would be supported with
international expertise in project administration and international procurement and training for PIU staff.
The operating principles and staffing for the PIU were confirmed at Negotiations. The appointment of
the PIU local staff and the provision by MinFin of the required operating budgets are conditions of loan
effectiveness.
4.9          Seed Facilities. Planning and construction of the seed centers would be the responsibility
of Belgiproles (para. 2.36(b)) with agricultural and engineering Technical Assistance. Supervision of
construction would also be carried out by consultant engineers funded by the project. Seed equipment
suppliers would, under the supply provisions of the contract, provide MinFor with training. Other
related training for the seed facilities could be financed under the technical assistance component of the
loan.
Enviroment Components
4.10         Forest Fire Protection. The Fire Protection Division of MinFor, in coordination with
the National Fire Service, would be responsible for implementation of the fire protection sub-component.
Some international technical assistance would be provided to introduce, and provide training for, the
computerized fire management and information system, and to train the elite fire fighting brigade.
4.11         Air pollution Monito. The forest air pollution monitoring system design has been
agreed between MinFor, Belgiproles and MinNat. Daily operations responsibility will be with
Belgiproles. International training for operations and data analysis would be financed under this sub-
component.
4.12         Radiation Monitoring System. Product Audit and Cerification. MinFor will be
responsible, through Belgiproles, for identifying the enterprises where additional equipment would be
required. The development of the worker exposure and health monitoring system (and data base), and
the product monitoring systems would be carried out by Belgiproles, with international technical
assistance. The product safety audit and certification would be provided under irternational technical
assistance.
4.13         Wetlands Forestr. International technical assistance would be provided to design the
monitoring system for the forests on the wetlands and drained wetlands. The completion of the
international wetlands inventory will be the responsibility of the Belarus Academy of Sciences (funded
by MinNat) and working in conjunction with IWRB. For the wetlands of national irmportance and the
drained wetlands with forestry activities, the inventory, funded under this project, will be managed by
MinFor through Belgiproles, also tutilizing the Academy and IWRB. Establishment of the wetlands and
drained wetlands forestry monitoring program is the responsibility of MinFor and Gomel with the



- 46 -
assistance of the Belarus Academy of Sciences Training for forest wetlands and drained wetlands
regulation-enforcement would be the responsibility of MinFor and MinNat, with international technical
assistance. General wetlands and drained wetlands forestry management plans are the responsibility of
MinFor, with the additional assistance and coordination for the development of new wetlands-forestry
planning and regulations by Belgosles. The latter would be assisted by the work of the international
consultants for the FSP.5' Detailed arrangements for the administration of the various sub-components
of the Wetlands activities were agreed at Negotiations.
Techical Assistance and Institution Building
4.14         The Forestry Strategic Plan (FSP). International consultants, experts in forestry and
ecology, would have the primary responsibility for the development of the FSP. They would be assisted
by a professional counterpart team drawn from MinFor, Belgosles, MinNat, Kirov and Gomel.
4.15         Although the FSP team (consultants and counterparts alike) would be answerable only to
MinFor, because of the importance of this plan to a number of agencies, an Advisory and Review Panel
("the Panel") is suggested consisting of MinFor, MinPin, MinEcon, Bellesprom, Belgosles, MinNat,
Gomel and Kirov.
4.16         Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the FSP's ToR would be provided to the
Bank for approval before June 30, 1994, within the Bank's Guidelines for the use of Project-financed
consultants, and that the consultants would be appointed before September 30, 1994.
4.17         Aside from forestry development, the ToR would include forests industry implications
and the environment assessment of all the proposed forestry plans for the next decade. The Forestry
Manpower forecasts would be carried out within the framework of the FSP, with significant contributions
of the KLrov staff. The consultants would also be responsible for conducting seminars at headquarters (for
MinFor and the Panel) and at the oblast and rayon levels to explain the conclusions and implications of
the proposed strategy.
4.18         The consultants would also assist a team appointed by MinFor (and including MinEcon
and MinNat) to prepare the detailed studies for the proposed follow-on project (or projects) for Bank and
other financing.
4.19         The Forestrv Management Infonnation System (FMIS). A FMIS is being developed
jointly by Belgosles, Kirov and the Minsk University Software Laboratory, to Belgosles' specifications.
The Software Laboratory will provide additional programming expertise to compete the system with
financing from the Project. International expertise would provide the specifications for some special
forestry planning and inventory features.  In additional local expertise would be funded, under the
supervision of Belgosles computer administration section, for the conversion of Belgosles current data,
and over time its historic data, to the new computer system. Close cooperation with the ultimate FMIS
administration (Belgosles) and the end-users, the MinFor rayon-level enterprises, would be required
under the Project.
51.   Drawing on expertise from MinFor, the Belarus Academy of Sciences, IWRB, Gomel, Kirov and MinNat.



-47 -
4.20         During Negotiations agreement was reached that the work plan, budget and draft
agreement with the Software Laboratory for software and systems development services, and the plans
and budget for the FMIS hardware requirements would be submitted to the Bank for approval before
November 30, 1994.
4.21         Forestry Research. MinFor's Scientific and Technical Council, with the Ministry of
Forestry in the chair, has functioned for a number of years as the oversight body determining forestry
research priorities and reviewing annual research progress. This Council would review the proposed
annual MinFor contract research programs and achievements under the past year's contracts, and vote
on the budgets for this annual contract proposals from submission from MinFor to the PIU. These
annual programs and budgets would be submitted for approval to the bank not later than November 1 of
each year.
4.22         An international advisory panel, consisting of three eminent scientists would also be
funded under the Project. This body would review research contract proposals and results, and advise
the Scientific and Technical Council on future research directions.
4.23         Forestrf  Hiher Education. The mission proposes that the forestry higher education
planning program be reviewed in detail by a Steering Committee of MinFor, Belgosles, Bellesprom,
Gomel, the Ministry of Education and two independent representatives from the Belarus Academy of
Sciences, one in education and the other in biological sciences, with Kirov providing the secretariat for
the committee. Within the three education institutions a number of study conmmittees have been
recommended to focus on each major subject-matter discipline, and then at the institutional level to
provide the cross-departmental and cross-institutional analyses.
4.24         An international advisory panel of three eminent forestry educators would also be funded
under the Project. This body would, on a bi-annual basis, review the curriculum and staff training
proposals, and advise on future directions.
4.25         The three educational institutions would be assisted by the consultants assigned to the FSP
(a part of their ToR will include future manpower skills requirements and skill-demand projections), and
by specialized subject-matter and education consultants during the implementation. The anticipated
twinning arrangement with a European forestry higher education institution would also provide input into
this education plan.
4.26         Prototvpe Development:  MinFor would establish a "Prototype Fund" as an
independent financial entity, placing the full allocation from this Project into its capital account, as it is
drawn down. It would administer the fund in perpetuity, and would reinvest its repayments, royalties
and profit participation in further prototype developments. Use of the fund would be restricted to
research, development and assembly of the first manufacturing prototype for forest and wood industries,
wood energy related equipment and machinery, and equipment for air pollution and radioactivity
monitoring and contamination amelioration.
4.27         MinFor would enter into specific agreements with each manufacturer, including the
agreement that the manufacturer invest in principle at least equally from its own resources for each



- 48 -
prototype developed from this fund.' Specifications for each proposed product would be agreed between
MinFor and the enterprises. MinFor would establish a Management Board for the Prototype Fund
consisting of appropriate external expertise. The appointments to this Board would be made for a period
of three years, and would be done in consultation with the Bank. MinFor would also establish a product-
development steering committee for each investment drawing on appropriate technical expertise from
academia and commercial expertise from the private sector.
4.28         If, at the conclusion of prototype testing, the decision is made by the industrial partner
to proceed with commercial manufacture, the enterprise would agree to repay to the Prototype Fund,
through a 3 % of annual gross sales revenues royalty charge from sales of the product and its subsequent
versions, for a period of 10 years. If after the prototype stage, the industrial partner does not move to
commercialization within 2 years, the prototype and all the technical drawings, the testing results, etc.,
become the possession of the Prototype Fund in lieu of repayment of the Fund's portion of the
development costs. The Fund may then permit another industrial partner to develop the conmnercial
product under similar royalty conditions.
4.29         These arrangements were agreed during Negotiations, including the preparation of the
Fund's Charter and bye-laws, for approval by the Bank no later than September 30, 1994, for formal
establishment by December 1, 1994. An understanding was reached at Negotiations with GoB that the
Fund's bye-laws would limit risk-exposure to US$100,000 for any one prototype, and that total Fund
exposure at any one time to any single manufacture (and its subsiliaries, partnerships and/or joint
ventures) would be limited to US$300,000.
4.30         Training. The training programs proposed for MinFor staff and for potential private
sector contractors would be administered by MinFor, using training contractors for the design and
implementation of the programs. MinFor would utilize a Training Advisory Panel including MinFor,
Bellesprom, the FSP consultants and the international advisory panel to Kirov. The responsibility for
course development and the training of local trainers and course development (by international experts)
would be determined on a case-by-ase basis by MinFor in consultation with the FSP consultants and the
international advisory panel to Kirov.
4.31         Training of the staff would be assigned to local trainers who had been trained under the
project by the international trainers. This training would include specific courses provided by Kirov and
other local universities and training institutions based on courses developed under this project in
conjunction with the international experts. The identification of the detailed training programs, both
technical and pre-privatization, would be provided by the FSP consultants during the implementation
planning phase. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that an annual program for this training would
be submitted by MinFor for approval by the Bank by enid-June of each year.
4.32         Other Technical Assistance.  MinFor would hire specific international and local
consultantts for short-term advisory requirements as the need arises during Project implementation. For
example, an area where international consulting would be utilized is for the redesign of MinFor's the
enterprise accounting and forestry cost-accounting system, its introduction and the training of the staff.
52.    Depending on the degree of involvement in the product development or just the prototype manufacturing
the level of counterpart fimding would be established on a case-by-case basis.



- 49 -
A second major use of these funds would be for the annual audit of Project expenditures and reporting
by independent auditors. The requirements would be agreed with the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.33         One of the initial tasks of the FSP would be the development of a detailed implementation
program for the Project (para. 4.14) This would include time- and activity-based targets and perfornce
measures. In addition, externality indicators would be included (e.g. direct employment generation,
market and price development, etc.). The task of the project management consultants in the PIU would
be to assist MinFor to design the reporting systems, including the measurement of actual performance
against these targets, and to assure timely and quality reporting. The matrix would be transferred to the
oblast-and rayon-level implementors for reporting to the PIU and for self-evaluation.
4.34         Project evaluation and the responsibility for the PCR would rest with MinFor utilizing,
among others, the expertise and data of the PIU. MinFor's responsibility for the PCR was confirmed
at Negotiations. The evaluation of the silviculture, seed, air pollution and environmental aspects of the
Project should include independent assessments by experts appointed from Gomel, Kirov and by MInNat,
and that these evaluations be included in the PCR. For the education and R&D components, independent
assessments by the Ministry of Education and Bellesprom Academy of Sciences, would be required with
assistance from the international advisory panel (paras 4.21 and 4.24 respectively).
C. Accounts and Audits
4.35         Separate accounts for the Project's expenditures would be kept by the PIU and within the
general accounts of MinFor its rayon-level enterprises, the Protope Fund, Gomel, Kirov, and the
Belarus Academy of Sciences, and would subject to independent annual audit. As audit arrangements
in Belarus are rudimentary, agreement was reached at Negotiations that an accounting firm be hired under
the "other technical assistance" component for the annual audit (para. 4.32) with qualifications acceptable
to the Bank and GoB. Because the funding for most of the Project components would be integral with
daily operations of MinFor and Gomel, the PIU project management consultants would be required to
set up adequate accounts and procedures for all the Project implementors (para. 4.1), integrated as far
as is feasible with the accounting system.
4.36         For the intensified silviculture sub-component where loan financing would be based on
certified perfonnance, the PILl and FSP consultants would together set up the necessary performance
measurement and reporting, for each rayon-level enterprise. However, for reimbursement on this
expenditure item the PIU would establish an annual standard cost schedule, and reimbursement would
be on the basis of certified physical performance at the unit cost rates. Determination of the
reasonableness of the units cost schedule would be examined at the annual audit, as would the
measurement, reporting and certification process for physical performance.
4.37         Because of the dependency of disbursements for a number of components on audit results,
agreements were reached at Negotiations that the annual audit would be completed and the fnal annual



- 50-
audit report delivered by the external auditors, through the PIU to the Bank, no later than the end of
March of each year, for the previous year's accounts.
D. Implementation and Supervision Plan
4.38         Project Implementation. The PIU would implement the production components of the
Project through the rayon-level enterprises (paras 4.6 and 4.14 et seq.), with management assistance from
consultants in the PIU. Among the first tasks of the PIU would be the initiation of the selection process
for the PIU and FSP consultants.
4.39         A preliminary indicative project inplementation schedule has been drawn up (Amex 7),
for key component, but this will be revised almost immediately by the PIU as it develops the detailed
implementation plans. With the assistance of the FSP consultants, the PIU would establish the framework
implementation plan for the MinFor components of the Project within the first six months of the
commencement of their assignment. The revised plans will become the basis for project supervision and
reporting. MinFor/PIU and Belgosles, with FSP consultant's assistance in the first two years, would
develop the anmnal detailed implementation plans for the intensive silviculture and mechanization
components.
4.40         The critical path for the implementation of the air pollution and radiation monitoring, fire
protection and the seeds facilities components is the procurement of equipment and, in the case of the
latter, the awarding of the contracts to build the facilities. The PIU's procurement advisors would assist
with the preparation of the procurement documentation, and the procurement process could be initiated
before the end of 1994.
4.41         Gomel, Kirov, the FMIS and wetlands teams will each have developed their plans for
the first year of their respective component implementation before Project effectiveness, and these wi1l
be submitted for approval to the PIU staff (whose appointment is a condition of effectiveness) and the
Bank.
4.42         Supevislon.  It is estimated that the Project would requwre higher than normal
supervisory coefficients especially in the initial 18 month period, with visits by Bank staff and
consultants, about three times a year. With the intention to follow this Project with a wider investment
in the forestry sector, supervision would be combined with project preparation tasks in the last year of
the Project. Detailed supervision plans would be based on the detailed annual implementation plans to
be presented annually to the Bank by the PIU, under agreement reached at Negotiations (see para. 4.5).
4.43         Mid-term Review. An understanding was reached at Negotiations on a Mid-term Review
(MTR) of the Project by a joint team of the Bank and MinFin, with Mlnor/PIU acting as its secretariat.
This review would be timed for approximately three montis after completion of the FSP, expected near
the end of the second year of project implementation. The expectation of the MTR is that GoB53 and
MinFor would, by that time, have conducted an in-depth review of the FSP and prepared the
53.   Including MinFor, MinEcon, MinNat, Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Energy and Labor, Belgosles,
Goscomchenobyl, Gomel, Kirov, Belarus Academy of Sciences.



-51 -
Government's strategic plan for forestry for the next decade, including fiurther policy reforms and
implementation. More importantly, by that time operative decisions on the continued ile on of
this Project compatible with the GoB's fitue forestry strategy would need to be considered and agreed
between the Bank and GoB.
4.44         As this is the first investment project with GoB, aside from the question of effective
macro-economic and sector policy implementaion (para. ?), the Project is breaking new ground within
MinFor, both technically and managerially. Therefore Project design needs to remain flexible to
accommodate unanticipated developments. The MTR would afford the opportunity to assess the viability
and the impact of each Ptoject component, and if found necessary, the need may arise to make changes
in component scope and internal reallocations of fund between components, in agreement with GoB, and
with due notification to the Bank's Board.



- 52 -
PART V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICING
A. Production
5.1          Projected harvest is shown in Table S below. The incremental thinning component of the
Project is expected to produce incremcntal pulpwood and fuelwood of about 0.9 to 1.3 million m3
amually from 1995 to 1997 by comparison with 1993 levels. The refurbishing of the harvesting
equipment would prevent further decline from 1993 harvest levels.  It is notable that production is
below the potential AAC (Annex 3), reflecting both the danmened market demand (see para. 5.4) and
the decline in the machine capacity for harvesting of mature wood.5 The slow development of the mature
wood volumes to reach the fill AAC by the end of the century reflects the mission's assessment of the
development of market demand and the availability of capital for the necessary investments in new
harvesting equipment.
Table S. Projected Amwal Harvest
(million mn3 ob)
1993*   1994   1995    199    1997    1998    1999    2000
MinFor Forests:
Fuelwood     1.125   1.069   1.441   1.556   1.556   1.634   1.716   1.802
Pulpwood    2.300   2.185   2.930   3.160   3.160   3.318   3.484   3.658
Sawlogs     4.200   3.990   4.190   4.399   4.619   4.850   5.092   5.347
Veneer      0.375   0.356   0.374   0.393   0.412   0.433   0.455   0.477
Other Forest       0.800   0.800   0.840   0.882   0.926   0.972   1.021   1.072
Total Hrvest       8.800   8.400   9.774  10.390  10.674  11.208  11.768  12.357
AAC                       14.000  14.000  14.000  15.000  15.000  14.500  14.500
Total Harvest as % AAC:    60%     70%     74%     71%     75%     81%     85%
(*) esmate
Source: Annex 3, Figures 1 & 5; Mission estimates
5.2          Even though markets are currently depressed, the proposed level of investment in the
sector and level of timber extraction are necessary in order not to jeopardize the medium-term viability
of the existing forest (Amex 3). To mainain the commercial viability of the forest a minimum level of
extraction of undersized and mature trees must be undertaken, and plantations thinned to promote
vigorous growth of the remaining trees. This requires a minimm level of production, almost irrespective
of market demand conditions.
54.   Reflected in a 5% capacity decline in 1994 ahead of the Project's investments in machinery capacity.



- 53 -
B. Markets
5.3          Market demand and future trends for exports and imports cannot be easily projected at
this time. International pulpwood markets are depressed. The FSU markets have collapsed. The future
impact of Russian production of pulpwood, pulp, and wood products is not known, as the Russian
forestry industry is yet to be restructured. It has vast standing wood resources and excess, albeit
mislocated, processing capacity.
5.4          The local market for wood and wood products is presently artificially depressed because
of the hardships of economic transition, and the consequent darnpening in consumer buying power.
MinFor reports growing inventories of thinnings (essentially fuelwood and pulpwood), and a reluctance
to harvest even more thinnings if no mnarket outlets can be found. Paradoxically there are signs of
increasing constraints to wood products supply (based however on mature logs) and indicators of
artificially depressed demand:
(a)   in the larger cities, an expansion in new private housing construction has created an on-
going demand for wooden construction elements, with complaints of significant shortages
of these construction components;
(b)    complaints are also being voiced about the long waiting period for furniture, in spite of
the perceived high price for furniture;
(c)   there is growing private sector interest in investing in new wood industries (often export
oriented); and
(d)    a vigorous informal market is now being reported in wood and wood products,
particularly in unprocessed large-sized roundlogs and construction elements.
5.5          Given the chronic shortage of housing in Belarus, there should be a significant expansion
in housing construction once the economic reforms take hold, with a positive impact on wood product
demand. Directly related to this expected expansioi in housing construction will be r.ew home-owner
spendinmg on furniture.
5.6          There is a domestic market for fuelwood. To date it has been artificially supported by
subsidized fuelwood prices, but at the same tine it has been artificially dampened by low conventional
energy costs. With the expected real increases in fuel costs, a switch to fuelwood could occur. There
could be a significant market impact (and consequent positive economic impact) if industrial use of
fuelwood was substituted for imported heating fuels. For this to be achieved, however, investments in
modifications55 to heat-only-boiler would be needed. GoB's strategy for expanded fuelwood utilization
is now being examined under the Bank's Belarus Energy Sector Review. Potential investments could be
funded from the planned loan to this sector. The mission estimates that potential demand for fuelwood,
as a substitute for fuel imports, could reach 2 million n3 ob annually.
55.    For wood-chip feeders and emissions controls, and for the burning of radioactive wood, safe ash disposal.



- 54 -
5.7           MinFor had expected to export pulpwood to Scandinavia but this has proven unprofitable
due to a recent three-fold increase in Russian rail rates. However, given the dynamics of the international
pulp market, future market corrections to international pulpwood prices will, despite the increased
Russian rail rates, resurrect export potential for Belarus pulpwood.5' Based on market surveys, MinFor
has an annual target of 1 million mr ob of pulpwood exports, a threefold increase over present export
levels.
5.8           Belams' main competitors in the pulpwood markets are the Baltic states and Russia, all
of which have advantages in transport costs to Scandinavia compared to Belarus. Belarus' current
comparative advantage lies in its currently low labor costs, which may be a reflection of current
exchange rate misalignments. The Project is tailored to exploit this present advantage of the country's
low-cost labor by emphasizing efficient labor inputs and reducing capital costs. Data available from the
EBRD's analysis of the smallwood-based manufacturing and investment potential, indicates that the
present margin of advantage for Belarus is large and that wage rates can increase in real terms very
significantly before this seriously impedes Belarus' cost advantage. As real wages can be expected to
increase over time, the Project's emphasis on improving market-efficiency both in harvesting and in
processing should compensate for unfavorable changes in factor costs, and ensure that Belarus' wood
industries establish and maintain a competitive edge.
5.9           The  proposed   EBRD's
Belesprom  Project will increase the local    MDF:        utilizes thinning wood and promotes
wood industry's demand for mature wood and                rational management of immature
smallwood.  The project preparation has                   forests; aims at growing export
projected anmnal incremental demand from the              markets and expected future domestic
proposed investments as follows:                          market demand
'00 equmvl)   Sawnwood
(ob eSiv.)       and Energy:   specialized sawmill technology to
MFmalawood:                                               utilize thiiming wood to produce
MDF plants                    148                      sawnwood for export; waste materials
Sawmills and Energy plants    212                      converted into heat and electricity,
Mture wood:                                               and substitutes for energy imports
Furniture components           95
Parquet flooring                8     Box 7: Potential Indusial Utilization of Smallwood
Source: EBRD Project Prepaation Report
Total                            453
For smallwood alone, this wood industry investment p1oposal represents about 30% utilization of the
anmual incremental smallwood production of this project. The project preparation reports notes that the
proposed smallwood sawmill and energy plant concept could easily be replicated (and the energy plant
alone at other industries sites), resulting in a fiurther increase in the demand for smallwood.
56.    Alternative, lower cost and distance, export routes northwards to the Baltic Sea ports and westward through
Poland could be explored within the framework of the intermational trade liberalization (and entering into
goods-in-transit agreements with neighboring countries). Future investments in these transport corridors
would become a priority for Belarus' general export development and competitiveness.



- 55 -
C. Prices
5.10         Ptices.  Prices for mature
wood have until now, been set by official   (Rb. mil.)     MO  1991 1X1    A
stmpage fees, well below the total costs of
current silviculture activities. Box 8 shows,    MiuFor Budget  65   195  1,970 23,000
historically, the extent of under-recovery of    Mifl Stumpage
MinFor's budget through GoB's stumpage      Revenues         34    72   381  7,580
revenues, an indicator of past and current    C
underpricing of timber in Belarus.  As a           % Budget 52%   37%   19%   32%
funther  mdication  of  the  extent  of    SB3
underpricing, a comparison with neighboring
country stumpage fees (Box 5), shows   ou: MinF, MinFor, mission cszima (1993)
Poland, the lowest, at US$10/m3, and the
Czech Republic, the highest, at US$17/m3, and Belarus at only US$1/m3 equivalent in October 1993.
5.11         The proposal by MinFor to open the Belarus market to international buyers and sellers
should cause local prices to move towards neighboring country prices, adjusted for transport costs and
quality. Currently, with the absence of an open market for standing wood, no market price trend can
be projected. However, a black market is reported based on the redistribution of allocated roundwood.
While prices in this market for roundwood were not accessible to the appraisal mission, it was understood
that they were many times the official stupage price.



- 56 -
PART VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1          The Project would provide financial, economic, social, environmental, and institutional
benefits. The most important benefits are the short- and medium-term promotion of economic efficiency
in the management and protection of the forests and in the long term increases in forest yield and the
extraction of the lumber. The quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits for the Project are outlined
below.
Direct Economic Benefits
6.2          Improved economic returns would be achieved from the following specific forestry
management programs:
(a)    Thim_ns progam. Both short- and long-term benefits will be derived; short-term
benefits will include incremental pulpwood and fuelwood production, while long-tem
benefits include higher tree growth and productivity, improved stand health, improved
logging efficiency and therefore lower logging costs and fuel consumption, and a
reduction in fuel-oil imports. Production and consumption of fuelwood, particularly as
a substitute for oil and gas imports from Russia and coal imports, would provide
significant benefits in foreign exchange savings.
(b)   Modernization of harvesting operations.  The introduction of light harvesting
mechanization will reduce fuel and labor costs, and contribute to higher efficiency and
productivity, thus increasing economic returns and saving foreign exchange on reduced
fuel import requirements. Similarly the provision of spare parts for existing machinery
will, for the short-term, reduce operating costs.
(c)    Seed Facilties. The provision of selected seeds will improve the genetic quality for that
standing forest species selected for improved tree growth, thus reducing the costs of
replanting, maintenance, and harvesting. Improved seedlings would permit a 50%
reduction in the density of seedlings planted from the present 7,500/ha, to 3,500/ha.
This reduced planting density would, in turn, significantly reduce the expenditures on
thinning during the immature years as well as mature-stand harvest costs. For these
reasons, the forest industry expects significant operating cost savings from the
introduction of improved genetic material and improved seedling quality over the life of
a forest stand (80 to 100 years).
(d)   Employment. At a time of increasing under- and unemployment, the Project will
promote rural job preservation, and even job creation, resulting from expanded intensive
57.   The thinning could best be utilized if there is conversion of small boilers (heat and/or steam) that are
located in the vicinity of the fuel source.



- 57 -
silviculture and the refurbishing of the mechanized harvesting capacity. The Prototype
Fund will, in the short term, employ skilled R&D professionals and should evolve to
future manufacturing of forestry equipment, where significant skilled labor would be
required in the metal working industries (mostly military) that currently face difficulties
in the transition of the market economy.
(e)    Reduction in forest fires. The proposed investments in fire protection ate judged to
improve fire fighting capabilities such that they would reduce the average area bumed in
a fire by 50%. The benefits to the economy of areas that are saved from fire are larger
than just the commercial value of the timber saved (see pan. 6.11). In addition, direct
public health benefits accrue (to both Belarus and its neighbors5s) from reduced risk of
further spread of radionuclide contamination from fires in the Chernobyl-contaminated
forests.
(f)    FMIS. The use of the improved FMIS increases the efficiency of silviculture operations,
facilitating optimal choices of stands and timing of maintenance and harvest. Commercial
forestry operations expect about a 5 to 10% efficiency improvement and anmual operafing
costs savings from operative and plamning uses of FMIS.
Indirect Economic and Social Benefits
6.3           Instituon Building. Development of improved management, corporate planning and
marketing skills, coupled with use of the FMIS, will increase efficiency and improve the decision
management process vithin MinFor and its enterprises. Investments in education and research will
improve the skills of the work force and also increase the stock of applied technology available to
forestry.
6.4           Stnctural adjustments. Market efficiencies wiRl be promoted with (a) real increses in
stumpage fee rates; (b) reallocation of stumpage revenues directly to MbFor; (c) the reduction of GoB
fnding of MinFor's production and maintenance operations;59 (d) free market pricing for wood and
wood products; and (e) the establishment of competition for wood supplies and forest services will
encourage entrepreneurship and competition. Establishment of a Wood Exchange (as now proposed by
MinFor) would facilitate this process. Wood prices should then approach 'efficiency pricing" levels,
contributing to price stabilization at realistic levels.
58.    See footnote 62.
59.    GOB budget funding is expected to continue for national priorities and social investments such affonsion
of marginal lands, fire and flood protection and post-iater rehabilitation; forest, forest-land and
watershed conservation and protection functions; Chernobyl-related amelioration activities; conservation
functions; etc.



- 58 -
Finanial hmpact
6.5          Ministry of Foresty. As seen in Table 6, GoB direct budget supported approximaely
74% of MinFor's budget in 1993, with the balance provided from MinFin's contribution generated by
it's downstream industrial activities at its rayon-level enterprises and from the sale of thinning. The total
contribution of revenues from these components has decreased since 1992. This in turn has placed a
strain on MinFin as it no longer has the resources which to increase MinFor's budget.
Table 6. MinFor Sources and Uses of Funds
ia          1993 est.     1994 est.
%of          %of           %of
Rb. mil Total Rb. mil. Total Rb. mil. Total
SOURCES
MinFin subsidies:
Fire Fighting Equipment  186   6%      688   2%
Silvictiture   1,971   59%  25,009  72%  51,438  77%
Revtnues:
Forestry By-product sales  100   3%     860   2%    1,241   2%
Industrial Activities:
Harvesting    289    9%   2,042     6   2,946   4%
Wood processing    104   3%      734   2%    1,059   2%
Other Products   162   5%   1,142   3%   1,648   2%
Roads: Repairs, Construction    9        60            65
Scientific Investigations  20    1%      112          401   1%
Thinnings: sales revenues  516   15%   3,910  11%   8,000  12%
TOTAL SOURCES           3,357  100%  34,5S7 100%  66,798 100%
Silviculture Costs*     2,299   68%  28,119  81%  57,438  86%
Other Taxes               147   4%   1,717   5%   2,809   4%
Fire Fighting Equipment   186   6%      688   2%
Capital & Social Infrastucture 725   22%   4,033  12%   6,551  10%
TOTAL USES              3,357  100%  34,557 100%  66,798 100%
()    some taxes are mcluded m costs
Source: MinFor annual reports; consultations.
6.6          The Project. MinFin is expected to contribute to a significant portion of local costs of
the Project. Given the lack of GoB budgetary resources, the Project proposes the following policy
reforms to improve cash flow: (a) GoB will increase stumpage fees in real terms over a three year period
to reach full cost recovery of MinFor's total silviculture expenses; (b) all stumpage fees will be directed
to MinFor's account to fund not only the incremental costs of this Project, but also to substitute for GoB
regular budget; and (c) MinFor can retain, to finance its own capital and operating costs (except for a
2 to 5% royalty payment to the national treasury), all the proceeds of its open market wood sales (under



- 59 -
the proposed liberalization of the wood markets and the introduction of the Wood Exchange). Table 7
below summarizes the budgetary impact of the proposed changes in the stumpage fees and the Project's
cost (those not funded by the IBRD loan) on MinFor cash flow, along with other expected cost increases
largely from fuel price adjusmens, etc. Without takg into account the results from open market sales,
the net result of the stunpage increases will be to reduce MinFor's budget dependency from 74% in 1993
to 0% by 1997, as seen in the last line of Table 7, "Net Budget (Deficit)/Surplus assuming phased
stumpage."
6.7         In addition, MiFor's proposed Wood Exchange will permit the capture of additional
revenues on wood sales from industrial processors and exporters. These additional profits could finance
both (a) future forestry capital investments; and (b) a national forestry contingency fimd (for fires, floods,
etc.), replacing GoB budgetary anmual and ad hoc allocations. The FSP will provide advisory services
on the financial restructuring of MinFor under this system of financing.
Table 7. MinFor Budget Projections (US$ millions)
1994    1995    19S 9   1997    1221
Revenue:
Total Stumpage Revenue           $2.7    $2.7    $2.7    $2.9    $3.0
Sale of Thiming (present prices)    $0.6    $0.6    $0.6    $0.6    $0.6
Total Revenue:                     $3.3    $3.3    $3.3    $3.5    $3.6
Costs:
Budget: on-going silviculture   $10.0   $10.0   $10.0   $10.0   $10.0
Incremental Budget requirements*    $4.8   $10.8   $10.0   $10.0   $12.0
Efficiency savings - silviculture**                      ($0.5)  ($1.0)
Total Costs:                       $14.8   $20.8   $20.0   $19.5   $21.0
Budget ( Ne&cit)/Surpius          ($11.6) ($17.6) ($16.8) ($16.1) ($17.4)
Zero deficit stumpage rate (US$/ in3)    $2.7    $3.8    $3.7    $3.3    $3.5
Phased stunpage rate (US$/ m3)     $1.9    $3.0    $3.4    $3.4    $3.5
Net Budget (Deficlt)/Surplus assuming
phased stumpage (US$ million)   ($4.1)  ($4.3)  ($1.4)   $0.5    $0.0
Source: MinFor (1994) and mission esfimates (Annex 5).
(*)   including inemental Local Cost Financng for this Project, and other expanded actvities (e.g.
reglatory fnctions)
(**) impact of Project interventions on silviculture operating costs



-60 -
6.8           MnFor's absence of a capital base, and future severance from direct GoB budget funding
for ongoing operations,60 underscores the inportance of this Project's role in bridging funding through
its lending for operating costs. Loan disbursements will be instrumental in providing the bridge financing
for MinFor's working capital requirements during the 9-12 month period from the investment in
silviculture and harvesting equipment to the receipt of earnings from fuelwood and pulpwood sales. The
Bank's funds are MinFor's first infusion of borrowed money, which would establish MinFin's financial
framework for future corporatization of revenue earning activities. Following this transitional period,
MinFor will be able to sustain itself through revenmes generated from domestic and export sales of logs
and downstream sales products from MinFor's processing enterprises.
6.9           Wood Industries and Services. The Project will provide revenue earning opportunities
for both the Bellesprom and MinFor's enterprises in silviculture harvesting contracts and the processing
of smallwood into commercial products and will serve to encourage new enterprises in forest services
and wood processing. In addition there is are cost savings opporunities with the conversion of the
enterprises' heat-only-boilers to utilize fuelwood in place of imported fuel. To fully benefit from these
opportunities, small-scale investments would be required. The proposed EBRD Wood Processing Project
would provide this financing for selected Bellesprom enterprises.6' Financing for MinFor enterprises
could, in the future, be available from a proposed Bank loan for general industrial development (to be
on-lent through local financial intermediaries), provided that these enterprises have been privatized.
6.10          The Project will however, place downward pressure on both the cash flow and the
profitability of some of the Bellesprom and MinFor enterprises. The proposed increase in stumpage,
(and the parallel expected increase in fuel-related prices) and the proposed competition for harvesting
contracts and harvesting rights will force enterprises to become price competitive and efficient. It is
likely that some of tie weaker enterprises will close, while others will experience downsizing and
reductions in net profits. Those that make the necessary improvements in their operating efficiency will
form the backbone of the future wood processing industry.
Environmental Benefits
6.11          Intrinsic Value from Forestry. MinFor identifies the direct benefits to the economy
of a stand of forest in the following order of priority:
-      biodiversity protection and enacement
-      soil, water and fragile eco-systems conservation
-      carbon sequestration
-      national landscape, the forest heritage, recreation and tourism
-      commercial timber production
-      wildlife and other forest products production.
60.    Except as noted in footnote 59.
61.    The Bank's proposed Energy Sector Loan, now under preparation, is investigating this fuelwood utilization
and substitution opportunity in a broader industrial, municipal and electricity cogeneration context.



- 61 -
6.12          Improved natual resource management. New practices being introduced under this
Project will further promote these intrinsic benefits to the economy. Some examples are as follows:
(a)    Blodiversity and Wildlife.  Changes in silviculture practices will increase plant
biodiversity in the forests. This in tum will promote and support the wildlife.
(b)    Soil disturbance. Soil disturbance will be reduced during harvesting by the elimination
of skidding practices through the usage of loading mechanisms with trucks. Soil
impaction and erosion will also be reduced by the change in equipment.
(c)    Protection of sensitive eco-systems.  The proposed systematic monitoring of the
wetlands, and the changes in forestry operating regulations for these areas, will contribute
to the preservation of this ecosystem.
(d)    Oxygen. Increased carbon sequestration absorption from faster and healthier tree growth
is a benefit from the proposed intensive silviculture program.
6.13          Air pollution monitoring. Improved air pollution monitoring will assist to identify and
eliminate the source of pollution damage to the forests.
6.14          Radioactivity dispersal risk reduction. Reduction in the risk of the spread of radioactive
contamination from fires in the Chernobyl-contaminated forests is a direct benefit to public health in
Belarus and also in the international community.'
6.15          Health Benefits. The improvement in the systematic monitoring of forestry and industry
workers for radioactivity exposure will contribute to their health and the reduction in future health care
costs. Further the proposed systematic auditing of wood products for radioactivity contamination will
reduce the risks to public health, both domestically and internationally.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.16          The economic justification for the Project is driven by:
(a)    short-term benefits (the 1-5 year horizon) derived from the use of thinnings as a
substitute for imported fuel oil and coal in rural domestic and industrial heating, thus
saving foreign exchange, and from the introduction of more energy efficient machinery,
allowing for extraction of more timber per liter of imported gasoline used; and
62.    The radioactive cloud ftom the Chernobyl explosion is reported to have reahed as far west as Ireland and
as far north as Lapland. Radioactive particles re-suspended from the smoke plume of a major fire in the
Chernobyl forests could potentially reach just as far.



- 62 -
(b)    medium- and long-term benefits (the 20 - 100 year horizon) from higher yields of
existing forestry by increasing the size of commercially harvested trees, through both
intensive silviculture and thorough the introduction of improved species (e.g. the Seeds
Facility - para. 6.28).
Project ERR
6.17           The assumptions used in the economic analysis are discussed below, and the results are
summanzed in Table 8 below. The composite Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the total project is
33%;e this composite average includes those Project components having quantifiable returns: namely
intensified silviculture, thinnings mechanization, spare parts, fire management, the seed facility and
benefit for the FMIS.
Intensified Slviculture
6.18         Assuming about one third of total smallwood production is consumed at the energy
equivalent oil import price, the combined return on the key commercial components of the Project,
silviculture with light mechanization of thinning, is 40%. This return is high because the Project
capitalizes on the sunk costs expended on the Belarus forests over the last 50 years. The incremental
benefits generated are significant due to: (i) the relatively light silviculture investment required relative
to the high benefits achieved through redress of years of neglected maintenance, and (ii) the cost
efficiencies and benefits saving achieved through light mechanization. However, this quantification of
the ERR methodology does not adequately capture the real benefits of the objective of this project - the
long-term improvement in the value of the standing wood (to be harvested in the 60th to 80th years after
the project). Therefore, the quantified ERR reflects the current value of fuelwood which is essentially
a by-product of the Project.
6.19         This component has been evaluated on the basis of five models of forest stands: one
representing the "without Project" case (no stand maintenance until age 40 years); and four "with Project'
cases (intensified silviculture applied to stands of ages 20, 25, 30, and 37 years) (Annex 10). These
models utilize MinFor yield tables adjusted for stand density under the assumed planting and silviculture
regimes to project wood production until maturity (100 years). Aside from quantifying the immediate
benefits of smallwood production from the thinning, the models differ in the size of trees remaining in
the stand, the numbers of trees that should be removed, and the volume of wood on an average tree
remaining. This reflects the long-run negative impact of neglect on stand productivity (the "without
Project" case), and the converse, the improvements in yield and production from early improved
maintenance (the "with Project" cases).
63.   This composite return is relatively higher than the overall returns of two forest projects presented to the
Board in 1993 - the Poland Forestry Development Support Project (Report No. 11318-POL) with an
overall ERR of 18%, and the Republic of Tunisia Second Forestry Development Project ( Report No.
11618-TUN) with an overall ERR of 13%. The Poland project is environmental and social-economically
onented. This explains the relatively higher unit investment costs (compared to the Belarus project) for the
volume of (short-term) thinnings production obtained. The Tunisia project's focus is largely environmental;
commercial benefits are a by-product of its implementation.



- 63 -
Table 8. Summary of Economic Rates of Retum
LLoan Component                    Scenaro               ERR
A:   Intensive Silviculture  Base Case Silviculture and
Thinning Mechanization            40%
(B1 & C)
B. 1: Wood Benefits - Base    35% of fuelwood and pulpwood
Case                   sold at oil equivalent prices      15%
B.2:  Wood Benefits - Low     28% of fuelwood and pulpwood
Case                   sold at oil equivalent prices      0%
B.3:  Wood Benefits - High    40% of fuelwood and pulpwood
Case                   sold at oil equivalent prices     99%
C:   Mechanization Benefits   operating cost savings; 8 year
l! _________________________    equipment life                  43%
D:   Clearcut mechanization    operating cost savings; increased
spare parts            operating capacity of existing
machine stock; 4 year refurbished
equipment life                    24%
E:   Seed Facilities                                            39%
F:   Fire Protection         intrinsic value of resources saved
and public health impact          9%
G:   Forestry Management    resource management efficiency
Information System     gains over 10 years               22%
f Total Project*:   a                                            3
WeVigted Average       A, D. , B F and G                  . 
E3RR                                                     33%l
(*) excluding consideration of Technical Assistanmce
6.20         Costs of thinning and harvesting are based on the Project's light mechanization proposals.
International costs of this mechanization system (machinery and labor performance) were adjusted for
Belarus conditions, assuming reasonable levels of management. These models also assumed the
competitive advantages for efficiency and costs of contracted operations in the later years of the Project,
by comparison with less efficient force-account operations. Iternational prices (adjusted to the border)
for fuel were assumed. The economic value of incremental smallwood production is based in the energy
equivalent, i.e. the border price for oil at US$11.23 per cubic meter (Amex 9).



-64 -
6.21         The combined return on this component has been discussed in para. 6.18. To measure
the impact of the Project on the forest yield alone, the models assumed the same basic operating unit cost
structure for the "with Project" and "without Project" case. However, a truer measure of the Project's
economic impact is to reflect in the "without Project' case the inefficient operating costs of the heavy
USSR mechanization (para. 6.26).
6.22         The base case ERR for the intensive silviculture component, which considers a
conservative consumption level of 35% of total fuelwood and pulpwood produced, is 15%. The returns
depend on the assumptions made regarding rural domestic and industrial demand for fiuelwood and the
conversior. of heat-only fuel boilers to fuelwood utilization.
6.23         Sensitivity Test. The silviculture component is highly sensitive to the assumption that
the 20- to 40-year age class thinnings' smallwood harvest will be utilized as an energy substitute and sold,
and is insensitive to the major source of benefits - the long tern improved stand yield. From an ERR
perspective, a break even production level (i.e. ERR = 0%) is achieved when one third of fuelwood and
one third of pulpwood is sold at the oil substitute equivalent of US$11.23/m3.
6.24         Because the operational costs are largely variable, if market demand for fuelwood is not
realized, cash operational losses could be minimized, theoretically, by not engaging the labor and fuel
expenses to perform silviculture operations. Consequently, at minimum the financial losses would be the
invustment costs associated with the silviculture component. However, forgoing silviculture because of
under valued prices, or the absence of short-term demand for fuelwood, would be at the expense of
sacrificing the medium and long-term benefits of improved mature wood derived from proper and timely
thinning.
6.25         The high case scenario (Table 8) experiences accelerated returns because this sensitivity
exercise treats the operational costs as fixed under the assumption that the full silviculture program will
be executed for the long-tenn benefit of the forests and what is not consumed remains unsold, but
harvested, in the silviculture targeted areas.
LIt Mechanization
6.26         Returns to light mechanization are greatly dependent upon the efficiencies achieved
through reorganizing the work force around a changed technology (chainsaws and light mnchanization).
Under ideal conditions, an ERR of 126% is projected assuming 100% efficiency in the program. Under
a more realistic scenario, where a learning curve is assumed from the introduction of the new thnnings
methods and therefore where one third of the theoretical returns are assumed achievable in the first year
of the project, the ERR falls to 43 %.



- 65 -
Harvest Mechanization - spare parts
6.27          This componentwas evaluated
using standard  life curves for cost of             Machinery Cost of Operations
machinery operations, based on Russian-               Comparison: Old vs. Refurbished
manufactured forestry skidder characteristics.              Russian skddder
Cost curves were estimated for two cases:     u
(a) with spare parts and refurbishing; and
(b) without spare parts or refurbishing.
(Figure 6). The savings in operating costs
achieved by refurbishing recover the cost of   1-
the spare parts and the equipment refurbishing
within the first year of operations, and yields   lo-
an ERR for this component of approximately
24%.                                            -H 14 1 1 1    1 I  I I   II     i H  I H   .. .
000 200 400 60 00 10000 1350 1400 1650o 180
ou_mule hou1 vwokd
Seed Facilites                                                 _ -
6.28          Benefits  from   improved  Figure 6- source: Mission asssme
genetic material (para. 6.2(c)) are reflected in
lower replanting costs, lower stand maintenance, better yields and a shorter rotation (i.e harvesting nearer
to 80 years, rather than about 100 years as at present). Utilizing similar stand models as discussed above,
showing improved tree stand performance and lower operatig costs from stands with genetically superior
stock, the savings per hectare were estab.ished. These benefits, scaled up to the expected anual
replanting program provide an ERR is estimated at approximately 39% for the investment in the seed
facilities, without taking into account any benefits from the potential to increased export sales.
Forest Fire Protection
6.29          Expenditures on improved fire protection would reduce by an estimated 30% the average
areas burned annually. The commercial value of a forest stand, assuming a 4% discount rate (a universal
standard hurdle rate for forestry investments) approximates US$1,256/ha; the environmental value is
considered to have at least an equivalent value. Given those assumptions, the investment in fire
protection generates an ERR of approximately 9%.
Forestry Management Information System
6.30         Introduction of a FMIS should provide savings to MnFor between $US 0.25 million and
$US 0.6 million; these savings are based on the 5% to 10% amnual operating cost savings expected from
FMIS utilization in comunercial forestry operations. The MinFor savings assume a conservative phased
savings schedule; from 2.5% to a maximum of 10% over the first four years after the PMIS is
introduced. Purther assumptions included: (a) software development will require substantial renewal after
10 years, and; (b) hardware would be replaced after five years. The ERR for the FMIS component is
22%.



-66 -
C. Risks
6.31         The Project is subject to a range of external and internal risks as follows:
Risk external to the Project
(a)    Macro-economic reforms: the Project is based on the in-depth implementation of policy
refomis. Delays in implementation could result from political constraints (an election is
due soon in Belarus), or as deliberate GoB policy because structural adjustments to the
economy are viewed by policy makers as requiring a conservative pace of reform. This
will demand a similarly slower pacing of the sectoral reforms under this Project, and
therefore could cause a delay in the benefits from the sector policy reforms.
(b)    Sector policy reforms: a number of sector policy reforms change very significantly past
relationship and practices. There could be opposition form both the industry and local
governments. The project runs the risk of inadequate policy reform implementation
because potentially there may be reluctance to confront political pressures not to
implement certain sector policy reforms.
(c)    Exogenous Cost risks. Under proposed sector policy reforms, real price increases for
roundwood will be experienced by the wood processing industry at the same time that
fuel and fuel-related prices are expected to undergo a real price adjustment to reflect
international prices. The Project assumes that the wood industry will adjust its operations
to absorb much of these cost increases though significant improvements in operations
efficiencies and that they would not pass these costs on to the consumers. However these
adjustments require managerial skills and financing for new investments and industrial-
plant rehabilitation. Both these resources are scarce, and therefore the pace of the wood
industries' efficiency adjustments may be slower than the rate of cost increases. An
unequitable transition which passes most of the cost increases on to the consumer could
result in a further dampening of consumer demand for wood products, and therefore for
the demand for roundwood. It wold also reduce Belarus wood industry's international
price competitiveness.
In addition, as wood product prices are viewed by politicians as a significant component
in housing construction costs, political pressure may be brought to bear to again place
wood product prices under price control. This would rnm counter to the underlying
policy reforms on which this Project is built and re-introduce distortions in the wood
markets.
(d)    Demand risk. The Project assumes a reasonable level of sales of smallwood on the
domestic market as fuelwood and as industrial inputs. If the Belarus economic recovery
is at a slower rate than presently anticipated, domestic demand for wood products may
be dampened, and therefore wood sales will be reduced. This could result, in the
extreme, in an ERR of 7%  (para. 5.34), which remains acceptable for forestry
investments predicated primarily on medium- to long-term benefits. However if poor
sales reduce cash flows from wood sales and stumpage, this would also reduce the ability



- 67 -
of MinFin and MinFor to fumd the local cost component on the Project. The Project
scope would then need to be reduced.
The Project assumes a reasonable demand for wood product, and in particular fuelwood.
Any deterioration in short-term growth of the Belarus economy, and therefore a further
erosion of consumer spending power, will decrease the demand for wood products,
dampening open market based opportunities and operations on which the effectiveness of
the proposed sectoral reforms depends.
(e)    Market risk. The Project assumes the effective operation of an open market in wood
in place of the state product allocation system. For this to be effective, present wood and
wood product purchasers would need to obtain working capital to replace the state
allocation rights and to enable them to purchase wood on the proposed open market.
Given the current state of the local financial system, this may prove to be a significant
constraint in the development and effective fiuctioning of the wood industries and
therefore the wood markets. The risks are: (i) an artificially dampening market demand
for wood, and; (ii) that the Wood Exchange will not be successful during its initial
period, and will discourage its initiators from pursuing its effective functioning over the
longer term.
Risks Internal to the Project
(t)   Inadequate Local Financing. GoB is operating under a very tight budget ceiling to
comply with IMF conditionality, and therefore is unwilling to increase budgetary
allocations to MinFor to cover the local costs of this Project. GoB's therefore plans to
finance its contribution to the Project's local costs (US$11.6 million) from real increases
in the stumpage fee. However, if market demand for wood products is lower than
plamned, and if the wood industries face cash constraints because of the inadquac of
their working capital resource, either they will delay payment of the stumpage fees by
increasing their indebtedness to MinFin, or refuse to accept the real increases in the fees
on the grounds that the financial burden places the enterprises at risk. Given the political
sensiuvity of lost industrial workplaces, and therefore the stumpage fee, both scenarios
are realistic, and could result in only insignificant real increases in stumpage revenues
to MinFin. The consequences would be inadequate cash resources to finance the GoB
share of local costs of the Project. The only mitigating actvity could be significant
efforts by BeUlesprom, in conjunction with GKI, to restructure and refinance the major
wood enterprises and to plan for efficiency improvements. However this is not yet
forthcoming, in spite of the fact that the privatization of the BefUesprom enterprises is
high on GoB's priority list. Any decline in the sales of fuelwood (at prices without
GoB's consumer subsidy for fuelwood) will have a similar negative impact on MinFor's
cash flows.
(g)   Implementation Risk. This is the Bank's first investment Project in Belarus. While the
Project is within the management capabilities of the senior staff of MinFor, the
complexities of compliance with Bank procedures for procrement, accounting,
disbursements, etc., will not be easily accomplished. However the proposed staff
training programs to be conducted by the PIU consultants should mitigate these risks.



- 68 -
There remains however a risk of implementation delays in the procurement of consulting
services and equipment. Given the plan to provide a nine month lead period for pre-
implementation preparation and planning ahead of the 1995 silviculture season, this risk
should be manageable.
(h)    MuFor Enterprise Incentives. Initial intensified silviculture operations will be carried
out under MinFor's force account. The implementation plan is ambitious, at about a 33%
increment over MinFor's rayon-level enterprises present annual silviculture maintenance
areas. The appraisal mission and the Project Director-designate have assessed that both
the managerial and the manpower capacity is available at the local level to implement
this program. The mitigating factor provided by the Project would be training at the
local level prior to Project implementation. However, the enabling enviromnent may not
have cianged sufficiently, due to inadequate macro- and sector-policy reforms, to deliver
the incentives for sound management practices.
(i)    Private Sector Development. The Project plans to provide competitive access to the
private sector to harvest contracts that in the past were automatcally assigned to either
MhFor-enterprises or to Bellesprom. If however the private sector contractors do not
emerge during this period of transition, the Project objective of achieving operating
efficiencies through promoting a competitive private sector in forestry services may not
be achieved.



- 69 -
PART VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1          Loan Covenants and Schedules: During Negotiations the following agreements were
included as covenants to the Loan Agreement, or in appropriate Schedules to the Loan Agreement:
(a)   that by December 31, 1994, GoB would issue relevant decrees and regulations to firther
facilitate the liberalization of international trade in wood end wood products in a manner
agreed between GoB and the Bank (para. 3.12)
(b)   that by December 31, 1994, relevant decrees and regulations, agreed between GoB and
the Bank, would be issued by GoB for the further liberalization of the domestic wood
market in wood and wood products, except for procurement of such products required
under the State Order system (para. 3.15);
(c)   that the "wood market facility" would be established by GoB, before the end of 1994,
under Articles of Association, regulations and operating policies agreed between GoB and
the Bank (para. 3.16);
(d)   on the establishment, by October 31, 1994, of a stumpage and royalty policy agreed
between GoB and the Bank, for implementation beginning January 1, 1995 (para. 3.19);
(e)   that procurement procedures for all goods, civil works and consultant services would be
applied in accordance with Bank guidelines and that progress reports would include
monitoring of the various aggregate amounts and ceilings (para. 3.56);
(f)    on the terms and conditions for the operations of the Special Account (para. 3.62);
(g)   on the establishment of separate Project accounts and the appointment of exteral auditors
(para. 4.35); and
(h)   that the ammal audit of the Project's accounts would be competed and the final annual
audit report delivered by the external auditors, through the PIU to the Bank, no later than
the end of March each year, for the previous year's accounts (para. 4.37).
7.2          Project Implementation Schedule: During Negotiations a specificProject Implementation
Schedule to the Loan Agreement was agreed which include the following activities, with agreed dates,
as follows:
(a)   that GoB would prepare a detailed implementation program for sector economic reforms
by May 1, 1995 (para. 3.5);
(b)   that GoB would update this implementation plan annually by May 1 of each year, for the
following twelve month period, based on the results of the previously implemented
reform measures, in coordination and in a manner acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11 );



- 70-
(c)   by the end of 1994, simplify requirements, regulations and practices for business licenses
and registration for forestry and wood industries enterprises and contractors (para. 3.21);
(d)   a timetable, to be presented to, and agreed with the Bank before the end of 1994, for the
implementation of pre-privatization assistance by relevant GoB agencies for the
commercialization and subsequent privatization of the wood processing industries. This
would include the determination of GoB of the applicability of the proposed voucher
system to the these enterprises, and the application of GoB's new corporate governance
standards to these enterprises (para. 3.22);
(e)   that within three months after the completion of the FSP (i.e. at about the mid-term of
the project), GoB would present to the Bank its plan for MinFor's strengthened role in
regulation and enforcement for forestry practices and environmental protection, and GoB
would present an implementation plan for these improved regulatory practices for
agreement between the Bank and GoB (para. 3.69);
(f)   that a preliminary Project implementation plans would be completed and agreed with the
Bank before November 1, 1994, a detailed plan presented by May 1, 1995, and that
revise annual plan, prepared in consultation with the Bank, would be presented annual
by May I of each subsequent year. This plan would form the basis for Project
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and the PCR (paras 2.43, 4.4, and 4.42);
(g)   that the final ToR for the FSP would be provided to the Bank for approval by June 30,
1994, and the FSP consultants selected and appointed by September 30, 1994 (pam.
4.16);
(h)   that the work plan and budget for the FMIS development and the hardware purchases be
submitted to the Bank for comments and approval before November 30, 1994 (pam.
4.20);
(i)   that MinFor's Scientific and Technical Council would review the proposed annual
research programs to be contracted by MinFor, the achievements under the past year's
contracts, and the amual budgets to be submitted by the research contractors to MinFor
and the PIU for support within the framework of the Project, and with the approval of
the Bank, not later than November 1 of each year (para. 4.21);
(j)   on the establishment of the Prototype Fund, by December 1, 1994, for operations as
agreed between GoB and the Bank, and that the relevant documents would be submitted
to the Bank before September 30, 1994 for this approval (pam. 4.26 et seq.); and
(k)   that the anmnal training program for MinFor and Bellesporm forest enterprises and the
private sector Contractors would be submitted by MinFor to the Bank for approval not
later than June 30 of the preceding year (para. 4.31).



- 71 -
7.3          Understandns reached: During Negotiations the following understandings were
reached, and assurances obtained, as amplification of the covenants and schedules:
(a)   that GoB recognized the necessity to deepen the implementation of the liberalization of
interrational trade reforms instituted under the agreements reached through the
RehabilitatioD Lean, through facilitation measures such as the simplification of trade
and trade financt. documentation. Furtier, GoB pledged its cooperation with the Bank
in studying these questions during the preparation of the proposed Private Enterprise
Development Loan, and agreed to consider simplification measures once the results of
this study have been reviewed (para.3. 12);
(b)   that access to the domestic market by non-residents was not in any way restricted and that
such buyers did not face discriminatory taxation, and that such non-resident buyers are
free to export their purchasers, provided they have satisfied the foreign exchange control
requirements (para. 3.14);
(c)   that the application of the new State Procurement System (as agreed under the
Rehabilitation Loan) would result in wood and wood product procurement by the State
at market prices (para. 3.15);
(d)   that for the establishment of the formal wood -market facility," GoB would find an
appropnate legal structure for this market under which GoB's exchange taxes would not
be applicable (para. 3.17);
(e)   that the new Forest Law, presently before the Parliament, establishes the State's sole
right to the nation's wood resources and that, after passage of this law, GoB will
promlgate enabling regulations to establish (i) MinFor as its agent for the market
disposition of the State's wood resources under MinFor's management, and (ii) the
State's full rights of use of all funds so generated (para. 3.18);
(f)    that the Bank considered a royalty fee of between 2 and 5% of gross annual MinFor
wood sale revenues to be a reasonable level; that the royalty fees should be payable to
the national treasury only at the point of the first transfer of ownership from MinFor;
and that for those wood products on which a royalty fee is charged, no stumpage is
payable and visa versa (para. 3.19);
(g) that certain anmnual MinFor costsm were not expected to be recovered from the stumpage
fee, and would continue to be funded from the national budget; and that the target
theoretical total stumpage revenue would be that amount required to fully recover the
annual operating costs of MinFor's commercial silviculture operations, if recovered from
the theoretical annual total harvest (para. 3.20);
64.   e.g. costs to be recovered, or only partially recovered, would be those legitimate "national" expenditures
such as emergency and disaster expenditurs (fires, floods, Chernobyl amelioration, etc.), afforestation of
new lands, conservation and protection, etc.



- 72 -
(h)   that import duties and all other taxes on all project imports and all other taxes due to
GoB from the expenditures of the project, be made available to MinFor, and budgeted
by MinFin, in addition to MinFor's normal annual budget, and that contracts with foreign
nationals and foreign legal persons where local taxes on income are to be paid to GoB,
that MinFor will be provided with the local currency by MinFin for the payment of these
taxes (para. 3.55);
(i)   that the ToRs for EAs and ERs would be agreed upon between MinFor and Min-Nat
before being submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 3.77);
(j)    on the local staff composition of the PIU (para. 4.8);
(k)   on the administration of the various sub-components of the Wetlands program (para.
4.13);
(1)    on the ri-k-exposure limits of the Prototype Fund, its mode of operations, the nature of
the agreements with potential research and industrial partners, including these partners
financial contributions (para. 4.26 et seq.);
(m)   that Project Evaluation, and the responsibility for the Project Completion Report would
be the task of the Ministry of Forestry, utilizing among others the expertise and data of
the PIU (para. 4.34);
(n)    on MinFin's participation with the Bank in a Mid-term Review of the Project, to be held
no later than three months after completion of the FSP, and to be preceded by GoB
decisions on its forestry strategy for the next decade, which strategy statement would also
be a subject of the MTR (para. 4.43).
7.4          Conditions of Loan Effectiveness. Agreement was reached at Negotiation that the
following would be conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a)   the appointment of international consultants for Procurement and Project management
(para. 4.8); and
(b)   appointment of the local staff to the PIUJ, including the Project Director and Project
Manager acceptable to the Bar:, and that the local budget for 1994 for the project has
been approved and transferred by MinFin to MinFor's accounts (para 4.8).
7.5          CondWtions of Disbursement. Agreement will be sought at Negotiation that the following
will be conditions of disbursement of component funds:
(a)   for Disbursement Category 4: prior agreement with the Bank on the standard unit cost
of silviculture operations;
(b)   for Disbursement Categories 5.1: prior to approval by GoB of the annual program
acceptable to the Bank;



- 73 -
(c)   for Disbursement Categories 5.2: prior to the approval of the Bank of the work plan for
the budget and related hardware purchases;
(d)   for Disbursement Categories 5.3: prior to the approval by MinFor's Scientific and
Technical Council of the annual research program, with expenditures agreed between
GoB and the Bank, including the contributions of GoB from specified budgetary sources;
(e)   for Disbursement Categories S.4: prior to the establishment of the Prototype Fund, as
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.66).
7.6          Recoendation On the basis of the above listed agreements reached with GoB, and
the staff appraisal, the Project is recommended for a Bank loan, to the Republic of Belarus, of US$41.9
million for 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



Statfsstiat AppendoK
page I of 2
BELARUS: FORESTRY STATISTICS
Table 1: Distribution of Forest Lands
'000 ha       %
Ministry of Forestry           6,739      84%
Koichozes and Sovchozes          520       6%
Ministry of Defense              369       5%
NaUonal Parks                    356       4%
R&D, Education, & Local
Authorities                       76       1%
TOTAL                8,054     100%
Table 2: Land Managed by MinFor
C00 ha      %
Closed Forest                  6,482    96.2%
Area under regeneration          138      2.1%
Clear cut area                    87      1.3%
Medows inside forests             20      0.3%
Nurseries                          4      0.1%
Open forests                       1      0.0%
Dead forests (fires, etc.)         6      0.1%
TOTAL                6,739   100.0%
Table 3: MinFor Forests by Function & Protection Level
Level of Protecbon/Restrictions
('000ha)           Severe    Partiai    Not
Restrictions Restrictions Restricted    Total  %
Commercial Forests               425               4,246      4,670      69%
Urban Greer. belts               285       660                 945       14%
Road and Rail Protection         136       538                 673       10%
Rivers and Lakes Protection       43       352                 395        6%
Small forest reserves             55                            55        1%
Scientific Areas, historic sites, etc  1                          1       0%
943     1,550     4,246     6,739     100%
14%      23%       63%       100%
(*) all information based on 10-year Inventory carried out In 1988:
adjusted to 1992



Statistcal Appendix
page 2 of 2
BELARUS: FORESTRY STATISTICS (contd.) *
Table 4: Species and Age Distribution
('000 ha)
Aoe Class:     1-20    21-40    41-60       614-0      s +      Total        %
Pine                             753     1,361     1,214       410        78     3,815      58%
Spruce                           179       183      280         83         9       734      11%
Larch                                                0.1                             0       0%
Oak                               53       80        59         40        17       249       4%
Hombeam                          0.1         1       10        0.4       0.2        12       0%
Ash                                3        9         6         0.4      0.1        19       0%
Birch                            115      159       765         52        11     1,102      17%
Aspen                             19        19       38         30        24       130       2%
Alder                             71       99       287         78        21       556       8%
Other broadleaves                           2         3        0.1       0.3         5       0%
1,193    1,912     2,662       695       160     6,622     100%
18%      29%       40%        10%       2%    100.0%
Table 5: Stnding Stock by Species
(million m3)
Aqe Class:     1-20    21-40    41-60       61-80      80 +     Total
Pine                           27.85    159.71    221.35     79.74     14.01    502.67      57%
Spruce                          5.16     25.08     69.13     22.08      2.48    123.94      14%
Larch                                               0.01                          0.01       0%
Oak                             1.61      7.32     10.49       8.25     3.43     31.11       4%
Hombeam                         0.00      0.04      1.16      0.07      0.02      1.29       0%
Ash                             0.12      1.17      1.25       0.10     0.02      2.66       0%
Birch                           1.80      9.94    113.62      10.23     1.91    137.50      15%
Aspen                           0.24      1.46      5.25       5.76     5.69     18.41       2%
Alder                           0.36      5.70     42.42      16.13     4.73     69.35       8%
Other broadleaves                         0.14      0.28       0.01     0.06      0.49       0%
37.15    210.57    464.96    142.37     32.36    887.42    100%
4%      24%       52%        16%        4%      100%
Table 6: Standing Stock Densit by Species and Age
(m3/ha)
Ace Class:     1-20    21-40    41-60       61-80      80+ Averaae  % Relitve
Pine                              37      117       182        194       180       132      98%
Spruce                            29       137      246        267       265       169     126%
Larch                                               100                            100      75%
Oak                               30       91       178        205       206       125      93%
Hombeam                            0       44       112        150       100       106      79%
Ash                               35       133      213        225       200       143     106%
Birch                             16       63       148        196       177       125      93%
Aspen                             13       79       140        190       237       142     106%
Alder                              5       57       148        206       226       125      93%
Other broadleaves                          81       104        100       167       100      75%
Total                 34       122       193        226      223       134      100%
% Relative to Averase       26%      91%      144%       169%      166%      100%
() all infomnaton based on 10-year Inventory carried out in 1988:
adJusted to 1992



ANNEX 1
page 1 of 3
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 1: Selected Docmnents in the Project File
Volume I. Apprisal Working Papers
1.    Forestry Subsector Review (Frangois Wenc6lius)
2.    Wood Production and Utilization (Pietros Kidane)
3.    Wood Harvesting and Transport (lMati Kirkkainen)
3a.   Private Sector Development in Harvesting
4.    Intensified Silviculture (Louis Carbonnier)
5.    Seeds Facility
5a.   Forest Tree Seed Centers in Belarus: Speification of Tene kngs
(Finnish Forest and Park Service)
6.    Forest Fire Protection
6a.   Assessi  ne State of Forest Fire Protection in the Republic of Belarus - June 1993
(Canadian interagency Forest Fire Centre, Canada)
6b.   MinFor Budget Submission
7.    Air Pollution Monitoring
7a. ,Ecological Monitorine of Forests in Belarus: Results of a Project Evaluation Mission.
(Bavarian State Institute for Forestry and Forest Economy)
7b.   ICP - 1992 report
7c.   Forest Climate Centers (Bavariaa State Institute for Forestry and Forest Economy)
8.    Forest Information Management System (Louis Carbonnier)
9.    Forestry Research and Forestry Education Program (Stig Hagner)
9a.   Forest Research Institute: Budget and Research Program Submission
10.   Envirorunmental Assessments and Reviews
lOa.  Belarus: Forest Development Project: Enviromnent Review (Euroconsult,
Netherlands)
lOb. Belarus: Environmental Review of Forested Wetlands (International Waterfowl
and Wetlands Research Bureau, UK, in cooperation with Ministry of
Environment, National Forest and Nature Agency, Denmark)



A-EX I
page 2 of 3
lOc. Environmental Assessment of RadioLIogal Consequences for Forestrv in
Contaminated Areas of the Republic of Belarus (AECL Research, Canada)
11.   Wood Market Assessment (Karl H. Kehr)
12.   Terms of Reference
12a.  Forestry Strategic Plan T.A.
12b. Procurement T. A.
12c.  Project Management T. A.
12d.  PMIS T.A.
Vohnne H: Project Preparaion Working Papers (Government of Belarus)
1.   Note on the Development and Intensification of the Improvement Fellings in Belarus Forests
2.    Organizational Chart - Council of Ministers of Belarus
3.   Creation of the Seed Selection Center
4.    Measures Relating to the Development of the Investment Project of the World Bank for
Timber Management and the Woodworking Industry
5.   Labor Resources of the Republic of Belarus
6.   Belarus Forestry Informational System Implementation Program
7.   Chart - Structure of the Informational "Forest Resources" Databases
8.   Council of Ministers - Monitoring System & Plan of Realization
9.   The Proposal of Minsk Kirov Technological University
10.   Improvement and Development of Personnel Training for the Forest Complex of Belarus and
Strengthening the Material Base of the Belamus Technological Institute (BTI)
11.   Timber Trade - Summary of Interrepublic Commerce (Imports and Exports) as Concerns
Wood and Product Made from Wood, Including Funiture
12. Ministry of Finance ltr. N. 05-1/279 dated May 11, 1993 (comments on paragraph 9 -
Commission of the Council of Ministers)
13.   General State of the Economy of the Paper and Pulp Sector of Industry
14.   Explanatory Note to the Anmal Report of the belarus Republic Ministry of Forestry on Their
Activities in 1992



A1
page 3 of 3
15.   Measures and Activities Concerning the Preparation of World Bank Investment Project in
Forestry Sector
16.   Explanatory Note to the Project for Creaing an Automated System of Forest Fires Detection
17.   Ministry of Energy Itr. N. 03/656 dated April 6, 1993 on Fuelwood



ANNEX 2
page 1 of 14
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 2: Forestry Sector Policy Reform - hnplementation Timetable
Introduction
1.    The agreements on economic policy reforms reached by the Government of Belams and the
International Monetary fund (under the ST) and the World Bank (under the Rehabilitation Loan) provides
the basis for policy reform implementation at the sectoral level. There is no longer a question of "if" or
"what reforms", but now the focus shifts to "how and when." This paper presents the initial proposals
for the implementation timetable for the minima reforms for the forestry sector. The specific sector
policy reforms were presented to the Government in June 1993 in the form of a policy matrix
(Attachment 1).
2.    It should be noted that in addition to the overall policy reform agreement, the Government has
place the wood industries high on the list of priority sectors to be privatized.
Policy Reforms
3.     The six areas of reform proposed as high priority for the forestry sector are as follows:
*     Increases in the Stunpage Fees
*     Increased comptitiveness in harvesting and the creation of private sector
harvesting companies
*     increasing competition in the marketing of standing timber and harvested logs
*     removal of price and profit controls on wood and wood products
*     removal of all export controls for timber, and removal of export taxes on timber
and wood products, excet on those items (if any) where administerd prices will
remain in force
*     removal of product allocation and state order system.
All six of these sector-specific reforms are inter-related and need to be implemented under an integrated,
phased and complementary schedule.
Timig
4.    The overall time-frame for the implementation of these reforms is 1993 to 1996. This
corresponds to the start-up of the proposed Forestry Development Project, and includes in 1993 the
announcements to the public and in particular to the wood industry the full extent and the implications
of all the proposed reforms. There are three subgroups of reforms based on the timing as shown on the
table following:



AN-N 2
page 2 of 14
Sub-Group               | Policy Reform               | Commencement date
I   ONGOING                   Stumage Fee Adjustment        1/94 and quarterly
thereafter
II  IMMEDIATE                 Price and Profit Controls     1/94
Allocations and State Orders  1/94
Liberalized wood exports and  1/94
imports; neutral trade regime.
Im   PHASED                   Coaipetitive harvesting        1/95 (pilot)
1/96 (regional)
______________________     _ .1/97   (national)
Wood market competition       1/95 (pilot)
1/96 (regional)
1/97 (national)
Detailed Implementaion Program
Subgroup I - Ongoing:.
Stume Fees Adjustment
5.    The objective of this reform is to remove the subsidy element to both the wood industry and to
the Ministry of Forestry that has resulted for the pricing of standing wood far below its economic and
commercial value.
6.    To increase immediately the stumpage fees tot he full commercial value of the standing timber
would created too much of a price shock to the wood processing industry. The industry needs time to
adjust its operations and to increase its operating and utilization efficiency to adequately absorb the costs
increases without fWlly passing these costs in to the consumers.
7.    The wood industries will need to invest in equipment to improve efficiency, both to counter the
increased in fuel and electricity costs (through the introduction of energy conservation investment) and
the increased wood costs (better utilization, less waste, better quality control, changed processes, better
waste utilization, etc.). At the same time management sldlls and labor-efficiency will have to be
improved. There are savings to be made in the reorganization of the wood yards, the correct selection
of equipment, the better management of the labor force, improved safety and work conditions, etc.,
improved product design, introduction of new products etc.
8.    It should be noted that the privatization of the wood industries, the introduction of competition



ANNEX 2
page 3 of 14
in the wood markets and in harvesting will be complementary actions to ensure the competitiveness of
the wood industries and there cost effectiveness.
9.    It is therefore proposed that the target stumpage fees to be announced in late 1993 together with
the explanation of the future stumpage policy. This target fee - the full economic value of standing wood
-- should be achieved through the gradual real price increases over the next three (broadleaf species) to
five years (conifers). In the interim it is proposed that the stumpage fee be increased in both nominal
and real terms once every three months (to allow for inflation compensation), by preannounced real
increase steps. The actual increase will also need to be adjusted for inflation.
10.   In addition it is proposed that a stumpage fee be introduced for immature woods removed during
thinnings, and that this fee be based in the commercial value by age class or size. This will become
increasingly important as smallwood attains a commercial uses and value through the introduction of
processing facilities and through the development of the export markets for pulpwood.
11.   The introduction of quarterly adjusted stumpage fees will also require a change in administration
of the assessment and collection of the stumpage fees. Presendy stands are allocated on an anmnal basis
to harvesters/processors, mostly Bellesprom enterprises. Bellesprom and other harvesters/processors pay
the stumpage fee at some undefined time after harvest. This has resulted in a very significant reduction
in the value of the stumpage fees collected by the national treasury as a result of inflation erosion.
12.   From January 1994 it is proposed that:
a)    harvested blocks continue to be allocated on an anmual basis;
b)    the harvester, at thk time of allocation, provides MinFor with a quarterly harvest plan;
c)    the harvester pays the stumpage fees, at the stumpage rate for that quarter, directly to the
stumnmae account at the National Bank at the end of each quarter, in accordance with that
quarter's harvest plan,and the amounts in the BELGOSLES inventory for that stand, and
IRRESPECTIVE of actual harvest;'
d)    non-payment of quarterly stumpage fees on time automatically results in cancellation of
harvest rights on all allocated blocks, and there return to MinFor for disposal to another
harvester/processor;
e)    MinFor is responsible for reporting on expected and actual stumpage fees to the national
treasury, also on a quarterly basis;
f)    non-completion of the annual plan by a harvester will result in the either cancellation of
the stand allocation, or reduced allocation for the next year. As the stumpage fee for the
non-harvested stand would already have been paid, this would be forfeited as a fine for
non-performance, or if the stand is harvested within the first quarter of the next year, not
forfeited.
13.   This proposed plan will require an increased and more active MinFor inspection function of
harvesting activities, and will demand an more accurate BELGOSLES stand inventory to ensure the
minimizaion of discrepancies between actual volumes and quality of timber and those stated in the
including the case where the harvester has not harvested that stand, or has not completed the
harvesting. Payment of stumpage, therefore, would no longer be inked to the actual harvest activity, but
becomes a payment for the right to harvest.



ANNEX 2
page 4 of 14
inventory. The quality target should be no more than a 5% discrepancy, while today it is reported that
the inventory inaccuracy is as much as 20%. This is especially serious of the high value timber stands,
even though they make up only a small part of the amual harvest.
14.   Related golia: all the increased revenues from stunpage should be allocated to the annual
operating and investment budget of the Ministry of Forestry. It is the itention that withi the five year
period that the Ministry of Forestry activities should be full funded from the annal stumpage revenues
and revenues from sales of wood and wood products. There could be a surplus from these revenues that
could be used for:
a)    the creation of national fund for forest fire and other natural disasters (e.g flooding);
b)    contributions of forestry R&D and forestry education; and
c)    general contributions to the state and local budgets.
Subgroup I - mmedlate:
15. The three reforms in this sub-group should be announced to the public and the wood industry as
early as possible in the last quarter of 1993 so that the enterprises in particular can make their plans and
necessary adjustments to be ready for 1994.
A:    Price and profit controls
16. There is little justification for considering wood and wood products to be strategic items requiring
price or profit controls. While the policy was already in existence in 1993 that there should be no price
controls on these products, in fact the controls remained, often imposed at the regional and district level.
17.   It is proposed therefore that before the end of 1993 a specific decree be issued covering all wood
products that removed all these controls, and prevents the local authorities for imposing such controls.
18.   However, there remains the social issue of the price for fuel wood. This needs to be dealt with
within the context of the social safety net for vulnerable groups, and the financing (subsidies) provided
to the Ministry of Forestry's local enterprises for the subsidized sale of firewood ONLY to those eligible
under the social safety net program. The details of the management of the fuelwood component should
be included in the proposed decree.
19.   In the explanatory efforts that have been suggested that the Government undrtakes to explain the
new sectoral policies, it should be stated that there is an expected price increase in wood products due
to the increases in fuel and standing wood prices. However the goverriient should also state that it
expects the wood processing companies to improve there efficiency and not to pass all the price increases
onto the consumers.
B:    Allocations aO.SaeOders
20.   As of Jamnary 1 1994 all wood processing enterprises should be free to produce what ever product
they choose and to sell to whomever they choose (see later on export liberalization). All these state
enterprises that had expected to receive allocation of wood and wood products should therefore be given
the tie in the latter part of 1993 to reorganize themselves to enter the wood market as active purcss



page 5 of 14
as of the beginning of the new year. Similarly all the wood enterprises should now begin to organize
their marketing/sale departments, as they will no longer have 'captive customers."
C:    Timber and Wood Products Export and Import Liberalization
21.   All restrictions on roundwood, cut timber and wood products exports and imports should be lifted
as of January 1, 1994. Licenses should not be required. The Government therefore needs during the
next three months to review all docmentaion requement hat pre-suppose the existence of an export
license, and to remove these requirements. For wood products a reduction in the export tariffs should
be immediately put in place, in line with the general agreement on tariff reforms.
22.   It is to be anticipated that there will be criticism that Belarus should not be exporting its scarce
wood resourmces. However the findameals of the econonic reform is based on open market trading.
The removal of price controls and the product allocation system will simultaneously permit the market
to adjust supplies to satis  market demands. There wil in general, after a short period of market
adjustment, be no shortage of wood or wood products in the local markets. Prices will be higher than
today, but that will reflect the adjustment to the real economic value of wood, and the opportunities in
neighboring markets.
23.   Liberalized wood imports, and estabishng a neutral trade regime that does not protect the local
wooaindustry from competition from imports-all to be in place by the beginning of 1994, wi be
e-sential tO ensure that the market remains adequately supplied with product and does not suffer from
artificial shortages.
Sub-oup m  - Phased:
24. Both items in this sub-group require the development of entrepreneurs and market structures.
They also require testing of systems of management by the Ministry of Forestry and other wood
enterprises, therefore it is recommended that these reforms be phased in three steps: Pilot; Regional; and
National at yearly intervals.
25.   Both reforms are closely related: the introduction of contract harvesting on behalf of the Ministry
of Forestry implies sale of assortments at roadside. Therefore the mechanism of the marketing of
assortnents has to be developed, together with the assurance that there will be competition at these
markets. The development of the privatization of Bellesprom enterprises also plays a crucial role in the
development of the competitive market place. So does the development of new wood industries
(hopefully to be financed under the EBRD project).
A:    Contract Harvesting Development
26. For the beginning of January 1995, the Ministry of Forestry should select at least three rayon
in the three non-Chernobyl oblasts. In these three rayon that would for 1995 n_o allocate standing wood
blocks to th 'ocal Bellesprom entrpris. Instead they would announce a harvesting program of stands,
including the details of the wood inventories of those stands, and call for harvesting contractors to provide
MinFor with bids on the cost of harvestiDng of selected stands.



ANNEX 2
page 6 of 14
27.   The rayons chosen should preferably be those where there is more than one wood processing
industry operating (Bellesprom, MinFor and other private enterprises), where there are a good number
of wood enterprises in the neighboring rayons. Also for the selected rayons there should be established
harvesting companies or groups (i.e. parts of a Bellesprom or MinFor complex), or a suitable number
of such companies in neighboring rayon's all of whom would wish to place bids. The companies'
harvesting capacity should be larger than the wood volume to be harvested.
28.   MinFor would manage the contract harvesting, if necessary leasing the contractor machinery from
MinFor's machinery pool. The Contractors would need to be pre-qualified, and prove that they have had
training in harvesting and understand the silvicultural conditions and standards to be met, including all
the environmental safeguards, post-harvest site preparation. etc.
29.   To be pre-qualify to be a harvest contractor, the site managers of the harvesting company would
have had to attend a harvesting course, and to have passed the qualifying examinations. This course
would be provided by MinFor, possible through Kirov institute or with foreign experts, in mid-to-late
1994, fimded under the World Bank project.
30.   MinFor would also train its enterprise staff in harvesting management, and also in harvesting
inspection. MinFor would increase its activities in on-site inspection of harvesting, while the harvesting
is in progress, as well as the inspection upon completion. MinFor would also provide the supervision
staff for the management of the road-side assortment site, but the assortment and selection would be the
responsibility of the harvesting contractor.2
31.   For 1996, with adjustments to the procedures, two of the three oblasts where pilots were held
would in their totality come under this system. That means that no standing wood allocations would be
made to Bellesprom or any other concern in the oblasts in that year, or in the future.
32.   Training for potential harvesting contractors wold be held in these oblasts in mid to late 1995,
to ensure an adequate number of pre-qualified contractors. Arrangements would be put into place for
leasing of equipment if this is necessary.
33.   In a similar way in 1997 the system would be applied to the entire country, with training courses
in the latter part of 1996.
34.   Consequendy at the beginning of 1997 no firther allocations of standing wood would be made
to any concern or enterprise for their own harvesting and processing. MinFor would manage all clear
felling at all sites, through the operations of harvesting contractors.
35.   Under this system of contracted harvesting, MinFor would also achieve the harvesting of difficult
sites. But for these it would have to negotiate a harvest cost with the contractors, as it wold be unlikely
that there would be a willingness to bid if easier sites were also on offer. In addition, for difficult and
especially remote site, it may be necessary to occur additional costs of terrain or road transport of the
assortments to a more convenient road-side market site. MinFor would have to recover the higher cost
2  MinFor would manage roadside sales and the supervision of ttansport conaors



ANNX
page 7 of 14
of harvesting of these sites through the correct site-class adjustment of the stunpage fee.
B:    Establishing Comnpetitive Roundwood Markets
36.   Those enterprises that normally would have had wood allocated to them either under the allocation
system, or through the allocation of standing wood to Bellesprom, would now have the opportunity to
buy roundwood at roadside in a regular basis.
37.   MinFor can choose to sell at roadside at announced prices (the minimum would be stumwage +
harvesting cost), or for the high value tinber, at auction. at the very least pilot auctions for hardwoods
should be started in 1995.
38.   Under this system of road-side sales MinFor would be responsible to pay the stumpage to the
Treasury.
39.   MinFor can add to these roadside markets smallwood, pulpwood and fuelwood from its own
thinnings of the forests. It shoild be noted that, with the liberalization of exports, these markets would
also be a source of supply for wood exporters.
40.   In parallel to the establishment of the roadside markets MinFor would inform all wood buyers
as early as mid 1994 that it would be their responsibility to transport wood from the road side from 1995
onwards in the pilot areas, and from 1996 onwards in the selection oblasts, and 1997 nation-wide. This
should encourage the emergence of new wood transport enterprises.



BELARUS: POLICY MATRIX - FORESTRY SECTOR
PoUcy Issues                  Effect on the Industry                          Objecives                                    Proposed Actis
1. Low          - Inadequate returns to investments in forestty       - Increas of stumpage fees in   - Determine a system for calculating reasonable increases of the
stumpage      - ladequate revenue to de  easury                      l terms                     stumpage fees
fees           Reduced budget allocation to MinFor                                                - Establish a timetable for doie inplnenion of he chosen system
- Limied maintenance of existing  ress and
reinvestment
2. Lack d       - Monopoly in the harvesting by BELLESPROM and        - Atain cost effetive         - Establishment of independent profd based logging companies
compettidve    MinFor enterprises                                   harvesig practices            - Establishment of competitive logging system
haresting     - low productivity
- lack of ineentive to improve productivity
- lack of incentive to adopt cost effective technlotgy
3. Lack of      - Monopoly in wood purchase and processing by         - Attain competitive purchas  - Promote the establishment of new private sector based industry
competitive    BELLESPROM and MinFor enterprises                    within the industy            - Initiate the planned privaEization of public enterprises
sale of logs    - Limking the sale of logs within the regin of production  - Create basis for increase  - Allow entry of private sector enterprises to purchase and process
stumpage fees                 wood
- Permit the sale of logs nation wide under an auction system, and to
|____________________________  exporters
4. Price and    - Price control on fuetwood and some construction     - Avoid distortion in tde     - Phasing out of price and profit controls
profit        material following the rulings of regional authorities  market and shortage of goods   - Policy of *Social Safety Net' for fiselwood for economically
controls      - Profit controls                                     - Avoid disincentives         vulnerable groups
S. Export       - Requirement of permission or license to export, which    - Allow enterprises to realize    - Phasing out of licensing system
controls and  is an arbitrary and complex process                   better prices for their goods  - Phasing out government interference in determining barter items
excessive     - Interference by Government in barter agreements by  - Avoid market distortion     - Establish neutral regime of trade to avoid negative protection and
duties        imposing some items as required consigmenes           - Avoid disincetive to export    disincentive to export
- High duties in the form of straight payment, provision                           - Remove excessive duties to reduce barter trade
of below market exchange rate and approprition of the                              - Remove restricktns on export of roundwood
bulk of the foreign exchange, hence encouraging barter
trade                                                _       ___                                                  _
6. Production    - Interference in enterprises' production plan       - Attain fidl decision naking  - Phasing out compulsory production and sale of some commodities
allocation    - Utiliation of limited inputs (including imported ones)    by enterprises
ntuction    to produce non priority commodities to the enterprises
Go 
0 c
R f
_ b 



CONCORDANCE:
REHABILITATION LOAN MACRO-POLICY REFORMS
and
FORESTRY SECTOR POLICY REFORM TlMErABLE
_ ~Rs. I4~   -                                    -.~                                        . . 
Sfor Puelwood         29l sevoes                               by3Xb41        93*,        md 94eiino  l rie(iFn   iFr  oa
Ditriuton         (12 to 19)j______                                                                      ____ ______
A.1:    Price                     31          (i) Prices mostly         cot. ue to adjust prices in I(i)adionl        i)b so  ffdwd049   sumcst
Liberalization        (12.13)        liberalized, widh        lIne with comsts after                                   ofoe  ne eeg prielwo  04e94t(asuracea
and Subsidies                        exception of basic foods.  increase for cost-recovery    price chanes by   liberaliation polices; (ii)
for PUciwood                         communal services.        by 30% by end 1993(*),     mid 1994           elimination of ali price     (MinFin. MinFor. Local
public utapot, and       inclding passing through    (i0) elimination of   controls on fuelwood; (Wii)  Audtorities)
energy products; (i)     of full energy cost        most crossw        asranemeats for fudewood
subsidized fuel-oil and  increases to cosumers(*),   subsidies for     supplies and priecs for
diesel restried to       eliminate fuel coss-       electicity by      vulnerable groups to be
agriculture N            subsdies by end 1993       mid-1994 and for   adminitered under social
subsidized gasoline for                             fuels by end-     safety-net program
bouseholds                                          1993
A.2:    Monopolistic            37, 39        price restricdons and     reduce number of listed    end 1993, and     removal of all Bellesprom     assurances at negotons
Producers               (15)         ceilings .u profit margins   'monopolistic producers"  end 1994        enterprises from list of natral
limied to -monopolistic    by 50% by end 1993(*),                      monopolies (effectively to   (MinFin.)
Vproduccs                and establish lmed list by                   remove profit controls)
end 1994 for only utites
And *nral monles"                                 _ _
B   i
*        Benchak of IMP SIP progam



A.3:    Pxkco                    38                                     0 (i) edmimin of ceifins   01/94             explick eliinton of conrols  04194 (condiion of Board
Resiictions on        (16,17)                                  on  _ nEu   d profit    06194                over wood traders and wood    Presentation)
Traders                                                        margins on etils   by                         distbution
01/94; (A) elmion of                                                             m owltonomplan)
similr restrictions on
wholesalers ohr dtaa
.hose with dominant
matt posion by mid-
1994                                          _      _      _      _
A.4:    Local auhortdes          40           local authodttes curedy   loca autoites wiI be        same schedue     coaaon, Icudg i               04194 (conditi  of
dbempoerm               (I8)          set price restictons (ad    requird to elbma aU     as dtose of        necesary Decree publicaon.   effectveness)
on prices.                           dbutdon consin)           crows  sbs        on so    communal           tat felwood prices and
niset  contls                        for solid fuels (incug    fues for hood  use         services          distbon control autoty        (      f      . Minisy
and pduct                            fuetwood)                 (inclug helwood)                             wil be removed from toca      of LOCal  ovnment)
alocadons                                                               _                                   aurities
AS:    Abolishment of             41          Sta  Orders w             (i) by ed 1993 elimon    lslaton to be    (I) Ideiaon of wood              04/94
Ste Older               (19)         reuce in 1993 fro         of Sta Odens for all       itoduced to       volurns for 1994, 1995.
30% to 17% of domestic   prduin exe  that           Supreme ovi       cored by bilaterl             (MZbib or, 
out                      required to hf bilae       Spri  94           eg;ment; (if) eplicihinisy of                   ,
trade arm       ad                                      t i oall Wood       ainsy of Local
Goemeas own needs;                            ro dcts c r   edelia  ob r a owenmu
(II) intoduclie Of                           GBprooemmut for -mea
lesislation forc conytiiv                    aeed; (MI) asgreemen io
gme  cmnr                                    ewubllasme  of Wood
Balag. id an of pIe
e         foh_c  hr Gas wood
(Iv anebuto *gme a"n
Gimetsyte  wit m*aw
psledsaridotio.nles by
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p__ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   filno    an    is pu s_
a^_"--~~~



page lt ofl14
s               A~U
M--W~~



A~NNEX2
page 12 of 14
jil 2
*1 .,..                j
a:;      ! l~~~~~~~~.
MlD   _  glt}lgiStl0
is  _  mlOg~~~~
g~~ J =XB



D:      Corporate
Governwce
and
PrlvtlzatLon of
State-owned
Enterprlses _s_                                                                                    _        _______,=
D.1:    Improved               66,67,71        (i) reduction of credit  (i) improved transparency    mid 1994 for    application and adaptation of    1994-1997
Corporate            (32,33,34)       subsidies, and removal    in GoB transfers to state  application of    principles established for large
Governance in                         of tax-credits;          enterprises                standard charter    state entcrprises to MinFor  (MinForlFSP/GRI)
MinFor                                (ii) policies for improved   (ii) simplification of  to 10 largest state  rmyon-level enterprises
enterprises                           accountability;          repoi'ting to develop      enterprises and
(iii)approved standard   management information     10 volunteer
chater and regulations   tools;                     companies, and
for sta  corporations    (ii) uniform revised       their
accounting rules.          transformation to
joint-stock
companies
D.2:    Pre-privatization        64           end 1993 GKI prepare      (i) process of privatkation    1994-1997     (i) determine applicability of    end 1995
preparation of         (40,41)        implementation           of state owned enterprises;                  vouchers to MinFor
MinFor                                regulations for mass-    (ii) distribution of vouchers                enterprises;                  (MinFor/FSP/GKJ)
enterprises    .                      privatization            to 1opuladon by mid 1994                     (ii) establish MinFor/GKI
pengram for local level wood-
enterprise corportzation and
privatization;
(iii) agree pr-privatization
assistance and preparation
activities tinetable
.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



page 14 of 14
iii'r
W L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  X 
~~~~~~~o  i 
- =j]~~~~~~



ANNEX 
page 1 of 6
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 3: Potential Harvesting Levels in Belarus
Historical Background
1.           Up to and including the period of the Second World War, the Byelorussian forests were
severly depleted by overcutting and destruction. Since then there has been a serious effort to restore the
forest resource which today cover 34% of the national territory.
2.           The last ten years, annually harvested volumes have been kept safely within the sustained
yield principles by following carefully elaborated management plans for each forest. Each management
plan is based on a forest inventory which is repeated every 10 years. When planning the anmnal cut the
individual management plans are summed up to national level in order to arrive at the actual allowable
cut (AAC). In average over the last six years the actual cut has been 5% lower than the allowable cut
for the final fellings. The amount of thinnings is more dependant on the funds available from the state
budget and on the markets for small wood. Because of a very small proportion of mature wood, there
has been periods in the past where the clear cut volume has been above the allowable cut, but no serious
differences have occured since the 1960's.
3.           Reliable statistics on the actual cut exists only for the forests managed by the Ministry
of Forestry. The development of those cuts the last six years is illustrated in Figure 1. The harvest on
other torests is approximately 0.8 million m3 ob.
4.           It is notable how the cut has been steadily declining during this period in spite of an age
distribution which would indicate a possible increase in hanresting levels (Figure 2). The major causes
of this decline has been the reduction of areas due to radioactive contamination and the reduced demand
for forest products in Europe and the FSU states.
5.           The volumes presented in Figure 1 represent the total harvest, including fuelwood, which
is normally waste utilised by the local population. The industrial wood which actually reaches the
processing industry is only about 60% of the harvested volume. This low utilisation is most likely a
reflection of the fact that there is a good denand for local fuelwood, while industrial utilisation of small
wood has been limited to a few board mills and export to Scandinavia.
Poteni  Hrvest
6.           The International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) published in 1992
forecasts of potential harvest for 0The Forest Resource of the Former European USSR.' This study is
a major effort to analyse the vast resources where Belarus is a small but important part. Detailed results
of the study are not available at Byelorussian level but a summary indicate a harvesting level of 15.9
million m3 ob as a long term average. This level is compared with the actual harvest which according
to IIASA was 12.3 million mr3 ob in 1988. As this figure in fact is 10.9 milion m3 ob (10.1 for Ministry
of Forestry and 0.8 for other owners) according to the Ministry of Forestry in Belarus, it is likely that
IHASA has used a figure that was planned for 1988.



ANNEX 3
page 2 of 6
Annual Harvest 1988-1993
Forests Managed by Min For
Million m3s ob
12
10    -_----1
8                                                          U - - 1 _ | * Final fell
6                                                          U Thinning
4
2
0
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual harvest from other forests in Belarus is approxiirately 0.8 million m3s ob
The figures for 1993 are estimated
Source: MinFor
7.           It is concluded in the IHASA study that the actual cut is well within the forecasted values
but in several cases higher than the presented AAC. The reason for this is that the AAC is only calcu-
W   for the final dear cut, while in Belarus a considerable part of the cut comes from the thinnings.
In order to estimate the total AAC (including the thinnings), the Soviet experts assume a factor of 1.12
which for Byelorussian conditions, with only 2.4% of the forest in mature age, must be considered a
serious underestimation.
8.           In order to form an independant view on above figures, the appraisal mission carried out
simple simulations of the biological potential of the Byelorussian forests. The basis for these calculations
were as follows:
*     The forest areas managed by the Ministry of Forestry under protection and conservation
objectives were reduced in order to reflect the restrictions on the thinning and clear cut
levels in such forests. The remaining areas by species and age were used as a basis for
the calculations.
*     Models for harvesting schedules on a per hectare basis were constructed using the basic
volume produrtion from the Byelorussian yield tables for six different species (pine,
spruce, oak, birch, aspen and alder). The yield class used for each model was selected
in order to compnsate for growth losses due to defoliation and the fact that the forest
inventory reports two thirds of the Byelorussian forests as not being fully closed.



ANNheX 3
page 3 of 6
*     The barvestmg schedules included estimated assortment distribution and harvesting costs
for each cut.
O     Three scenarios were calculated:
(i)    Mininum case: all areas with radioactive contaniination were excluded;
(ii)   Middle case: all areas with contamination levels exceeding 5 Ci/lc2 weic
excluded;
(iii) MNximum case: all areas with contamination le-vels exceeding 5 Ci/lan2 were
excluded, but areas of mature and maturing forest with a contamintion ievel af
1-15 Ci/km2 were assumed to be clear cut during a three year period in order to
salvage some of the wood before contamination levels increase further.
9.           The results of the simulations are shown in Figures 3 to 5 following. It is important to
stress that the estimated volumes are theoretical potentials and do not pretend to reflect an r-tual long
term harvesting plan. In reality the large variations in cutting levels will be smoothed out by adjustments
of rotation ages and eventual exparsion of the forest asset.
10.          These cases as based on the the age and species distribution of the Byelorussian forests,
as well as the contamination levels for different age classes (Figure 2). It is interestir, to note that the
proportion of contaminated forests (percentage above the bars representing contaminated areas in Figure
2) is highest for ihe youngest forests.
Age Distribution and Contaminated Areas
Forest Areas Managed by the Ministry of Forestry
Area in 1000 ha
0    500   1,000  1,500  2,000  2,500  3,000
Young forests     ;              I      I X
Young middle-aged
Old middle-aged    %,
Maturing forests 17%!          I          I t
Mature and overmature              I      I      I      I
0    500   1,000  1,500  2,000  2,500  3,000
EContam. 5+ Clikm2 EContam. 1-5 Ci/km, U Conifers
* Hard broadleaves   * Soft broadleaves
Fiue   2
Source: MirFor



page 4 of 6
Potential Commercial Wood Availability
All Contaminated Areas Excluded
Volume In million m3s ub
20  --------------------                M~U Veneer
U Sawlogs
15 -------    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~       *Pulpwood
5
0
1994 2000   2010   2020   2030   2040   2050
igre 3: Minimum case
Source: Mission assessment
Potential Commercial Wood Availability
All Contaminated Areas with 5+ Cl/km2 Excluded
Volume in million m3s ub
35
30 ----------------
25  -------------------                E~Uveneer
120 ------------*sawlogs
15 ----   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *Pulpwood
UFuelwood
10   _             
1994 2000   2010   2020   2030   2040   2050
Uue 4: Middle case



page 5 of 6
Potential Commercial Wood Availability
All Contaminated Areas with 5+ Ci/km2 Excluded
Clear Cut of Mature and Maturing Forest with 1-15 Ci/km2
Volume In million m3s ub
30-
20 ---- ----                  200                           sa2wogs
*Pulpwood
5
0
1994 2000    2010    2020    2030    2040    2050
Fiure 5: Maximum case
Source: Mission assessmert
Conclusions
11.          Although there is ahistory of overcutting inBelams and in the CIS, there is no indication
that present cutting levels are surpassing the sustained level. Some litterature (notably "Regional
Alternaives in Soviet limber Management" by BreLton Barr) pointing to an exhaustion of the commercial
forests in Belarus, Ukraine and the Baltics, evidenly refer to the fact that very little mature forest exist
in those areas, and that it is being rapidly diminished by clear cuts. However, those figures are based
on a forest inventory published in 1983, while later figures for Belarus indicate that the proportion of
mature forest is increasing to close to 5% after having been 2.4% in 1988. It is also debatable what is
the age limit for manre forest. Historcal figures are based on rotations which were set in order to
maximise production of high quality logs. By introducing economic considerations when deciding on
rotation length it is likely that the rotations will come down slighdy. Efforts to bridge over the foreseen
supply explosion in the 2010's are also likely to reduce rotations during a period preceeding 2020.
12.          There are strong indications that considerable larger volumes could be harvested than what
is done at present. The increase should be principally in thinning volumes. Both the forecast produced
by UIASA and the appraisal mission are rough estimates and would have to be made with more
sophistication in order to be a reliable estimate of sutained yield harvesting volumes in Belarus.



ANNEX 3
page 6 of 6
13.          It is therefore recommended that more detailed simulations are carried out under the
framework of the Porestry Strategic Plan. Such .sinulations should specificatly adress the following
issues:
*     How large conservation and protection areas are required in Belams? In what way do
these areas influence the sustained harvesting levels?
*     How large areas should be set aside of the conminated areas? When could harvesting
be reintroduced in these areas? What is the safest management scheme for these forests?
Q     How could the violent changes in wood -* ply over time, depending on the skewed age
distribution, be smoothed irnto a long temi sustained level? What are the forest
maaement consequences of such a stratv? Is it desirable?



ANNEX 4
page 1 of 17
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 4: Detafled Project Cost Tables
Table 4.1:  Silviculture lnvesunent and Recurrent Costs  .......................... 2
Table 4.2: Spare Part Plan                              .3
Table 4.3: Seed Facilities.                                                             4
Table 4.4: Fire Management Program                           .5
Table 4.5: Air Pollution Monitoring .6
Table 4.6: Forest Mangement Information System.                                         9
Table 4.7: Forestry Research and Development .11
Table 4.8:  Forestry Education and Manpower Training .12
Table 4.9: Project Implementation Unit .13
Table 4.10: Wetlands Study .14
Table 4.11: Radionuclide Monitoring.                                                   15
Table 4.12: Project Cost Summary .................. .................... 16
Table 4.13: Finacing Plan ...................  17



Table 4.1: SILVICULTURE INVESTMENT AND RECURRENT COSTS
Quanity                        Unit cost                     Base Costs (O0WS U)
Uni          1994     1996     1996      1997  Total     1994-97          1994      19 1996 1996       1997  Tobt
1, INESlUENT COSTS
Pn sng sawo (mmua                   each      200      100         0                300          $10          2        1        0                  3
Chakinaws                            each    2,279      570    2,279               5.128        S400        912       228      912              2.051
Trmctoretalor+Loader                each      234       59         0                293       $13,500     3,159      797         0              3,956
Safley Eupmenwt                      each    2.513    3,142    3,142              8.797          $40        101       126      126                352
Moble debads snd chppers (a)         each       2         2        1                  5           $50       100       160       50                250
Total irnwenmd Costs                                                                                       $4,273   $1,251    $1,087             $6.612
11. RECURRNTCOSTS
Totalrmweedvolume(Inem)       'O nOm3sob              1,117    1,483    1.463    4,043             na                  na       na        na       na
ThbInn 15 - 40 yeam of age        '000 ha               80       100      100      280       S34.944               Z796    3,494    3,494    9.784
Pnrunluupto2mat20years             OOOha                 1         2        2         5       S4.513                   4        9         9       22
Pnng upto5mat37years             'OOOha                  1         2        2         5       S8,211                   8        s1       16       40
Total RAecununt Costs                                                                                                $2,808   $3,51 9   53,519   59.846
Total Costs                                                                                                $4,273   54.059   $4.006   S3.519  516458
(a)  fo general us au suppo for ad sdlvculure acbilvde
IDt



Table 4.2: Forestry Machinery Spare Parts
A: INVESTMENT PLAN
Present    Unit  Prolonged  Annual  Machines   Total    Spare
machines   price    service    use      req'd    capac.    parls
(no)    (US$)  life (hours)  (hours)    (no.)  ('000 m3) (US$ '000)
Agricultural tractors              1,500    $6,000    12,000   1,600      800     3,200    $457.6
Feller-slidders                      34  $100,000    18,000    2,000       30       120   $238.3
Tracked slidders                    940   $35,000    18,000    2,000      500     2,000  $1,390.3
Delimbors                           104   $65,000    18,000    2,000       90       360    $464.8
Loaders                             200   $35,000    18,000    2,000      180       720    $500.5
Locally manufactured small equipment                                                       $500.0
TOTAL                                                                        $3r551.5
B: PHASING
1994     1995   1996        Total  L oa - Foeiegn
Spare parts, US $ millions (100% FX)  $1.0   $1.0      $1.0     $3.1               $3.1
Local Expenditure, US$ millions     $0.2     $0.2      $0.2     $0.5      $0.5
Total Expenditures                  $1.2     $1.2      $1.2     $3.6      $0.5     $3.1
o 



TablS 4.3: SEED FACILTIES
ttlem   LoCa1l  Forei       Tolal  % FX      199   -  198          199     49-
Budg      (US000)                         '' ----     (USS '000) --*.-.,----
Mink               1.580     1,5m     100%                1,054      526
Gomel                253       253     100%                           253
Gkboko*                 418      418      100%                           418
2,250    2250      100%                1.054     1.196
EQUIPMENT -SEED PROCESSING
Mhsk                157       157                                              156
Gmll                 152       152                                              152
G_koe                   152       152                                              152
480      480                                              459
EQUIPMENT - SEED STORAGE
Mlnsk                78        76                                               78
Goml                  69        59                                               59
Ghb6ok                   59         9                                                9_  5
194      194                                              194
EQUIPMENT - SEED QUALITY CONTROL
Milnsk               49        49                                               49
SEEDUNS NURERY
Mblsk               323       323                                              324
Sub-total            3.276     3.276                         1.054    1.198     1.027
Ardhilte, Ergernfg
and Technical Plannbg                       s15                   58        50        50
installaon and CommissIxnIng                           51                                               51
Consullng Services                                     61                  15                  15       30
TraIni                                        93        93     101%                                     93
TOTAL                           3.369     3.639     93%         73     1.104    121       1.201
Consult  ServIces:
(US$)               Weeks  Unit Fee  Toal Fee    Travel  Predlem    TOTAL
Forest Seed ProductIon               8      $415   $23.240    $2.000    $4.760   $30.000
Bld document Prep. & Eval            3      $415    $8,715    $4.000    $1,870   $15,000
Seed Plantation                      4      $416   $11,620    $2.000    $2,380   $16,415
461.15
Trainin:
(USS)              Pereons      Das  Urit Fee  Total Fee Ttavel  Predlem    TOTAL Pr-Fol
Seed ProductIon                     15        10                                   ,250      ,250     5250
Internatio  Speckalsts (2)                   12,450              4.000     2,550    19,000             19,000
Contawzede Seedilngs                15        10                                   5,250    5,250     5.250
Intenatonal SpecIabt (2)                     12,450              4.000     2,550    19,000             t9,000
ManagmeStudy Tour                    4   60 each                         8,000    38,000    44,000             44,000
92500    10500    8000,



Tabe 4.4: FIRE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Unit Cost
Quantfty                      (000S US$)          Base Costs (000's USS)
1995     1996     1997  Total      1994-96         1995      1996     1997  Total
1. INSTM ENT COSTS
Water Containers for Helicopters (M-2)  5        5                10          $10         50       50                100
WaterContarsfor Helcopters (M-8)       1         2                 3          $15         15       30                 45
Set of Clasps for Heicopters           I                           1         $765        765                         765
Fire Fighting Equipment               10       15                 25          $12        120      180               300
Walke Talbdes - set                    6        8                 14         $132        793    1,057              1,850
Fire Engine Ca                         I                           1         $600       S                           600
Motor Pumps                           50      100                160           $2        100      200               300
Hose -1, 000 fet sec0ons              15                          15          $10        150                        150
Motor Saw                            100                         100           $1         50                         50
Hand Tools                             I                           1         $175        175                        175
Other                                                                                   332       333               665
Total Invesbment Costs                                                            $3,150   $1,850       $0   $5,000
Jl. RECURRENT COSTS
Airplae & Helkopter renta               1        1        1        3         $333       $333     $334     $333   $1.000
Total Costs                                                                 $3,483   $2.184     $333   $6,000
o
?'



Table 4.5a: AIR POLLUTION MONITORING
Unit Costs
Quantity      ($ '000)        Base Costs ($ '000)
1995  1996  Total  1995-1998  1995  1996  1997  Total
I. Investment Costs
A:Fed  Sdn
Metroogical stibon with
automatic registration
measurements                    2     4      6       $27     54   108           162
Soil humidity and temperature    2     4      6       $30     60   120           180
Collection of percolating water
(suction cups and lysimeters)    2     4      6       $10     20    40            60
Precipitation measurement        2     4      6       $10     20    40            60
pH - regisration                 2     4      6        $3      6    12            18
Self-recording diameter gauges   2     4      6        $2      4      8           12
Litter sampling equipment        2     4      6        $2      4     8            12
Tools and material, miscellaneous  2   4      6        $6     12    24            36
Transportation to Belarus        2      4     6        $9     18    36            54
Training abroad (travel expense
for one month, 3 people)         3            3        $4     12                   12
Technical assistance, specialists
from abroad (3 people, I month)  3           3        $6     18                   18
Installation costs               2     4      6        $8     16    32            48
Field Statons - subtotal                                    $244  $428          $672
la
30
o lii
I-,i



Table 4,5b: AIR POLLUTION MONITORING
Unt Costs
Quantfty      ($ '000)        Base Costs ($ '000)
1995  1996  Total 1995-1996  1995  1996  1997  Total
B. Central Equipment
Data Processing, 486-PC          3      1     4        $3      9     3            12
Periphery (printer, plotter, file
sver, network)                  1            1        $9      9                   9
Electric power installation (fuses)  1        1        $9      9                   9
Standard and special software    I            1       $18     18                   18
Notebook PC for maintenance of
stations                        I            1        $3      3                   3
Service vehice with workshop for
maintenance of stations (offroad)  I         1       $80     80                  80
Traning abroad, 3 people, I month  2    1     3        $4      8     4            12
Technical assitance by specialists
from abroad (2 people, I month)  2           2        $6     12                  12
Installation, miscellaneous      I            1        $8      8                   8
Central Equipment - subtotal                                $156    $7          $163



Table 4.5c: AIR POLLUTION MONITORING
Unit Costs
Quantity      ($ '000)         Base Costs ($ '000)
1995  1996  Total  1995-1996  1995  1996  1997   Total
C. Central Laboratory
ICP analysis instrument (best offer)  I         1     $160    160                   160
Peripheric instruments            1            1       $25      25                   25
Instalation of argon gas supply   I            1       $10      10                   10
Gamma-spectrometer with multi-
channed analysator (best offer)  I             1      $35      35                   35
Peripheric equipment              I             1      $12      12                   12
486-PC wth prnter                 I             1        $5      5                    5
Special software                  I             1        $6      6                    6
tnstallation, miscellaneous       I             1      $13      13                   13
Training abroad, 3 people, I month  2    1      3        $4      8      4            12
Technical assistance by specialist
from abroad, 2 people, I month   2             2       $6      12                   12
Central Laboratory, subtotal                                  $286    $4           $290
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                        $686  $439          $1,125
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs - laboratory &
equipment                                                      33    34    33    100
B. Salaries for Technical Experts                              200    50            250
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                         $233   $84.. $33   $350
TOTAL INVESTMENT & RECURRENT COSTS                            $919  $523   $33  $1,475
Go
, b



Table 4.6a: Forest Management Information System
Unit
Quantity               cost       Base Costs (000's US$)
1994  1995  1996  Total  (US$)        1994   1995   1998    Toal
Computer hardware for:
Ministry of Forestry and Oblasts
AT 486 RAM=8Mb HDD-400Mb         1     1            2    $2,600       $3     $3              $5
AT 386 RAM=4Mb HDD-200Mb        10    10           20    $2,100      $21    $21             $42
Laser printer                   1      1            2    $2,000       $2     $2              $4
Matrlx or lnkjet prnter        10    10            20      $400       $4     $4              $8
Local network including server  I                   1   $10,000      $10     $0             $10
Modem                          10    10            20      $120       $1     $1              $2
Subtotal                                                   $41    $31             $72
Forest Enterprises
AT 386 RAM--4Mb HDD=200Mb      90   100           190    $2,100    $189   $210             $399
Matrix or nMet printer         90   100           190      $400      $36    $40             $76
Subtotia                                                  $225   $250            $475
BELGOSLES
AT 486 RAM=8Mb HDD=400Mb        3      4            7    $2,600       $8    $10             $18
AT386RAM=4MbHDD-20OMb            5     5           10    $2,100      $11    $11             $21
Laser printer                    1     1            2    $2,000       $2     $2              $4
Matrix or inkiet printer        5      5           10      $400       $2     $2              $4
Piotter, 8 pens, sze Al         1      1            2    $4,500       $5     $5              $9
Modem                           10    10           20      $120       $1     $1              $2
Digitiing tabe, size Al         5      5           10    $4,000      $20    $20             $40
Scanner                          1     1            2    $2,000       $2     $2              $4
Streamer for backups            1      1            2    $4,000       $4     $4              $8
Floppy discs (for enterprises)  7,000           7,000        $2      $11     $0             $11
Local network incruding server  I                   1   $10.000      $10     $0             $10
Field equipment for BELGOSLES
and the Forest Inventory Departm.
of the Kirov Institte                                               $257                   $257
Copyig machine                  1      1            2    $3,000       $3     $3              $6
Jeeps for field crews           10    10           20   $10.000    $100   $100             $200
Subtotal                                                  $434   $160            $594
to 
'-A



Table 4.6b: Forest Management Information Systm
Unit
Quantity              cost      Base Costs (00O's US$)
1994  1995  1996   Total  (US$)     1994   1995   1996    Total
Klrov Technological Instfitue,
Department for Forest Inventory
AT 486 RAM=8Mb HDD=400Mb       1     1            2    $2,600      $3     $3             $5
AT 386 RAM=4Mb HDD=200Mb       2     2            4    $2,100      $4     $4             $8
Lser printer                   1     1            2    $2,000      $2     $2             $4
Matrx or nljet printer         2     2            4     $400       $1     $1             $2
Plotter, 8 pens, slze Al       I     1            2    $4,500      $5     $5             $9
Dlgl tabbl, size Al            3     2            5    $4,000     $12     $8            $20
Scanner                        1     1            2    $2,000      $2     $2             $4
Streamer for backps            1     1            2    $4,000      $4     $4             $8
Floppy discs                 500                500       $2       $1                    $1
Local network including server  I                 1  $10,000      $10                   $10
Subtotal                                                 $43    $28            $71
Total Hardwae                                                     $743   $469          $1.212
Computer software for
- GIS system (all organisatbon)  I                  1  $200,000    $200                  $200
- Forest Inventory system        I                  I $100,000    $100                  $100
- Forestry Planning                    I     I      1  $500,000    $100   $400          $500
- Standard software                  118   118   235      $500      $0    $59    $59   $118
Total Software                                                    $400   $459    $59   $918
Training (incl. study tours abroad)  1  2    2      5  $100,000    $100   $200   $200   $500
Total Investnent Costs                                           $1,243 $1.127   $259 $12.629



Table 4.7: Forestry Research and Development
(US$ '000)
Local    Foreign    Total       1994      1995      1996      1997
Equipment and materials            $1,780    $1,780      $300      $790      $460      $230
Research Contracts       $1,320              $1,320      $150      $400      $400      $370
Total            $1,320    $1,780    $3,100     $450    $1,190   -860         $600
. .~~'



Table 4.8: FORESTRY EDUCATION AND MANPOWER TRAINING
Base Costs (U$'0)Local                 Foreign   Toa         1995  1996  Tota
I. TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS
Equipment                                         140       140     70    70    140
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                           $140      $140    $70   $70   $140
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Study Tours, Air fares, Per diems, & Course Attendence Costs:
Heads of Faculty Department                      65        65     39    26       65
Teachers/scientsts                              190       190    114    76    190
Students                                        60        60      36    24      60
SeminarlNorkshop                                20        20      12     8      20
Information material                            75        75      45    30      75
Intemational Advisory Committee:
Fees                                             63        63     32    32       63
Travel                                           30        30      15    15      30
Per diem                                          9         9      5      5       9
Sub-total                         $102      $102    $51   $51   $102
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                    $0      $512      $512   $297  $215   $512
TOTAL INVESTMENT &
RECURRENT COSTS                       $0      $652      $652   $367  $285   $652
__J_____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi



Table 49 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNOT
(US$`OO0)
Quwanti      _ _                             s costs
1994  1995  1996  1997  Toal  Urit Coss    1994  1995  1996  1997  Toial
I. TOTAL INVESTMENT COMTS
PIU Equipmet
Cmputer and Pnter              2     1                   3      $8.00     12     6                  18
Teke madh                      1                         1      $0.70      1                         1
Tebx machne                    1                         1      $0.50      1                         1
Telephone & answering machine  4                         4      $0.30      1                         1
Video Camera                  I                          1      $3.00     3                          3
Walkb Talkde                 10                         10      $0.30     3                          3
Furniture                     I                         1    S290        23                         23
Car- b*n sedan                1                         .1    $20.00     20                         20
Mirobus                       I                              $28.00     28                        28
Oher                                1                   1       $3.00            3                   3
l. TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  $91    $9                $100
11. RECURRENT COST
Procumrent Consultancy and   0.25  0.75                   1    $250.00    63   188                  250
PiUManagemeConsutancy        0.25  0.75                  1    $150.00     38   113                  150
PIU Administration Costs:
Chief                       I      1     1     1      4       $0.58    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    2.3
Deputy Chief                1     1     1      1      4      $0.53    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    2.3
Senior Engineer             2     2     2     2       8      $0.41    1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1    4.2
SeniorAocountant            2     2     2      2      8      $0.41    0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    3.3
Acoountant                 1      1     1     1       4      $0.35    0.4   0.4   0.4   04      1.7
Leading Specialists        2     2      2     2      8       $0.38    0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7    2.8
MicrobusDiver              1     1      1     1      4       $0.35    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    1.5
Fuel                       1     1      1     1      4       $1.00    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    4.0
Larguage Training          I     1      1     1      4       $0.01   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01   0.04
Expected eal Increases In wages                                            29.5  59.3  89.0  .177.8
Sub4otal PIU Adrministration Costs                                      $5.5 $35.0 $84.9 $94.5  $200.0
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                                     $111  $370  $130  $1-89   $800
TOTAL INVESTMENT & RECURRENT COSTS                                        $202  $379  $130  $189   $900
4 4



Table 4.10: Wetands Study
(US$ 000)
Eaoi Fioen  Tot         in    1"    17  Total
1. INVESTMRN COSTS!
Compuler hwdware SPARC statIon                47.0   47.0    15.7   15.7   15.7   47.0
Software ARCANFO, ARCNIEW                     16.5   16.5      5.5    5.5    5.5   16.6
Speoo and radmetric surey data                15.7   15.7      5.2    5.2    5.2   10.5
PeuwrAflofdigitaopobahe                        6.0    8.0      2.7    2.7    2.7    8.0
Wetands Monit   Equipment                       40.0   40.0    13.3   13.3   13.3   40.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS:                       $127.2  $127.2   $42.4  $42.4  $42.4  $127.2
IL RtECURRENT GO=T
Q&
Sabaies                                       15.0   15.0      5.0    5.0    5.0   15.0
Travel and per dIm                             4.0    4.0      1.3    1.3    1.3    4.0
Opwa  Costa
Labor                                          7.0    7.0      2.3    2.3    2.3    7.0
utltIes                                        1.8    1.8      0.6    0.6    0.6    1.8
Saors                                         5.0    5.0      1.7    1.7    1.7    5.0
ServIing                                       7.0    7.0     2.3    2.3    2.3    7.0
Car renta and mnintenanoo                      5.0    5.0     1.7    1.7    1.7    5.0
WeUandts MotoingCcosts                          87.5   87.5    29.2   29.2   29.2   87.5
Sub-0toal ReurewnetCosts:                     $132.3  $132.3   $44.1  $44.1  $44.1  $132.3
IJ! TECHNICAL MISTANCE
Wetland Inventoy kIentIfcatIon                 125.0  125.0    41.7   41.7   41.7  125.0
Internatodn Trainin Workshop                    50.0   50.0    16.7   16.7   16.7   50.0
Pealland Restoraton Study                      65.0   65.0    21.7   21.7   21.7   65.0
Bereznsiy Prposal Develpmen                    15.0   15.0      5.0    5.0    5.0   15.0
Sub - tota Technical Astmance                 $255.0  $255.0   $85.0  $85.0  $85.0  $255.0
TOTAL                                         $514.5 $514.5  $171.5 $171.5 $171.  $514.5



ANNEX 4
page 15 of 17
Table 4.11: RADIONUCLIDE MONITORING
Quantib             Base Cost (US$ '000)
Local Foreign   Tota     1 1995   1996   Total
Equipment & Materials           125    125        47      78    125
Technical Assistance            375    375       141    234    375
Total                          $500   $500    $188   $312   $500



Table 4.12: Project Cost Summary
(1US$ = 12,000 rubls)
Rubles - bUlons            US Dollais - mions    % Foreign   % Base
Local   Forelan    Total     Local   Foregn     Total Exchanae     Costs
Intesified Silviculture              43.7     70.9    114.6         3.6      6.9       9.6     B2%       20%
HaNvest Mechanation                           79.3      79.3                 6.6       8.6    100%       14%
Mechanzkaton - Spam Padts             6.0     36.6      42.6        0.5      3.1       3.6     86%        8%
Seed Centers                          3.6     43.7      47.3        0.3      3.6       3.9     92%        8%
Fire Protecon                        12.0     60.0      72.0        1.0      5.0       6.0     83%       13%
Sub-Total                 65.3    290.5    355.8        $5A     $24.2    $29.6      82%       63%
Air Pollution Monitoring System       1.2      18.5     17.7        9.1      1.4       1.5     93%        3%
Radionudide Monitorng System                   6.0       6.0                 0.5       0.5    100%        1%
Wetands Monitoring System                       6.2      6.2                 0.5       0.5    100%        1%
Sub-total                  1.2     28.7      29.9      $0.1      $2.4     $2.5      96%        5%
Technical Assistance
& lnu~sitIonal B3uilding
Forestry Stategic Plan               6.0      18.0     24.0        0.5       1.5      2.0      75%       4%
Forestry Information System          9.6      22.0     31.6        0.8       1.8      2.6      70%       6%
Forestry Research & Development     15.9      21.3     37.2        1.3       1.8      3,1      57%       7%
Forestry Higher Education & Training           7.8      7.8                  0.7      0.7    100%S       1%
Prototype Development & Testing     24.0      24.0     48.0        2.0       2.0      4.0      50%       9%
Manpower Training                    6.0       6.0     12.0        0.5       0.5      1.0      50Yo      2%
Project Administraton                2.4       7.2      9.6        0.2       0.6      0.8      75%       2%
Other Technical AssIstance                     6.0       6.0                 0.5      0.5    100%        1%
Subtotal                  63.9    112.3    176.2       $5.3      $9.4 .  $14.7      64%      31%
Total Baseline Costs                  130.4    431.5    561.8       $10.9    $36.0    $46.8      77%      100
Physical Contingencies                 13.0     43.1      56.2        1.1      3.6       4.7     77%       10%
Price Contingenies                     10.0     28.1      38.1        0.8      2.3       3.2     74%       7No    l
Total Project Costs                   153.4    502.7    656.2       S12.8    S41.9    $54.7      77%      117%
Z 



Table 4.13: Financing Plan
1994             1995              1996              1997              1998                 Total
Local FX  Total  Local      T      Local  FX   Total  Local FX  Tota  Local   FX    Total   Lofl  FX   Total
Total Project Costs 0.880 6.611 7.491 4.234 16.800 21.035 4.278 12.852 17.130 2.836 4.864 7.699   0.557  0.767  1.325 12.786 41.894 54.680
IBRD                6.611 6.611      16.800 16.800     12.852 12.852     4.864 4.864         0.767  0.767  0.000 41.894 41.894
GoB/MinFor     0.880      0.880 3.234       3.234 3.278       3.278 2.836     2.836   0.557         0.557 10.788      10.786
Industry                        1.000       1.000 1.000       1.000                                        2.000       2.000
Total Financing    0.880 6.611 7.491 4.234 16.800 21.035 4.278 12.852 17.130 2.836 4.864 7.699   0.557  0.767  1.325 12.788 41.894 54.680
-4 .1h



ANNE 5
page 1 of 5
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 5: Operations of the Ministry of Forestry
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Forestry (MinFor) comprises 86 enterprises, most of which are vertically
integrated operations entailing silviculture, harvesting, and wood processing/sawing activities. The
enterprises vary in size and production levels and some have comparative advantages over others due to
equipment, access to the forest resource and size and quality of the resource. Since structured under a
socialistic regime, all enterprises have operated with the objective of producing targeted production levels
of wood products at national unit cost guidelines estabLished by Goseconplan and MinFor.
2.    Under the 1992 and 1993 planning guidelines of MinFin and Goseconplan, MinFor supervised
the harvest of approximately 5.3 million cubic meters of mature wood annually. Of this total harvest,
approximately 70 percent or 3.8 million cubic meters was allocated to Bellesprom for its own harvest and
downstream activities with the remaining 1.3 million cubic meters was allocated to the enterprises under
MinFor. Additionally, MinFor supervised silviculture operations engaged on approximately 269,000 ha
ainually, which yielded approximately 3.3 million cubic meters of thinnings. In 1992, 1.3 million cubic
meters of the 3.3 million cubic total was sold as industrial wood; about half of this was sold within the
MinFor enterprises tbemselves for downstream wood processing use and the other half sold outside of
the MinFor enterprises. The balance of approximately 1.9 million cubic meters was sold as fuelwood,
mostly to war veterans and the elderly at highly subsidized prices.
3.    In 1992, revenue from the sale of thinnings totaled 479 million rubles or US$ 479,000 (assuming
an exchange rate of 1,000 rubles = US$1); this represents a profit contribution from MinFor's
silviculture actvities and together with slddding activities, contributed 15 percent to MinFor's budget.
Of the total thinning sales, industrial wood generated approximad US$379,000 in revenue and firewood
US$ 100,000, or US$ 0.29 and US$ 0.05 per cubic meter, respectively.
Accounting
4.    Both the future administrative level of MinFor as well as the forest enterprises require a financial
and accounting system modeled after standard intenational accounting practices and operating in tandem
with a Forestry Management Information System (FMIS). Additionally the system should promote both
budget management and long-range planning activities. At the MinFor administration level, an
acountig system is required to integrate a forestry management system with a cost accountng system,
capturing all actual costs by forest actfvity and properly measuring the financial performance as a profit
center. Additionally, a cash management system woa" provide a procedure to distribute revenue from
wood sales or contactual services through the proposed Wood Exchange to each individual enterprise.
Both the cost and cash management systems would be integrated into a managerial accounting system
tailored to MinFor's activities. Additionally, an overhaul of MinFor's financial accounting system is
required to: 1) reflect Western accountig procedures, 2) accommodate a proper external audit by
cerdfied acountants, and 3) to accommodate the revised activities of MinFor.



ANNEX S
page 2 of 5
5.    At the rayon level, individual enterprise also require a similar overhaul of a managerial and
financial accounting system to ammodate their future commercialized role. The overal accounting
should be tailored to each enterprise's niix of silviculture, harvesting, wood processing and transportation
activities.
The Wood Exchange
6.    Outlined below are the type of service or wood products to be traded on the proposed Wood
Exchange as well as the owners of the products/service concerned prior to exchange sale:
Service/Product                                Seller
Service:
thinninga                                    MinFin
standing stock for final fellings b          MinFin
Product:
logged wood                                  MinFin, enterprise
semi-manufactured products (chips)           manufacture, trader
products from minor forest use               enterprise
7.    There are several fund flows into the exchange which could be used to sustain either the
administrative costs of the exchange alone or all the administrative costs of MinFor, including payment
for contracted silviculture (thinning) operations. These funds flows include revenue received through the
exchange from the sale of thinming, logged wood, and stumpage received from auctioned harvesting
operations. Alternatively, a transaction fee could be charged for the sale of wood products on the
exchange with the proceeds flowing to finance part or all of the activities of MinFor depending upon
MinFin's future intentions for subvention.
Stumpage
8.    A number of different options MinFin might consider for funding of the Forestry Development
Project would include the introduction of the wood market (as now proposed by the Ministry of Forestry)
and a real increase in the stumpage. A phased real price adjustments to stumpage fees to fully reflect the
total operating costs of MinFor's activities, and including a reserve for the long term investments required
to maintain the economic value of the Byelorussian forests.
thinning are service activities to be contracted out to the enterprises but supervised and
regulated by MinFor; the roundwood yield from thinning activity would belong to the Treasury and
could be sold on the Exchange to either an end user for fuelwood, to an enterprise as a raw material
source for semi-mamufactured products or directly overseas to a perspective buyer.
b Standing mature stock can either be sold to a private party or contracted out for harvest. The
end products from both courses of action would ultimately be channeled to the exchange. Under the
contract harvest arrangement, the Treasury remains the owner of the felled timber.



page 3 of S
9.    The benefits of this adjustment to stunmpage are:
1)    increased stumpage would relieve the financial burden imposed on MFin in subsidizig
the annual operations of MinFor;
2)    increased stumpage would promote the financial self-sufficiency of MinFor by funig
its operations directly through the sale of end products priced at market values.
3)    severing MinFor's financial link to the national budget will require MinFor to implement
efficiency measures in reducing its own budget to compete with roundlog madres
existing outside of Belarus.
10.   There are disadvantages of the increased stumpage fees. There will be hier raw material costs
to the downstream wood processing sector which would are presumed to be passed on to the consumer.
Yet these wood price increases are expected to be lower than the expected real incrases in fuel prices.
There are efficiencies that the wood processing industries can adopt to adjust to these charges in ral input
costs without passing all the costs onto the consumers. But for these adjustments to be achieved, a
competitive wood product market, and liberalized international trade in wood products will be necessy.
11.   The table attached presents the on-going budget and incremental budget for MinFor's silviculture
activities alone; all other activities including wood processing are consider to be self-financing and require
no treasury subvention. The derived "Stumpage required for a zero deficit" (line 18) would cover the
total costs of MinFor's existing budget assuming no further subvention from MinFi. This is based on
MinFor's base budget (line 8) adjusted for the incremental costs from anticipated price incrases in fuel
(ine 12), expanded silviculture activides under this project and thereafter (line 10) and other necessazy
increases in ancillary activities (e.g. fire protection, seeds, regulatory activities, etc. - line 14)
Alternatively, a phased increase in the stumpage fee (line 19) is possible which decreases the annud
subsidy element to zero over a four year time frame (line 20).
12.   As an alternative to a direct increase in the stumpage fee for clear cut wood alone, stumpage fees
could be charged on the thinning wood sold to Bellesprom to reflect its true cost of production. A
stumpage charge on thinnings would permit a lower stumpage charge for mature wood. Open market
sales of all wood by MinFor would eliminate the need to set a stumpage fee, and MinFor could finance
its activities from the proceeds of these open market sales. MinFor has proposed such a market.



BELARUS
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY BUDGET
(US$ millions)
REVENUES:                                 1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998       1999
1          Stumnaee Fees to MinFor:
2          mature timber (mil. c. meters)              5.3       5.3        5.3       5.3        5.7       5.9        6.1
3            existing stumpage Fee (US$/c.meter)      $0.7      $0.S       $0.5      $0.5       $0.5      $0.5       $0.5
4          Total Stumpage Revenue                     $3.7      $2.7       $2.7      $2.7       $2.9      $3.0       $3.1
5          Sale of Thinnings(at present prices)       $0.6      $0.6       $0.6      $0.6       $0.6      $0.6       $0.6
6          TOTAL REVENUE                              $4.3      $3.3       $3.3      $3.3       $3.5      $3.6       $3.7
7          COSTS:
8          Budget : on-going silviculture activities  $10.0    $10.0      $10.0     $10.0      $10.0     $10.0      $10.0.
9          Efficiency savings from new silviculture pracices                                   ($0.5)    ($1.0)    ($1.0)
10         Net cost of on-going silvicultwre activity  $10.0    $10.0     $10.0      $10.0      $9.5       $9.0      $9.0
11         Incremet Budeet:
12            Fuel Price adjustment - on-going silvicultue       $4.0      $4.0      $4.0       $4.0      $4.0       $4.0
13            Expanded silviculture activities                             $2.8      $3.5       $3.5      $5.0       $6.5
14            Expanded other activities                         $0.8       $4.0      $2.5       $2.5      $3.0       $3.5
15         Total Incremetaol Budget                   $0.0      $4.8      $10.8     $10.0      $10.0     $12.0      $14.0
16          TOTAIL COSTS                              $10.0     $14.8      $20.8     $20.0      $19.5     $21.0     $23.0
17          Budget ( Deficit)ISurplus                 ($5.7)   ($11.6)   ($17.6)   ($16.8)   ($16.1)   ($17.5)   ($19A)
18          Stumpage fee for zero deficit (US$/c.meter)          $2.7       $3.8      $3.7       $3.3      $3.5                $3.7
19          Phased sumpage alternative (US$Ic.meter)   $0.7      $1.9       $3.0'     $3.4       $3.4      $3.5       $3.7
20          Net Budget (Ddifdt)ISurpls
amuming phasdng atlterndive (US$ mu).)   ($5.7)    ($4.1)    ($4.3)    ($1.4)       $0.5       $0.0      $0.0
a,R
owu



ANNEX 5
page 5 of 5
pt$ to Table
0 #Notes
Total etmated volume of clear cuting, in millions of cubic meters.
Stumpage fees: Prior to September 1993, stumpage fees on a cubic meter basis approximatd US$0.20 and were
then increased five fold to Rb3,500 (= US$1). However for mid 1994 this stumpage fee will again be
equivalent to US$0.70.
Total stumpage revenue: (2) * (3).
Total sale of thinnings includes the sale of fuelwood, primarily to the elderly and veterans, and industrial wood
to Bellesprom for downsm  wood processing activities. Volume of fuelwood sold is approximated at 1 million
cubic meters at today's prices of US$ .05 per cubic meter, generatg reveaue of US$ 60,000. Volume of
industral wood sold is approximated at 1 million cubic meters at a price of US$ .50, generating revenue of
approximately US$ 500,000.
Total revenue generated from MinFor assuming a status quo situation of existng production and existing
stumpage fee, carried out until the end of the benefit stream of the Forestry Development Project in 1998.
The recurrent budget of MinFor, predicated on the 1994 budget proposal of approximately 60 billion rubles and
asuming an exchange rate of 6,000 rubles = US$1.
The efficiency measures realized from the Bank's expanded silvicture program wil provide positive spill-overs
to MinFor's current silviculture program, creating an approximate 10 percent annul savings in total costs, with
5% savings staring in 1997.
2    Adjusment to 1993 budget to reflect future real fuel prices. Assuming approximately one fifth, or US$ 2 million,
of the total budget is fuel costs: projected 2.5 fold real increase over 1993 prices during 1994, and then stability.
3    The opeating costs associated with the intensification silviculture activities under the project and then continuation
and expansion of the progm.
4    Additional increase in local cost expenditures for implementation of all other loan components of the activities
associated with the Forestry Development Project, and continuation and expansion of these activities post-loan.
S    Total incremental budget costs: (12)+(13)+(14).
6    Total MinFor expenditures: (15)+(10).
7    The deficit incurred by continming the 1993 stumpage fee level.
8    (16)/( 2)
9    In lieu of an immediate 100 percent costs recovery through stumpage price increases, an alternative phased
increase, achieving full cost recovery over a four year time span.



ANNEX- 6
page 1 of 4
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 6: Project hplemetatlon Schedule
Table 6.1: Implementation Plan - Intensive Silviculture ............................ 2
Table 6.2: Mechanizion Implementation Plan - Harvesting Equipment ................. 3
Table 6.3: Implemention Plau - Forestry Management Information System (FMIS) .... ..... 4



Table 6.1: Belarus Forestry Project Inplementation Plan
DATES
ACTIVrrY                                                               RESIONSIBLE                       __A
WI4IVE SILVICULIJR                                                                                                                                             __
I     Revision of dunking and prangn     i                                                      Gomnl & Conslant                                   Q2-94        Q2-94
2     Appr   by the Minstuy of Forestry of new nstcdons                                         Ministry of Forestry                               Q3-94         Q3-94
3     Taii  Programs                                                                                                                               Q3-94        Q4-94
4      -For staff of the Ministry of Foestay                                                    Kirov                                              Q3-94         Q3-94
5      --For workers of the Ministy of Forestry                                                 Kirov & Ministry of Forestry                       Q3-94         Q4-94
6     Simulation mns based on all Ministr of Forestqy stands with new instactions as a base     Consultant & Gomel & Kirov & BELGOSLES             Q2-94        Q3-94
7     Seection of stands to be financed                                                         Consultant & Ministry of Forestry                  Q3-94        Q4-94
8     Thimning operations                                                                       Ministry of Forestry                               QI-95        Q2-9s
9     Thinning operations                                                                       Ministry of Forestry                               Q4-95        Q2-96
10    Thnning operations                                                                        Ministry of Forestry                              Q4-96         Q2-97
11    Thinning operations                                                                       Ministzy of Forestay                              Q4-97         Q4-97
12    Pnming                                                                                    Ministry of Porestry                              Q2-95         Q2-95
13    Puning                                                                                    Ministry of Forestry                              Q2-96         Q2-96
14    Pruning                                                                                   Ministqy of Forestry                              Q2-97         Q2-97
.                                                        ,,~~~~I



ANNE2,X 6
page 3 of 4
Table 6.2: Mechanization Inplementation Plan
EARVESTING EQUIPMENT                                1994                         1995 & 1996
Bidding Document:                           PREP            ISSUE          PREP           ISSUE
Agricultural Tractors                       MAY              JUL            MAR            MAY
Tralers                                     MAY              JUL            APR            JUN
Hydraulic Loaders                           MAY              JUL            MAR            MAY
Chain Saws                                   JUL             AUG            JUL            AUG
Chain Saw Spare Parts                       JUL              AUG            JUL            AUG
Safety Equipment                             JUN             JUL            JUN            JUL
Spare Pars for Agriculural Tractors         MAY              JUL            MAR            MAY
Spare Parts for Heavy Forest Machines       DEC              FEB            DEC            FEB
Equipment Ordering:                        ORDER         DELIVERY         ORDER        DELIVERY
Agricultural Tractors                        SEP             DEC            JUL            DEC
Trailers                                    AUG              DEC            AUG            DEC
Hydrauic Loaders                             SEP             DEC            JUL            DEC
Chain Saws                                  OCT              DEC            OCT            DEC
Chain Saw Spare Parts                       OCT              DEC            OCT            DEC
Safety Equipment                             SEP             DEC            SEP            DEC
Spare Par for Agricultural Tractors          SEP             DEC            JUL            DEC
Spare Pams for Heray Forest Machines        APR              DEC            APR            DEC



Table 6.3: Belarus Forestry                                 plplementation Plan
DATES
ACTIVITY                                                              RESPONSIBE SLART LFIN
FORfISRY MANAGEWNT INFORMATION SYSrEM (FMI  IMPLEMENTATION
I     Analysis of indormation  quements of differen modules                                    Consutant & BELOOSLES & ICirov                     Q2-94        Q3-94
2     Study tour of Eurpen forestry organhadons with emphsis on FMIS                           Consultat                                          Q2-94        Q2.94
3     Specification of hardware requirements for WB project                                    Consultant & BELGOSLES                             Q3-94        Q3-94
4     Putchase of limted equipment for develpment of computerized map producdon and stand data base    Consultant & BELGOSLES                     Q2-94        Q2-94
S     Detaikd design of forest mapping and stand dama base module                              Consultant & BELGOSLES                             Q3-94        Q3-94
6     Development of item S and test mns on one distict                                        Contract with local company                        Q3-94        Q4-94
7     Define T o R for Milsk University Software Labratory                                     Consultnt & BEL1OSLES                              Q4-94        QI-9S
8     Tender to purhase of hardware                                                            Ministry of Forestry & BELGOSLES                   QI-95        QI-95
9     Contact for deve1opment of FMIS                                                          Ministry of Forestry                               QI-95        Ql-9S
10    Development of FMIS (module by module)                                                   Selected company                                  Q2-9S         Q4-97
11    Tranig of die use of FMIS at all lvels in Minsty of Foresty                              Kirov                                             Q3-95         Q4-97
OII
06



ANNiEX 7
page 1 of 18
BELARUS
Foreftry Development Project
Annex 7: Environmental Inpact
Genera Forestry
Table 7.1: Positive Environmental Inmacts of the Forestry
Development Project ..............                                      2
Table 7.2: Summary of Possible Negative Environmental Impacts.                       3
Table 7.3: Summary of Mitigations in Silviculture and Forest Exploitation  .5
Table 7.4: Sunmary of Improvements in Environmental Management.                      7
Table 7.5: Summary of Activities in Enviromnental Monitoring.                        8
Wetands Forestry
Table 7.6: Summary of Potential Impacts of Forested Wetlands and
Proposed Mitating Measures ................................ 9
Table 7.7: Proposed Recommendations from the Wetlands-Forestry
Emironmental Review Mission .16



page 2 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.1: Positive Environmental Impacts of the Forestry Development Project
activity                 positive impact ea                             .st
rsisuanc of forcst vegefcion   Morm ligtc will rmach the forest loor. giving a chame for
to pst and diseases.        an undersorey of herbs and shrubs to grow. rith-
thinning wiU improve the gensral helth of the frntg?.
.______________   giving it mtao  resistance t puts and disea
of tins           composidon of mulch kyer.    Speeding up of the humificadon proces of dhe mulch
humificadon of mutch, soil    layer by bottr mulch mixture, momr activiy of macro-
fonration process           and micr-organisr, will reslt In a better developed
soil proIls.
wildlih habitat             Undergrowth of shrubs and herbs wHil provide wildlife
with mort food sources ard cover.
biodivesity of forest       Mors light wil reach the forst floor, giving a chance for
preference fbr mbrAd foms      vegetotn                    an understorey of herbs and shrubs to grow.
ve! tion. w     houi           humus                       Speeding up of the hurfication proe  of d  mulch
Sregeneradon or the plnidg of                              layer by betwr mulh mmixmure, mro  aedy  of macro-
mixed forWe                                                and micr-oo nls, nore light will result Ia a ber
_______________    developed soR profile.
Wil  babiw at               Undergrowth of sb*ubs and berbs he wi pmvid wdf
bid uty                    vwAh food souce and cover, ftus increang quant  ad
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  qualiy. 
wooking condtions           Lighter and ergonomic designed tools wil improve
_nt_duc____of_modem          working condidons of the labour.
harouting  ofh denies         soil structr                 Usc of moderm fotest vehicles for extracdon and
harvesting tecliuqires           tmnspotrtO.a wilt lessen damages to the topsoil.
undergowth md remaiing      Less damage to be expe^ted on undergwth ntd stn
tmes                        stock.
Fir protection project         hrest resources in seteal     This has been extensivdely dedt with in a sepaate
document. Ihis rmssian finds no danger fotr advere
__environentali impacts elated to the proposal.
Sed Center                     propagaion mal              Guarantoes qualiky of seed stock ad storage of seed
stock to oveonc poor seed years, and die cerdfiat
of propagdon material for national and inde.tional
markets.
Source: Belaws. Forest Dewfopnr Project.: EfAronam  Review (Eurcust. Netherlands. 1993).
pargraph references in tables to orsigial teas



ANNX7
page 3 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.2: Summary of Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Voasliteadee1
|par    |envfroanzmial apacts by:                W      dthdto     |mitgating measures:
3.17,    Fiing. tnlning and pnruning in   Outbreak of spore born     Acdvities during periods of minimum saip flow and
3.20     the wrong seson                 disase. te al of trees,     minimum spore fanning of fungi. (November-
disnzban'  of wildlife, and    April). Avoiding exploiwion activities during the
widli6e babitats.           nesing. itwing and breeding pedod.
3.07,    Felling and etiacon             Dantage to vegetation an    Proper failing plans. Faliling direcdon of trees
3.11.    techniques,                     topsoU.                     according to extraction roads, avoidance of
3.12                                                                 excessive movemen  of skidden. Carrying of logs
iunsed of oiling. AssObUe  on felling skm
instead of on lower landing sites.
3.21     Extraction with tncked vehicla   Soil sructure. undergrowdt.   The exclusive use of ntbber Vow pressure) tired
in the wong season                                         velhicle. Felling and extraction activides durig the
winter and spring when soi is fimt.
2.06.    Wrong specis die                Wildlie abia, gn            Divesification of spedis aixure acording to
2.12                                     health of vogeuo,   so       aul sece distribution as ai down in phyto-
foaion (AN).                geogrphia descdption.
2.01.     nedior propagatn matea         Genel   l Of foit           Proper slection of seed ames In natur
6.,                                      pl as                       regenration and use of ctified seed stock in
2.03.                                                                arntc  plandng and seeding.
2.04.
2.15,    Use   toxic agruehmecals        Contamination of soil promfe   Prefeenace to biologicat ps and disease control.
2.23                                                                 Mechanical curative mosurs or use of non-toxic
chemicals Coroml on accumulation of toxic
substances In nurseries. where agm-ctemials ami
-1    .____________________    frequendy used.
-1.07.    Neglct of mn nnc                Geneal hlth of dte         Proper f        maintenance according to forst
2.14                                    forasn soia fomatdon,        rotadon.
wildlife babitat
Source: Belu: Forms Devdlopent eqacr: Envrnmm    Review (Euconsuit. Nethelands. 1993).                                    -
paragraph rfeencs in abes to odginl an



page 4 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.2: SummarY of Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
(continved)
.,    o       4nv enat  t I                 related to                       mitigating measures:
3.19      Caeless hadlng of  eS andtd    Cninnminauon of soil pmrte |   Use of nonroxic oils and lubricants. catchl
os on ailc g ste              _                          | handling backed Up by regular :ontol.
6.05     Fdling activities condlcting    Dur"c0ion of special        The management ;tars should refct the protection
whb dte pxtucdo stit of te   tcowpes                       smtus of the sitc. ;Wantenance acid (selected) fulling|
Sie.                                                      should be in accordance to the ategoy of
.      .        protection.
Outstcd mfuence:I
4M.    Industrl air and water            Ge:neral healtL of the forest   Envirourntal, laws on industrial pollution. Stict
2.07      pollution                      coniaminason of soil.       contrl on qutas of emission. The planting of
. bldiversity                 resiau     Mspecias to acid mi.
5.t2     Overexploiadon of orest         Biodivereity of dte fores  Control of frae collection of minot forest products
(by)products                                               and by-products by th-c public. Nature conservation
__________________________ .______________________   educa60n; visiors cente;s i recreation forsts.
i  .10     Dumptang of s5lUwaste        Conanidon of soil ptofil   Be ter control on dumping of solid domesic wat,
awd watr U e, damage to    environmetal education; visito  cenrs.
d#e rcretdona vlue of the
___ ___-__ foest
5.11      Oenea lack of rwatioss of      QOmel  Wdle  arde    Pmoing a ge8     menti  chay         e of tte pubic .
dw pulk lowar  naur            towards conservation of the    twards Nature shrough educadon and i nbrmadoti
coaseradon                     environm n will endanger
proposed midgaring
measures.
4.11      Cumbetsom  burucrtic           Enforement of regulations    Ituernal rorpaization of the Minusuy of hottsy.
esyse                          and guidelins Is rot assued  tmking into consideration (i ta  integraon of the
because of undefined or    planming division BELGOSLES, (i)
overapping responsibilities.   decentraliation conerning mangement atid
concml; Oii) ceantlizaton concetning regulation
atd standardization; (lv) reoeswrdon congerri
roles of depaments and fwutdons in agreemnt
wih the next poir. and wit te requi emen of
protection frmst MAnagement
5.05      Lack of Integration bowm       Implemenution of iiptoved   The tasks of e Potutry Resech Institutoild
reseach ad pacdce              techns  ao nd ods is    be reconsidered. A disdacdon should be made
not assued.                between pure tciifc rsearch, with tongo-m
Interss, and applied sciendfic rsearcb, for dte
public and privat s r in the short tsr  Results
from research should be accounhtd for and applied
research should be carietd out on a contract basis.
Purm scientific resech should be kept subsidlzd
ard remain und:r the responsibility of the Academy
____________                          _____________              ofe Sciencs.
4.02      Not up to date leladon and    Wrong imptementadon of      Revision of laws and reguladons by tde Xrov State
reg*lati.on                   tules in teladon to modem   Institute of Ttchnology ard Forestry Resestch
silviculture.              Institute of Cornal.
Scc: 8r6wWa: Fo~  D.ef.mm  Prieu: Zavironw,m  Rnevw (Euroconsuit. Ncrhcrlans. 1993).
paragrapit rferncets Ia ables to ora text



page 5 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.3: Summary of Mitigations in Silvicnlnure and Forest Exploitation
-par,       A_                               AL, TNa
year          ADDMlNAL COSTS
2.03    Seed Caeter           The foundaton of 3 S3ed Canters for     I                tfnFor
quality control of forest seed storage of               rAI
sed stock 3ad c:rdfcaron of :omnerdal                    Addidetil budet d(45.0)
_ __________   propaga!ton mawnal.                                             USS for techn    assistance
2.04    Te breeding cesuer   Strengthening of the FRI te breeding     2                Mior         -
acdviides by creatin.; T.-t breeding center.             FRL Addidtinl bude. *r
capital WMM . edmatd
o be in to otder of
30.000 uss.
2.01    Fosesr Nuneries       Regular contol of soil quality in the   condtnuous       MIFor
nursery planting beds on level of toxic                  FRI
substances.
2.i0    Fors Regeneration    Especially in prtection forsm            condinus         MinFor
wreneration should be geau d towards                     FRI
namral regnenraton. Only were high
qualty timber production Is pla
prefisence should be on atiia Panig
of seedlings of superior genetic quality.
3.17,   Widle diversity and  Foest produan ar4 mrn _a                Condm             MIAFor
3.20    babitat               acdvides in the right smsn to avoid                      OoslcMuk
d5atWba    of wildlie. Contguoulng
site as sme as posible to avoid
detrucdon of wildlife habas and
obstruction of access to meigbouring
terrfitoes.
2.06    Species sln           Species seletion according to  m classes                 MioFor
a_d in favour of mixed forests                           PU
3.15    Saniay postarvest   The taras should be delimbed co dt  extat  coatuoss        Minfor
methods              ta th green mss and the stem are bin
flat on fth grund. Toe stem should be cut
in  segmes  not excIn a Ienth of 2
,mr. pxrferable noatongerw tan
nee. All stem wood exceedg  lan In
damt r should be debt*ct If lekh In te
formst. Bradlef trs should be alowed
to Invade Pine stnds.
2.18    PrunIng               Psuunig suld be done durIn periods of   Strt with pitot    MtinFor
lowest risks for infecdon with pahosgat  pltt ia yr 1.
It is the opinion of the review rmlsdit ha
this should be done durg m;nhum  ap
flow
3.11 t    arvestirn           Technicl nudpiting actions as propoed    continuous       iutFot
by the forest ploiaon misson                             BELLESPROah
concening use eInvironmen ftiendly
and ergonmoic power tools, tSe of
wheceld rolling mateial, carrying instead
of tmaing of felled trees, assoruneoc on
feWling site. carefl use of Iubricants ad
fueels proper felling plans. contml oan dte
worksite during dte fellig  cdvities is
ained by this mview.
Soure  R ms: Forw Devpme  PleJer: E             hnent Revew (Euroconsuk, Netands, 1993).
pargaph eferes in tabls to odginal text



ANNEX 7
page 6 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.3: Summar  of Mitigations in SUviculture and Forest Exploitation
(continued)
_  _ACTIO :N                                                         e             o      LLYI
I_ J                                                          yawADDMONAL COSrS
5.02    Resernh              aonrenodon of he role of t Forest       I                FRI
Reseatch lnste towads applied searab
for the private sc  and frmaion of
Sad Center for qualtWy gnpwven and
connel of prpagldon maitrial.
5.06    Vocaonal &ducaton   Reorientadon of trmal foest education    1                lIT
towards the proposed changr of
mmgen_mnr in prducdon forety and
protection foresy ard natumc consrvadon
and management
5.11    Nauie Fdon          The installation of Vsts Centers in     1.2              Mblror
recreational forests (especially dtose                  Coumn of Miniers
siwa2ted in the Greerbek) together wia.                 Goskomekolosia
airning of field staff in mature education.               dotal amount for
Instalation of puot VW=
cuter. 20A00 USS Running
cam 2,000 UWfyr
4.2    Forst Lesldon         Revision of fthest tegulSon and cdes    2,2W            lnr
and regulaom         according to moder  Ivicult ad                          MT
t       _aarmgcetmetodt  Safy tuls for                  FRiL
petma     q dafo fQors woers and                        Add hoa! co= balgt o be
vWidig af acorm   ton sad duge of                       pvied by U! to VB
dte e04mnvsOmat._                             __           _    __      _
4.11  _ I   organIan   IWterAl rgnL&o Of tIe minisay of  312                         Gov
of bRor              Foesty. oking into eonsldero () M   t
inregaton of de pbnning diso
ELGOSLS (ti) decentmlizad   of
f.orest mangement and control; Oil)
.en _ ozador coneminSg eguto  nd
s.ndazdlzaio  (tv) roieatdon
concerning ole of depunmnt and
fcions in ageemnt wth die ext point
and witt pectdon forestry.
3.16,   Ine govermeal        _eorlentation of ohe tasks Of dte vaou  1,2,3           Govement
1.06    Reorganiadon         Mities and State Comm    concerned
wih laiue wads Ies production
o    d fncdons.
6.      ?toecdon forestry    Thu posile Inagredon of responsibiit   2                Mfor
for doe magent of Fores Resre                           G    a_
and oder peced as in die Miaist
of Forsty togedrer wth h formAon of
a deparuens for ate  conservation
eduntdo and ihrmaden.
4.07      anagemepln          Magepme  PaMS sorl include filng    I                  blinFo
plans. with prmper layour for temporary
extraction rads. The felling should be
according to die byout of extacdon roads
and not in a haphazad way.                       _     .    _..;
216    Pest ad dises         Rese    in biological control of pes and   cotiuos      FRI
contrul             disease should ba contiaued and                          minpor
Ihplemd. Pro   post earereg                                L
wme       as debarking of sumps and let
logs. Appication of rtot epeln.
plmning bmrdf tre species.



pae 7 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.4: Summary of Improvements in Environmental Maagement
Isdmdonal opniwla                   Updang hory agulaos and codes. daRedefinIng wpaubi    bmn
MiriFor sd Goaskatl.AdaPtg mnangep so p              evvw poa*a
d=nds. Crakon of canl body fr m         8nnodg poje  lnzplwndona
Revision of conci wi fos exploaidadon coatonrs. Plvadeado of fohet
expihion &Cvia.
PabEc educao                        Namis conseraon edadoapssamg bn= don visio ama  In remudnia_
RSch  ad Deve                       Redefition of dt rok ofie FRI. Applied sa:cab for t6e commnecial setor.
=nWfadnse smorag cewe ad une breding ceame.
Monitorng nd craml                 S       Utrdting of MinFor ad Goameologa for monitoring ak of pmject
actvides. Nw Monitd  mublion for fars hveny. Stng naal
.aneevauaton for defntn o         onfeo
BdacW=o                              Trainig. orf S    and fiel workers for amw anamgemen demand aflhr projeo
Socc Bw: Foret Devefpn.r 1Ptjea. EaWrosm  Revew (Emw                   N     _.t a f  1993).
pruph  f es in UN" to odil  wa



ANNEXS7
page 8 of 18
General Forestry
Table 7.S: Summary of Activities In EmvironenWtal Monitoring
P*L        MR EU                              ACnlls                                     am , _e
4*                          ROOhM= of tw= mIadb =.du=ea uom*a  modem    L22=MP
d._Am _d           mod,. S_._ an. f_           .
amp       er f r  aMmC O ad                          _    pbM
_p eta. _ _lem.                                           Eml      Wb
4.0.    W&Mvbmml            To am  dm PreM deMa am belq mre. omur of btm    I          Mhlfu
07                         admm ad ffreaeh eceNd.  Mw to bes cafomed         
ia  udv ad c m %a. Tbaefo        a br                     FRL
head mel tam.a  adhwehgzvide wMhh
hi da Mb,ot law to be zivWh or opUe bee Aboe ad
wi  h ar d bt "   Mae mu _    aO d VW wm
_AM be costs 8ul pMeei  SpecWl  _u ha a be
p- to t -e  of omace  hi c deet   peu2u     _
hr &kmmdel wbb   Ig  dw * 9   Lf                            Qe_diq
_________  dads pdaed  ad*ea.                       _ far
I~~~~~~~~w I dY_d  p
4*2     mqew    of fdetm      d   kway of f            audI labs. Ib
_ _                  a. Syeeud hisey td Rme         Wt. Ab. An cAm
OpIbS mobra oft d S      e-  s us  add be ,ivmWIea        bdof aU t  b
by hfIdI wei da w a tea   may date bhc *g..
a hE OGtSof die Adey of Scdh
8mm.: kww:Fost#DqewIopmf1r*ct: E*RnaetRtwew (Eumoonsult, Neeitmts, 1993).
pugapafemac  in ouwn to oii gm



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6: Summary of Potential Impacts of Forested Wetlands and Proposed Mitigating Measures
1. Thinning and logging
a) Distuwbmncc of undertory and snitlvc   * acctimpltsh logging, tNlng and     Min1or
vegtation by soil erosion.             taSPoraion on  Oen sol,
Transportation of logs may cause rutting  ' avoid logging in d  dpadan zone in  MinPor
and compaction.                        nainy pedods, and protec u"s from
skdding.
' use low impact equipmt and avid      Mlfinor
skidding and catepiu tacors.
* pro  naUrI Atas IA the wetld and  NMiPor
in th dpadan zone by iducdion of    State Commitote
amwgemunts for crosfs (se Annex    for Ecolqgy
rv).
* choose dry sla for stugq togs.       MinPor or cont lc
* make sun dtha A operaor arm familar   MnFor
withoningnyplas
b) Increase in tmperatur ad post-      * aoid carcutiag, but Implekmet         ?inI7or
clearcuttlng soil compacdon, rced      sciwve and phod fng of manwe
waler howing capacqty aild =-n off.  *
s implem low bwa* O&&nW   bWor
remove tind MaIa frm di
.                   ~~~~~~~wetad.    '
c) Pollution fm  oil-Vpill aNd         *   make se tht watig reads arm         Mnor
contaminating mterial for              constfIctd wel dew of rparan zonem
roadconstnuction.                      and atvoW td moauvneloa nearw
we"landsWad Stams.
'avoid mevatlIfemo or iph   rich       Minor
.nataial for rad csrubfi.
ftur= hia,,: &*Mmav_JA*w OfFor0 Wida (IWRB. E_ag.d. t993).



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6 (contIued)
* maintain wends and t:a.m buffer      MiWor
areas in as naturl a condition as    Slte Commitdee
PO6lIC                               fol Ecoloy
* pmepar retur fuel otogep faciltie and    MiaPo or
rmecad maintn mahInz  wel way  oonteact
from seams ad waterlogged soil, and
avoid spllage of il and lubricants.
* cooe dry ites for taing logs
2. Widlife habitats
d) DIIupIioO and degradation of habitats    * assess te wldlife as    bei      Academy of Science
by loss of cover and  ne specis upon   harvesing Is implemented.
which wildlWfe deped.                * leave dead btees and caveing as potentIal   MinPor
Widlifec species and distribution may  breeding plces for cein widlife       Acadeny of Sclence
change by decreasing number of         species
breding pairs, food resoures and     * improve natural aegaion of            MinPor
conditons for mignts.                  boadlaed Irmes In t  rparan zone
Irish populaions nay also decrse due   * avoid deshrcion of beaver dams.     MiaFor or
to possible  atrphicatios, chanqes in                                        contrat
sntam-Now, tem ate   d ds charge                                             MNFor
of coaminants.                                                               Academy of Scimen
e) Distr      of wildifeduri  orestry    * reduce humn impact cesed by          Minpor
opeations and by Imprved publc         disturbance, and ensure owabirds and
access to the ameas conermned.         othw  wUife with access to avaiable
food. resoues.
* aoid spring h    hnin  wetds and      MinFor
adjaceit beffes of imum 300 m
.      utwiddLo 
_||_ __ _ I_ _ ______ --m w ,1: ardenlng.M
Source: Bdlars. En    lavn,t RW of Forestd WaIM& nWI. Ftwsnm-t Ioqn%



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6 (continued)
3. Biodiveslty
fl Change in soil condidons ad light   * ensure natural regeneration of wetland  MinPor
regime may influence regeneration      forcsts includng dpodan zones.        Academy of Science
dynamics of natural plant communities    * avoid introduction of alUen Ireo specics.    MinPor
and changes In wildlife by docreasing  manage and maintain tMe dparian zone as  MinFor
thc number of breding and migrating    an integrated past of the aquatic     Ministry of
species.                               envimament, and avoid dischre of      Agicuhntu
harmful containants to te catcient    Ili Ch:mical
waterourses.                         Indusies
* mintain open or *iooded condifions      iFor
depending on the natumal drace of the  Academy of Science
habitat and mangement goaL
* establish seial mngement aras and    Academy of Science
zones covering wedands, weotnes and    State Committee for
ecological coildom.                  Bl3ogy
MinPor
g) Fish populations may also decrease due   * close dtainage systems whenaver possible
to possible changes in tiam-flow,      and restore natural conditions.       Academy of Science
temperature, and dischlarge of       * conserve remaining atual welands such
contaminants,                           as pcatlands, undisturbed srams and
floodptsins as well as wetland forests
considerd importa  for impmving
diversity.
* astas  far  as possble naturA         Minpor
regenendon of form  peat-mined areas.  Ministry of Agrculture
* develop an adequate planning and      State Comomttee
monitorig syutcM.                    for ;wology
Source: Be larus: Enronswnral ReiWew of Forested Wetlands (BWRB. England, 1993).



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6 (continued)
4. Draminge
l.Primaly impads 
h) Dramatic change In the hydrological  * rcstoradon and creadon of wcdands in  Minbaor
regime by lowering the groundwater      former peat-mined ma should have      Academy of Science
table, coil erosion, oxidadon of peal-  high priority.
layers.                              * close old dainge systems whenever      Minishty of
possiblc.                             Agriculhm
ScnLdy impWcl
i) Impovcrishment of biodiversity by    * consider natural tgeertion in riparian    MinPor
reducing natural plant communifies and  zones adjacent to open waler and
dcgradation of wildife habitats may    srearms.
destroy breeding possibilities for catain   * it afforestation is considerod, avoid alicn   Minror
cndangercd or rare specics. Dischwgc   trec spocies - I conifers In riparian  Academy of Science
ot ochre and nuirients into downstream  zones in order to enwznce wildlife
watercourses whicih may cause fish      habitats and improve the scenic value.
disease and cutmphication.           * avoid canalition of natwal stieams.    MinPor, Ministry of Agriculture
* avoid diverting dins to adjacent streams  MinrFor, Ministry of Agriculture
and csablish silt-traps at the ends of
drains in amas of erosion risk.
e maintain drainage systems properly by  MinPor, Ministry of Agriculture,
removal of sit fm  silt-traps, and make  cotators
sure tht the drainage system is
accessible to light machineqy.
* silt reoved from silt-traps or from   MinFor and
ditches should not be dumped ih       contactors
wetands or ether ecologlcally auablc
.        areas, .g. rip0an zones.
Smmrou: &tws. E,Wronmed Revew of Freated Weads (FIR. ntWa. 1993).



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6 (continued)
j) Increasing fire hazard. Dclerioration of   * establish tire breah bordetod by    MinPor
river anm stream watcr quality below     broadleaved native tree species.
drainagc projects.                     * cstablish static water pools and depots for  MinFor
firc combating equipment, including rLre
bcaters.
* establish structurcs for rapid fire     MinPor
detection and response, communication
equipmcnt, ctc.
5. Use of chemicals and
fIcrtlizer.
k) Use of pesticides and herbicides and   * avoid usc of pesticides, fungicides,    MinFor
otlaer hazardous chemicals may           hierbicides and olher hazardous
contaminate soil, ground and surfacc      chenicals in wetlands including strcams.
water and cause degradalion of natural    * thc precautionary principle should also  Minror
plant comnmunilies, insect life and      apply in riparian zones, at least in
decrease the populations of insectivorous  waterlogged areas.
wildlife. Pollution of water is likely to    * in and around forested wetlands, streamns   MinPor
occur atid degrade aquatic vegetation    and floodplains chemicals should only be
and water resources for domestic use.    applied if they arc approved for use in
Toxic chiemicals pass tlrough the food   these areas.
chain and have severc impacts on top-    * avoid spraying over watercourses,     MinPor, Miiustry of Agricullure
level camivores such as herons and       drainage canals and ditches in the
bins of prey.                            catciment.
1) Use of fertilizer in wetlands and streams,  * avoid use of fertilizer in forcsted  MinPor, Ministry of Agriculture
in tic eatchmcnt close to watercources   wetands and in dte riparia zone and
and in arcas witlh a ldgh groundwatcr    close to strmams In the catchment.                                                       w
table is known to tave a scrious       * makc surc that operalors are Instructed in  MWinof and
negative impact on natura conditions     safe usc of hazWdous chemicals.         conirctoi                                        o E
and water resoures for domesdic-use.                                                                                                X
Souac: Belanrs: uvironnmoal ReWew of Forested Wetands (IWRD. Englnd. 1993).



Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.6 (continued)
# sionc chemicas saely and securely and    MinPor or
makc su  that all empty containers are   contractrs
removed from fte ara
6. Planang, moaitorlg and
*ming.
m) Inadequate and weak law enfoitemeut,   * establish an Agency under the SWe      New legislation
lack of ooiorination betwemn responsible  Committe for Eoology to coordinate
institutions and departments may         cross-sectoral rctpondlblles on
seriously minimise dhe possibiltics of   consenration and management of natural
developing efrcdive planning and         resouucs.
decision-making processes. contrul of  * assess the present genecd ULaw on      Stlde Coinmitte for Ecology
forestry openitions and imnmediate       Environmental Protectionp and planed    MinPor
actiors to initigatc advcrse             Icgislarion concerning forcsuy and the    Intemational assistance
cnvironmcnlal impacts.                   environment for further clarification.
* develol) management plans for fosted   New legislion?
wetlands incuding mapping of fcalwurcs    Minror
of ocological intrest and              State Comniittc for Ecology
cnvironmennahly senstive aras.         Intenational assistance
* implement interntional o ndards and    SLate Commdt ee
guidelincs for managenict planning.    for Ecology
n) Lack of comnunity parlicipation in    * make arrangements dsuring partcipation   Academy of Sience
conscrying and managing adtcirw          of biological, ecological and          District Authorities
wetlands may, in longer term, decrcasc   hydrological cxperise In thc planning    lntrnational assislanwc
cnvironltecna awareness.                 PnMCCSS.I
a  promota  nde stungfthn local paticipation  Acaemy of Science
and environmenlal awaness.              ierationat aistance
.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 4-
34mm: ___Maw_ __i__  ,_,,**__e.w o _____-                                                                                          00 WRM
Sornee: Bkelnal: E,Ii,W,rnI evetcwof FrerMsed Welad/s/;IWRFJ Enis31d, 1993).



I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
.1                       Pr
3,~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- ~r-
BiA~~~~C
Jo 5 SI aBed
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AINNEX 7
page 16 of 18
Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.7: Proposed Recommendations from the WVetlands-Forestry
Environmental Review Mission
1. xC=jtCri=g
The  proposed  intensified  forestry  operations  -in  wooded
wetlazds  acce=t,_ate  the  reguirezent of  an  Inverntory  of
ecologically  iwet't ae2ads  and  their  values,  in
particular wildli!e.
The   Republic   of   Bela'   s   has   identified    several
interzaatizral2y  i%portent waetlandis for waterb"Irds, and a
wet-lad inventory is under preparation.
it is recommended that the prepZaration of a wetland irnventory
p=ogra=e should be supported  th-ough international funding
and tech nical assistance.
The p=ograzze sho_ld be expanded in order to inclu.de (i)
natio-nal as well as (iij intCermational important wetlands.
The programme should focus on:
- ideantiFication of (i) and (ii);
- inclusion of forested wetlands;
- habitats and. wildlife;
- e-s ta4shin  an organizsational frazewark;
- data storage; and
- data processing.
2. xia ge=eat pla.s
Under the wetlands-forestry ZR mission it was recognised that
the=e is a need fcr efficient ranagement plannirng procedures
in  relation  to  fo=ested wetlands  and other  ecologically
imPortant sites.
I t is re=oemded that, a procedure for ramagnaqent planning
should be estaBlished based on international standards and
g-.adelines. A coordinating Agency under the State Commnttee
for Ecology should develop such a planning i.5zt-maet and
seek international assistatce.
The S-idael.nes  ror nana-enent planning for Ramnsar sites and
oth:er wetl:nds,  which has been developed '=nder the Pazsar
Convention, should be used as a basis for t-he development of
such a system.
Managament pla-.s fcr forested  wetlands  should set clea=
objectives for -the sustainable use o: living resources a_d
habitats.
The Berezinsky study proposal, produced by The Academy of
Science, -ould provide the  inforaation necessazy for the
developnment cC a management plan for the Biosphere Reserve,
as well as recommndaiations for r.anagement.
Source: Belaras: Environmental Review of Forested Wctlands (IWRB, Eg1land. 1993).



page 17 of 18
Wetlands k;orestry
Table 7.2: (continued)
S. ExsA pcfi e4awvedox are=s
Under thc wcdands-foresty ER the needs for spccial conservaton areas has.be
demonstated. The requirements for the estabLshment of conservation areas arm raed
to forestod wetlands, floodplains and peatlands Including assoc rarian and
taition zones.
The designadon of conservation areas covedng the above mentioned habita could be a
usefulitgaon measure in relation to imnplmcadng intcnsified silviculue
It Is reeownnded th  fthe needs for designation of conservaon areas should be
assessed in relation to forested wetands, etc., in Belans as an Integrated element of a
wetId a nventory programme.
it is further ecomended tat special consevaon areas should be cstablished ln
forested wetdands, and that inte=natiornal assistance should be included during the
Inventory and implementadon of such a plan.
Ihe pr ary sudies to ilentify speal consevation areas should fcus on:
- vuIneabfl;
- IMPOc   fr widlife            na ;  nd
- te si2e of t areas and their accessibilitr,
4. Warinin
MTe ER mission recognised the needs for strengthening control and wadenng of
f*restry and mining cperations and the requIrements of coordination procedures
between  Forest Entekss, contractors and instatutes responsible for nare
coservaion. The lack of coore1nation is also addressed by reommation 2.
it Is recended   hat insdtudonal organisadon sbould be stengthened with one
slugel Agency responsible for nature consevation, monitoring asid wardenizig. M
adequats wardeing of proctd aras requires the following stadrds:
- head wardens should be employed on a full time basis;
- wardens shoud be issued with sutXcint authority, and:
* easure that site managent actions are undertaken;
* mrambin contact with local authoxtides and people; and
- disseminate information to the geeral public.
The respons}ble Agency should implement a wardening programme on a national basis
and ensure that adequate finance, personnel, equipment and tainlng are availabLe.
With international assistance and funding a training programme for wardens should be
devcloped including the organisadon of an iatemadonal workshop.
3ou e: eawtu: E,Wl.v,n Revew of Forted Wedadsr(WRB. Eagland. 1993).



A7
page 18 of 18
Wetlands Forestry
Table 7.7: (continued)
S. Pt .a.a,, S-a                                  --&
The welands-foresty ER mission recognied th       ts  f adequate consevato
ind managemt of natal pea?lands and car re*traion of deaded p  atas In
Belarus
It Js reohmended that th e Ste Commite for FoloSy, and dh Academy of Sciece
should ouxanse an International Peadands Semiar In cooperaon Vt relevant
internaiozl organizations focusing on:
a) Pnzdands, as worldwide sasseta
b) B3arssa peaands and ther utdiation;
c) Conservation and management of original peatlands including their flora and fauna;
4) 3coadlon of demded peatlands;
e) Es*tabmmt of natae reerves; and
-) Afforestadon of degraded peadands.
The seominar sould be anended by 20-30 expera fom EWus and forep conudes|
The arangemen of the emina shoud be funded fom nuadons sources.
t,...fA,.,.W ... .-.. ~         td.A   WD  .t.           ~~'                       



NEX 
page 1 of 1
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 8: Estmated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Quarter #
since             Low Dibuisement              Cumulatlve            "'bwremt Pro
Approval          This Qtr. Cumuladve          Totd (%)              Seoe       Re     lb
FY 1995
1   Sep. 94        0.1      0.1                   0%                  0%           0%
2   Dec. 94        0.3      0.4                    1%
3   Mar. 95        1.5      1.9                    5%                  6%          3%
4   Jun. 95        2.5      4.4                   11%
FY 1996
5   Sep. 95        3.0      7.4                   18%                 10%          6%
6   Dec. 95        4.0     11.4                   27%
7   Mar. 96        4.0     15.4                   37%                 18%          14%
8   Jun. 96        4.0     19.4                   46%
FY 1997
9   Sep. 96        4.0     23.4                   56%                 22%          18%
10   Dec. 96        3.5     26.9                  64%
-1    Mar. 97       3.0     29.9                   71%                30%          30%
12   Jun. 97        2.0     31.9                  76%
FY 1998
13   Sep. 97        2.0     33.9                  81%                 38%          38%
14   Dec. 97        2.0     35.9                  86%
15   Mar. 98        2.0     37.9                  90%                 46%          46%
16   Jun. 98        1.0    38.9                   93%
FY 19"9
17   Sep. 98        1.0    39.9                   95%                 50%          58%
18   Dec. 98        1.0    40.9                   98%
19   Mar.99         0.5     41.4                   99%                58%          66%
20   Jun. 99        0.5     41.9                  100%
a)     Banwide Poesty
b)     Regional Agriutre Sector Profie: Forestry is ot provided as a separate category profile. Data in Standard Regiona
Profle inchudes only 6 counties, of which 3 are in Eastem Europe. and none in PS counties.



ANNEX 9
page 1 of 22
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 9: Economic Analysis
A. Economic Price Assumptions
1.           The price of the products concerned is the most critical factor to the success of the
project. Table 1 below is a summary of the prices used in the various scenarios discussed in section B,
Component Analysis.
Table 1: Price Assumptions
Economic Wood Product: Prices: (US$/m)                Reference:
Fuelwood (oil equivalent import parity)   $11.23   Table 9.1
Sawlogs (export parity)   $64.43   Table 9.2
Veneerlogs (export parity)  $130.86   Table 9.3
Standard Conversion Factors (SCF):         _
Labor     0.87l
Foreign exchange     1.00
Fuel     1.00 
2.           The economic value of the fuelwood and pulpwood over the project life will be largely
a function of new wood consumption patterns, influenced by (a) rising oil prices, growth in personal
disposable incomes with concomitant expenditure on consumer durables - e.g. furniture - and investment
in housing, etc.; (b) investments in new wood processing facilities; and, (c) to a lesser degree, regional
economic activity and inter-regional distribution patterns.
3.           The consumption patterns for fuelwood and pulpwood are expected to change from
industrial use to predominantly fuel use, if imports of energy from Russia are no longer subsidized and
prices rise sharply to international prices. This is anticipated during 1994. Even if under the planned
customs union with Russia, fuel prices do not rise to their full international value, there will still be a
significant real price increase in fuel. In addition, recent measures to remove subsidies and cross
subsidies for all types of fuels will increase the costs of fuel to both industrial and domestic consumers.
Fuelwood is expected to substitute for oil in both rural domestic and ural industrial heating and
consequently can be valued at the import parity price of fuel oil, equivalent to $11.23/me (Table 9.1).



-jMX9
page 2 of 22
The costs of adapting oil-fueled boilers for fuelwood has also been incorporated into the analysis of this
import parity price.
B. Project Component Analysis
4.           Disussed below '. the main assumptions behind those project components (intensified
silviculture, harvesting, spare parts, fire management, and the seed facility) which have quantifiable,
derived economic values:
Intenuifid Silvicuture
5.           This component of the project would aim at reducing the country's backlog in immature
stand maintenace, with a thinning program to cover an area of 280,000 ha over three years which will
increase small wood production in the short run and more valuable large-size timber in the long run.
Two benefit/cost streams are associated with intensified silviculture: one stream represents the incremental
smallwood production and increased value of the remaining standing wood, as a result of thiuning
280,000 ha targeted area, using a new intensified silviculture practice; and the second stream measures
the thimin operations costs savings derived from the introduction of light mechanization to replace the
present heavy ex-USSR equipment. This second stream of benefits is analyzed separately under "Light
Mechanization" (parn. 12 et seq. below).
6.    Incremental benefits from the harvested and standing wood values alone, i.e. the first stream,
have been measured by contrasting a modelled "afkr" thinnings program with on-going MinFor thinming
activities (Annex 10, Tables 10.1-10.5). The targeted areas have not been adequately thinned and are
of the age class between 20 and 40 years. Given the predominance of pine and other coniferous species,
pine has been chosen to represent the forest type to be modelled. Four age group models were prepared
and project silviculture activity is allocated as follows (Table 2 ):
Table 2. Age Class and Areas of Forests to be Thimned (ha)
Age Class      Year 1        Year2  |j Year3         |   Total
20th year      20,000         25,000        25,000       70,000
25th year      20,000        25,000         25,000       70,000
30th year      20,000        25,000         25,000       70,000
37th year      20,000        25,000         25,000       70,000
Total:       80,000        100,000       100,000       280,000



ANNEX 9
page 3 of 22
7.           A comparison between the with and without project models provides a slightly higher total
volume (2%) of wood over the fillt stand rotation, but with a different industrial mix, resulting in a higher
increment value, as seen below (Fable 3):
Table 3. Production of Roundwood fom Project's Silviculture Are
(n3 per ha)
Item                                                 Inc tal    incremental
With Project  Without Project   Production    Gross Value*
Fuelwood                    66.9            137.4          (70.5)          ($792)
Smallwood/Pulpwood         149.9            273.9         (124.0)        ($1,393)
Sawlogs                    217.6             61.3          156.3          $10,007
Veneerlogs                  49.3              0.0           49.3           $6,451
TOtal                      483.7           472.6            11.1          $14,273
Source: Tables 10.1 through 10.5                    * at economic wood values (Table 1)
8.          In the short nm, thinming the inadequately tdinned young forests (20-37years) would lead
to an increase in production of smallwood suitable mainly for fuelwood and pulpwood. However, larger
profit margins are derived from higher sawlog and veneerlog volume, generated in the medium and long
term (i.e., years 40 to 100). The incremental gross value of the increased volume of the hight value
timber - sawlogs and veneerlogs - is about US$ 4 bfllion over the stand rotation (100 years: harvesting
would be between 60 to 80 years after project implementation). These incremental benefits are not
captred in the calculation of the ERR because the discounting effect for the time value of the cash flows
reduces all flows after the 25th project year to a minimal impact on the ERR (para. 11).
9.           A substantial proportion of the pulp- and fuelwood is currenly either wasted or utilized
for low value wood products. An indication of the current lack of demand for fuelwood is reflected by
some rayons failure to take delivery of all of their current allocation of fuelwood. The economic decline
has dried up traditional markets (namely Russia) for Belarus pulpwood, and prospects for export have
been heavily impacted on by both the present world recession and the recent rise in Russian rail rates.
10.          The ERR analysis for the wood benefits from intensive silvicultue assume smallwood
produced by the project is constant, but consumed at various levels, and the consumption level is valued
at the oil equivalent price (Table 4). The low case scenario is a break even exercise to achieve a 0%
ERR; the base case output level achieves the cost of borrowing (15%) and the high case is arbitrarily



ANNEX 9
page 4 of 22
established at consunmtion of 40% of project production (i.e. 30% to EBRD) project' + 10% incremetal
fuel substituton). Beyond 40% smallwood consumpdon, the ERR approaches infinity. (Table 9.4
presents the base case cash flow.) The various ERR scenarios as follows.
Table 4: Wood Benefits from Intensive Silviculture
(valued as fuel substitute at $11.23/r)
Scenario           I       ERR
Base Case: 35% consumption
of the incremental fuelwood and       15%
pulpwood produced
Low Case: 28% consumption
of the incremental fuelwood and       0%
pulpwood produced
High Case: 40% consumption
of the incrementa fuelwood and
pulpwood produced,                   99_
II.          The other silviculture revenue components, sawlogs and veneerlogs have been valued at
their export parity prices. This is in line with the expectation that Belarus will in the medium term exports
logs as its proportion of mature forests will have increased to sustain both domestic demand and exports.
However, the incremental benefit flows from these two products occur well beyond the significant time
stream of the project and have only a 1% point increase on the ERR, under any of the scenarios.2
Ih M         on for Intensive Silvicu}ture
12.          The valuations of benefits derived from introducing a light mechanization package were
carried out by estimating the value of machinery operating cost savings, by comparison with conducting
thinnings using the existing heavy ex-USSR equipment and its associated work organization system,
13.          Light mechanizon will be introduced for the intensive silviculture areas during the first
three years of the project and is expected to reap benefits over the first five to eight years, which is the
lifetime of the machinery. Returns to mechanization in thinning are dependent upon the efficiencies
(theoretically) achievable through reorganizing the work force around a changed technology (chainsaws
and light mecanization). The technology itself saves in both capital and labor, but the gains will only
1.    The preparon report for the EBRD Wood Industries Support Project proposes investments in
manufacturing and processing facilities that would demand 30% of this projects incremental smallwood
output.
2.     i.e Asswming for each of the scenarios in Table 4, 100% sale of the sawlogs and veneer logs at the export
parity prices shown in Table 1.



ANE 9
page 5 of 22
be realized as work-teams shift from the present practice of working in brigades to working in smal
teams (and in adopting the necessary incentive systems to make those self-motivated teams work).
14.          The light mechanization component can reduce fixed costs of thinnings by US$ 2.30/m3
and the variable costs by US$ 9.70/r3. In order to ensure that equipment associated with light
mechanization is well-maintained and to hasten privatization of the sector, it is assumed that equipment
will be sold (at 20% of original value) at the end of five years, in the case of tractors and loaders, or two
years, in the case of chain saws and other equipment. Table 5 below presents two scenarios: (a) the
returns under ideal conditions, with work shift teams described above (Table 9.5); and (b) under a more
realistic approach where only one-third of the theoretically expected returns will be realized early in the
project with a 10% anmnal increase in efficiency - a "learning curve" ensuing (Table 9.6).
Table 5:  igt M            in Intensive Silviculture - Economic Returns
Scenado             I ERR         l
Theoretical Returns                  126%
Phased Implementation:
(Learning Curve Effect)               43%
Intensive Silviculture: Combined Wood and M h    o Benefits
15.          Wben both streams of benefits are evaluated against the silviculture equipment investnent,
the combined ERR for the base case scenario is 40%.
Spare Parts
16.          The investment costs of harvesting under the present system was contrasted to a number
of alternatives, and repair of the existing machinery through a pare parts program was found to provide
the highest return even though a compromise is involved. This compromise is a delay in changing over
to lighter machinery with even lower unit operating costs, and a delay in the reorganization of harvestng
to the assortment method. The benefits from harvesting machinery repair are estimated to occur over
the first six years of the project (the machinery is introduced during the first two years of the project).
Incremental benefits were derived by neting the average costs of the repaired machinery with the
marginal costs of the in-use machinery, incorporating the US$3.1 million investment stream. The ERR
is 24% (Table 9.7).
Forest Fires Magent
17.          Numerous forest fires take place in Belarus every year and many of these can be better
controlled, if not avoided, with an adequate system of protection and fire fighting practices. The project
will provide both the equipment and the management know-how to reduce the occurrence and the impact
of the fires, which, at an average size of 1.25 ha is fairly small by western standards. On average some
2,858 hectares of forest are destroyed due to fire. In the drought year of 1992, when available resources



ANNEX9
page 6 of 22
for fire-fighting were reduced, some 22,148 hectares were burnt, due in part to both a large ntmber of
fire starts (7,444, versus an average amnual of about 2,550), and a more than doubling in the average size
of burn (2.98 ha, versus the average 1.25 ha). It is this evident strain on resources that project
interventions are planned to relieve.
18.          The valuations of benefits from fire prevention stem from the reduced size of average fire
(it is assumed that little can be done about the number of fire starts). The reduction in average fire size
(in hectares) gives rise to a flow of benefits to the economy over time; these benefits being approximated
by the value of the wood which might be harvested. The commercial value of a forest stand, assuming
a 4% discount rate over the life of the stand, approximates US$ 1,256/ha (Table 9.8). Such a stand is
considered to have an equivalent enviromnental value when one factors MinFor's assessment of benefits
to the economy from a stand of forest, in the following order of priority:
-     biodiversity protection and enhancement
-     soil, water and fragile eco-systems conservation
-     carbon sequestration
-     national landscape, the forest heritage, recreation and tourism
-     commercial timber production
-     wildlife and other forest products production.
19.          The benefits exclude the threat posed by fires in the Chernobyl-affected 'red forests',
where the smoke plume could furhffer spread nuclear conutination, and where fire-fighting presents even
higher health and life-risks to the fire-fighters. These "red forests" are in oblasts (e.g., Gomel and
Mogliev) with above-average incidence of forest fires. When adjusting notionally for environmental
benefits and when considering the public health aspects of reduced nisk of radionucide contamnation,
an additional US$ 1,256/ha is considered as a reasonable assessment of the value of these environmental
factors, the intrinsic value of the forest resources saved and the health care costs avoided. The mission
has assessed that a 30% reduction in average annual area burned will result from the project's investment
in fire protection. At a value of US$ 2,512/ha for both commercial and environmental value saved, and
assuming a continuation of the trend of mber of fires started over the 1982 - 1992 period, the fire
investment component generates an ERR of approximately 9%.
Forest Mana        Information System WNW
20.          The FMIS project component is designed to improve the flow of information and enb3nce
the prompt availability of forestry data base. This will facilitate improved monitoring and planning of
forestry operations. The usefulness of the FMIS will be appreciated as Belarus' command economy
transforming to a market economy and more accurate data will be requested by private or non private
commercial operators. Although quantifying the benefits under this component is difficult, a conservative
estimate of at least 5 percent savings on the forestry administradon costs has been assumed to be realized
as the result of improved management information. Assuming a total silviculture budget of Rb 17 billion
for 1993 in June 1993 prices and exchange rate, annual savings at full development would be of the order
of Rb 850 million (US$ 0.68 million), generating an ERR of 22% (Table 9.9).



ANNEXg
page 7 of 22
Seed Processing and Sorage
21.          The project proposes to establish a network of seed selecting, processing and storage
facilites in order to mamize the production of high quality seed coming from seed orchards and from
selected trees. The benefits from improved seed are as follows:
(a)   improved seed genrination rates kless seedig per seedling produced);
(b)   improved seedling quality Qower seedling rejection quantity - higher yield of
transplantable seedlings per ton of seed);
(c)   improved seedling survival (lower planting density and lower level of fill-in planting);
(d)   faster growth (shorter rotation cycle, earlier close of canopy); and
(e)    more vigorous growth (higher volume per tree, less tree stems required per hectare).
22.          These benefits are reflected in the stand models (Anm  10; Table 10.6 & 10.7) for with
and without improved seed, as follows:
(a)    The WithoWt case, with intensified silviculture (as recommended under this project) has
a seedling density of 7,0001ha. Total wood volume produced to maturity is shown in
Table 6 below;
(b) The With case, with intensified silviculture (as recommended under this project) has a
seedling density of 3,500/ha. Total wood volume produced to maturity is shown in
Table 9 below. Aside from higher yields of higher value wood (sawlogs, veneer)
associated with this case, the maintenance costs are lower.
Table 9: In1mmental Wood Production from Geneicaly Improved Stock
Fuelwood   Pulpwood   Sawlop - Veneer    Total
Wth genetically improved        62.0       110.0    268.5       116.8    557.3
planting material
Without                         64.0       134.5    221.1       93.0    512.6
Incremet                        -2.0       -24.5      47.4      23.8      44.7 1
23.          The stand model assumes a 20 percent higher cost of seedlings for improved genetic stock
than for un-selected stock, reflecing only the production costs of these seedlings, and not any recovery
of the capital investment in the seed facility. The Net Benefit stream (Table 9.10) is therefore positive.
The NPV of these incremental Net Benefits from the total rotation (i.e., to year 100), assuming the cost
of capital to the economy estimated at 15%, can be used to reflect the intrinsic value of the genetic
material of the seeds and the value of their collection and storage. Using an economic price for labor
at 87% of the market price (i.e. SCF of labor), the NPV's for incremental benefits from I ha. of
gedcally improved stock is US $105 in economic terms (Table 9.10).



A-X 
page 8 of 22
24.          The investment in the Seed Facility is US $3.3 million (Table 9.11). Seed capacity is
planned at about 8 tons of annuad otut. However, not all seed will be used for seedling prductio,
and anlual distribution of seed use is assumed to be as follows:
SZ     (m.tons)
Seedlings      5S%           4.6
Direct Seeding   15%         1.2
Exports        20%           1.6
Research        2%           0.2
Seed Reserves    5%          0.4
25.          At this level of output, and at the assumed seedling production rates (including
germination factors) the anual 4.6 m. tons of seed could provide 390 million seedlings,3 suffiient for
112,000 hectares of planting and replanting. At the current level of clearcuting of about 20,000 ha
annually and assuming 15 percent is left for naural regeneration (and almost no area direct-seeded), the
facility will have surplus capacity incluing expanded requirements in the 15 to 25 year time horiz.
26.          The seed output from this facility can be assumed to be planted out over a 20 year period,
until obsolescence of the facility. Therefore the NPV/ha of the planted areas are placed in the benefits
stream, assuming 100,000 ha. annually to utilize the full capacity of the system. This providee rates of
return of over 100 percent (Table 7).
Table 7: Rates of Return, by Percent Utllizaffon of Seed Faciwlty
% Utilization   J_Hectares Planted       ERR%
10%               10,000              23%
20%               20,000               39%
30%               30,000              52%
40%               40,000               62%
50%               50,000              72%
60%               60,000               80%
70%               70,000               88%
80%               80,000              94%
90%               90,000              101%
100%              100,000             107%
3.    1 kg. of selected Pine seed provides 100,000 healthy seedlings, and 1 kg. of selected Spuce seed 70,000
healthy seedlings.



ANNEX9
page 9 of 22
27.           However, given the large size of the facility and the high level of variability of the annual
seed production from the selected seed-trees, an examination of the rates of return at other output levels
was undertaken, as presented in Table 7. Given that dte present areas of replanting are about 20,000 ha.
annually, which is equivalent to about 20 percent capacity utilization, the projected ERR for the seed
component is of 39% (Table 10.11).
C. Composite Retumn
28.            The composite ERR for the total project is 33 %. (Table 9.12) This composite average
includes those Project components having quantifiable returns; namely intensified silviculture, thinnings
mechanization, spare parts, fire management, the seed facility and benefit from the PMIS.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
29.           The critcal factors in the project are demand for fuelwood and pulpwood and
corresponding by correct pricing policy, and the success or failure in establishing adequate incentive
systems (including pricing) for the realization of expected gains in productivity in thimning and harvesting.
Investment and operational costs are incidental to the project relative the sensitivity of fuelwood and
pulpwood prices assumed. The returns are far less sensitive to increasing operating costs of silviculture
than to the demand for fuelwood. The ERR is also not sensitive to longer term benefits from the sawlogs
and veneerlogs because the time value discount minimizes their value.
30.           The price of fuelwood in the short and medium run (i.e., the course of the project) is in
tum dependent upon policy. Whether the fuel import parity price, US$ 11.23 per cubic meter, which
is roughly twelve times the calculated "economic " price of the smallest diameter wood (US$ 0.89/m3p,
is appropriate depends largely upon: (a) anticipated increased energy prices passed on to industial and
household consumers, encouraging substitution of fuelwood for gas, oil and electricity; (b) industrial
energy consumers (especially in the forestry-related sectors) switching over to wood-fueled technology,
and (c) the extent in the long run that municipalities and indus;tres in general be given aid and technical
support in convertig Heat-only Boilers) and thermal plants over to fuelwood technology.
4.     This composite  tum is relatively highe than the overall retuns of two forest projects presented to the
Board in 1993 - the Poland Foresty Development Support Project (Report No. 11318-POL) with an
overall ERR of 18%, and the Republic of Tunisia Second Foresry Development Project ( Report No.
11618-TUN) with an overal ERR of 13%. The Poland project is environment and social-economically
oriented. This explains the relatively higher unit invent costs (compared to the Belarus project) for the
volume of (short-term) thinningsproductionobtained. The Tunisia project's focus is largely environmental;
commercial benefits are a by-product of its implementation.
S.     US$ 0.89/m3 was derived as a function of the economic price of wood not taldng into account fuel
substution value, by detemining a derived economic value of the four wood components - the smallest
diameter wood ("fuelwood"), pulpwood, sawlogs and veneer based on an established price proportion
among these 4 products and to achieve a 4% economic return on the silviculture investment expended.



ANNEX 9
page 10 of 22
31.          If energy price hikes are in large part passed along to consumers, then it may be
anticipated that conversion to fuelwood use will be made at heating plants at a number of levels within
the economy, and that the scarcity value of fuelwood will be approximately US $11.23Imn, as the
fuelwood is replacing imported oil, gas and electricity. The project can encourage this demand by aiding
in the conversion to fuelwood use in the forestry-related industrial sector, which is both a substantial user
of energy and a convenient source of wood for fuel.
32.          Nonetheless, there are quite good reasons for the scarcity value of fuelwood and
pulpwood to achieve a price level of US$ 11.231/i3. The price increases are certain to be imposed at the
border; they are of such an order of magnitude as to make subsidization highly improbable; the
technology for conversion to fuelwood use is simple, weii-known, and inexpensive; the project has a
component to hasten the conversion to fuelwood; and project planning for the energy sector will doubtless
build upon this analysis in determining investment priorities.



Table 9.1
ECONOMC  I=CE OF npLOOD IN OIL KOUIVALENT
No. of
1. International Price of  eavy oil
(3.5% Sulphur) Rotterdam                                          US$/ton                     80
2.  Price 6 Belarme's Refiney                                           US$/ton                      80
3. Price S Belarus's Refinery (at lb 1,200)                             lb/ton                   96,000
4.  Energy Value of Heavy Oil                                            ME/ton                   11.75
5. Value of a OM in Heavy Oil Equivalent (3 + 4)                        Rb/MWH                     8170
6.  Energy Value of Fuelwood                                            KWH/m3 Solid                2.1
7.  Value of a KWH in Fuelwood Equivalent (5 + 6)                       Rb/.3                    17,157
8. Transport Cost to Boiler Site (50 Km see Table 3)                    Rb/Iu                     1,147
9. Felling Costs (see Table 6)                                          Rb/ml                     1,320
10.  Value of a&   of Fuelwood in Oil Equivalent of Standing Tree        lbl/a                    14,690
Conversion of Oil Burnino to Fuelwood
11.  Boiler Capaclty 50,000   B Solid - 106,500 MWH
12. Norking Life of Boiler - 20 years
Investments
13.  Furnace and Moving 8ed                                              Rb mlIlion                  360
14.  Chipper and Conveyer                                                lb milion                   400
15.  Conveyor for Ash and Regulators                                     Rb million                  300
16.  Mincellaneous Work on the Vurnance                                  Rb million                  1S0
17.  Sub-Total                                                                                     1,210
18.  Investment Costs per3 ( (17 + 11) * 201                             Rb/m3                     1,210
19. Investment Cost pr KNWH ((17 + 11) + 201                             Rb/r? 570
20.  Net Value of a m- of Fuelwoood in Oil Equivalent (10-18)            Rb/M3                    13,480
21. Value of a m3 of ruelwood in OlX Equivalent in US$                   USs/i3                    11.23
II 



Table 9.2 Export Parity Price of Saw Logs
US$1m3
1. FOB Austria                           85.43
2. Rail Transport Minsk - Vainkkola      16.67
3. Loading and Unloading                  1.67
4. Road Transport to Forest Roadside      0.48
5. Felling Cost                           1.10
6. Export Parity Price of Standing Tree  65.52
_i 
ot



Table 9.3 Export Paity Price of Veneer Logs
US$1m3
1. FOB Auia                               170.F.6
2. Rail Transport Minsk -VainrW.da         16.67
3. Loading and Unlading                     1.67
4. Road Transport to Forest Roadside        0.48
5. Felling Cost                             1.10
6. Export Parity Price of Standing Tree   150.95
Footnotes:
a) based on mrket in rates in Austria for sawlogs
ddi



Table 9.4: Base Cse Projecions
ERR 15%
Total      Total                          Economic
Revenue    Opean    Shadow                Benefit
Year 000s!USS cost        Pric    Invedment  Stream
1      5,536      (4,121)                     - (   (2X034)
2       7,045     (5,151)    337      (1.637)       595
3      7,045      (5,151)    337      (1,076)     1,155
4          0          0        0        (224)      (224)
5          0          0        0        (381)      (361)
0       2,194     (1,559)     99      (2,970)     (2,237)
7      2,742      (1,949)    124      (1,276)      (381)
6      4,582      (3,156)    194        (503)     1,117
9       5,240     (3,286)    180        (244)     1,800
10      5,976      (3,730)    203        (115)     2,33
11      4,737      (2,933)    158        986)     (1,025)
12      1,327        (889)     53      (1,06)       (574)
13      2,888      (1,854)    105        (516)      623
14      1,052      (1,207)     65         (73)      737
15      1,952      (1,207)     65        (125)      685
16      2,453      (1,433)     70      (2,850)    (1,76
17      3,06       (1,791)     88      (1,073)      289
18      4,489      (2,6)      133        (407)     1,580
19      1,779      (1,079)     56         (a0       676
20       1,779     (1,079)     56         (38)       719
21      2,006      (1,119)     51          0         937
22      2,507      (1,399      63          0       1,172
23      2,507      (1,399)     63          0       1,172
24      4,270      (2,217)      0          0       2,053
25       5,338     (2,771)      0          0       2,567
26      7,342      (3,844)     45          0       3,542
27      2,505      (1,341)    142          0       1,306
28      2,505      (1,341)    164          0       1,327
20          0          0      108          0-        106
30          0          0        0          0          0
ti 



Table 9.5: Reuns to LJgt Meanizalon of ThinnVng & Theorellcal ReWtrn
Operat Coats
Project   Savis   Cubic Meters Total  lrfeebnent           Net
Year   (per rn3)  Opedaed On SaWn    (m.USD)
(miln)  (m.USD) #ech.+Saf1Eq.)
1        2.35      0.67     1.57       3.71             -2.135
2        235       1.34     3.15       1.50             1.652
3        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.84             3.886
4        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.11             4.612
5        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.19             4.533
6        2.35      2.01     4.72       2.97             1.755
7        2.35      2.01     4.72       1.24             3.486
8        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.55             4.172
9        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.12             4.602
10        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.06             4.666
11        2.35      2.01     4.72       2.98             1.747
12        2.35      2.01     4.72       1.13             3.592
13        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.56             4.166
14        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.04             4.687
15        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.06             4.681
16        2.35      2.01     4.72       2.91             1.815
17        235       2.01     4.72       1.14             3.588
18        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.50             4.220
19        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.04             4.684
20        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.02             4.705
ERR.       126.0%
U 



Tab  .6  Resto LghtMecanzaon of Th*n
Prbabl Retuns fth larn  curve)
Pojed Oerati  Cost Mubic M1te   Total   hivestmnt Net
Year    Sans   Operd On Savng   (m.USD)
(t)srm3)   (milir  (mUS)  eh.+Safety
Oa13         rn   s3m-SD22 .71=-.8
2         0.85      1.34    1.14       1.50      -0.353
3         1.03      2.01    2.07       0.84       1237
4         1.37      2.01    2.76       0.11       2.649
5         2.01      2.01    4.04       0.19       3.853
6         2.35      2.01    4.72       2.97       1.755
7         2.35     2.01     4.72       124        3.486
8         2.35      2.01    4.72       0.55      4.172
9         2.35      2.01    4.72       0.12      4.602
10        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.0       4.668
11        2.35      2.01     4.72       2.98      1.747
12        2.35      2.01     4.72       1.13      3.592
13        2.35      2.01     4.72       0m        4.166
14        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.04      4.687
15        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.06      4.661
16        2.35      2.01     4.72       2.91      1.815
17        2.35      2.01     4.72       1.14      3.588
18        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.50      4.220
19        2.35      2.01     4.72       0.04      4.664
20        2.35       2.01    4.72       0.02      4.705
ERR-       43.4%



Table 9.7   Rearms to Spare parls for Exhing Hairest  Machinery
Year    Saving   Cubic Meters  Total   Ependiture':  Net
(UD per m3) Opertd On Savns   (m.USD)
(mrllons)  (m.USD)
1         0.1                0.00          1          -1
2         0.1         9      0.90          1         -0.1
3         0.1         9      0.90          1         -0.1
4         0.1         9      0.90                     0.9
5         0.1         9      0.90                    0.9
6         0.1         9      0.90                     0.9
ERR *        24%
A . | ,. . , ,. .. .. .. Of
_1i



BELARUS
TABLE 9.8: Fire Protection: Imputed Benefits Analysis
Gross
$ Value   Net
Oporaing    Net  (benefits)* Benefits
or    bn         Coish    ,
-------------------- (US$ mil.)------------ ----
1       $2.82    $0.83    $3.65      2.15    (1.50)
2       $1.52    $1.67    $3.19      2.15    (1.04)
3                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
4                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
5                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
6                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
7                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
8                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
9                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
10                $1.67    $1.67      2.15     0.48
ERR =      9%
* = incorporates 30% reduction in ha burned annually,
valued at NPV of US$ 2,5121ha (@4% pa)
i



Tub9             FMIS Rte of ReAnalysps
Annual                               ERR
bweebnen     MdnFor         Cas    Ne              Not
Year           Cob        Budgt         8an     Renus          Flow
"US mion
1               12         20                    -12       4120
2              Om         20        025        -0.73      -0.75
3              0.45        20         0.5        0.05       0.01
4                          20         0.7         0.7       0.65
5                          20           1          1        0.32
6              0.3         20           1        02         0.54
7              0.6         20           1        0.64       0.5
8                          20           1          1        0.32
9                          20           1          I        032
10                          20           1          1        0.2
11                          20           1          1        0.02
25.1%      22.4%
*4uig esod - ent  by SCF frlborof.87 an O% of MonFor Coes.



on    VW      wwllw 
-      mA
wan'  gass.   muswo  mumw  a"o  to   ins    sa  wow* auo  swi   an    us
u
u
a
5
awen  Wruw 0 "%   mmw                t"    w    r        Ww&  m    O        n  G
a
a
a
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Os     Jr        ew oo    OB"    4 auWm    $g                   tto      as 
Sep
a
R
an    O              o=s Wm   We          e      &    --Bg         slu  ur      a
U
St
U
U
S
WAh.i _t  _S., _L            5   -ss.  us      ssPWt  ut   i    us   u 
gmDAC69                   aM    _am lwt       Witt  w-w^ am    atu       art
av    an      imt        LWM    OrAt   Nu    OO&    am$  *cm    mm    gm      art   Itst
it
SL
Os
5
wt   WC  twi)  NV
zzI)         on    Mt            (WI)        lwd      M
Witt sZus  unts)          4W3n   orst  or"    stup)         UIU    au V
OMW   M    OO   "M* PM  3M   O41%    twooww  PIPa  S  PPM  I
gill    ORR  =ow  .........  $00 lilPM  Imm  .......... W410  ....  'S
AN  P"                pH~~~~~~~~~
10=0  ;a            OW"  ~~Anmm
ZZ Jo OZ agvd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
6 ~ ~     ~    ~    6W       AI*stsu    ru             s    s        u      a.u. m             i u



ANX9
page 21 of 22
Table 9.11: Seed Model
Annual Capacity: 8 tons of seed O
D*ifbdo:                     m.tons
Direct Seeding   15%      1.20
Seedings     58%      4.64        394 miMon seedlings (      112,700 ha replntin
Export    20%       1.60
Reserve     5%       0.40
Research     2%       0.16
Stand boneMfs mn _     NETBENEM
CAPITAL FINAN   ECONOMIC fiNANC  ECONOMC  AREA COVERED 
----------------- (USS mR.) -----------------           20
0      1.50                         (1.50)    (1.50)
1      1.50                         (1.50)    (1.50)
2      0.30                         (0.30)    (0.30)
3               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
4               2.08       2.10      2.08     2.10
5               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
6               2.08       2.10      2.08     2.10
7               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
8               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
9               2.08       2.10      2.08     2.10
10               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
11               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
12               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
13               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
14               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
15               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
16               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
17               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
18               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
19               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
20               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
21               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
22               2.08       2.10     2.08      2.10
IRR    39.3%    39.4%



*  Table 9.12:    Compos Retms for Quantfible Components
US$ Milions
Ught    Combined      Repair         Fire        FUIS    Seed
Mech   sdvcuture        of        Protecton             hnprovement         Composte
of     Rght        Harvestng                            Centers
Year Sivicuiture    Thinning  inechanizato Machinery
1      -2.03        -3.19       -5.22    -1.000            -1.50     -42      -1.5               -10.42
2       0.59         A.35       0.24     -0.100            -1.04   40.7495    -1.5                -3.15
3       1.16         1.24       2.39     .0.100             0.48     0.011    -03                  2.49
4       -0.22        2.85       2.43      0.900             0.48    0.8454    2.07                 6.52
5       -0.38        3A.5       3.47      0.900             OA4     0.922    2.07                 7.85
6       -2.24         1.75      40.48     0.900             0.48     0.542    2.07                 3.51
7       -0.36        3.49       3.13                        0.48     0.562    2.07                 824
8       1.12         4.17       5.29                        0.48    0.922    2.07                  8.76
9       1.89         4.60       6.49                        0.48     0.922    2.07                 9.97
10       2.33         4.7        7.00                        0.48    0.922    2.07                 10.47
11      -.02          1.75       0.72                               O.22    2.07                   3.71
12      40.7          3.59       3.02                                          2.07                 5.09
13       0.82         4.17       4.79                                          2.07                 6.86
14       0.74         4.69       5.42                                          2.07                 7.49
1S       0.69         4.68       5.35                                          2.07                 7.42
16      -1.78         1.81       0.05                                          2.07                 2.12
17       0.29         3.50       3.88                                          2.07                 5.95
18       1.56         4.22       5.78                                          2.07                 7.85
19       0.68         4.98      S530                                           2.07                 7.43
20       0.72         4.70       S.42                                          2.07                 7.49
21       0.94                                                                  2.07                 3.01
22       1.17                                                                                       1.17
23       1.17                                                                                       1.17
24       2.05                                                                                       2.05
25       2.57                                                                                       2.57
28       3.54                                                                                       3.54
27       1.31                                                                                       1.31
28       1.33                                                                                       1.33
29       0.11
30       0.00
31       3.01
32       3.77
15%          49%        40%       24%               9%       22%     30%                   33%



ANNEX 10
page 1 of 8
BELARUS
Forestry Development Project
Annex 10: Stand Modds
Table 10.1: Intensive Silviculture - No Thinnizgs Deleted  ........ ...........,           2
Table 10.2: Inteive Silviculture - One Thinning Deleted              .3
Table 10.3: Intenuive Silvict-re -Two Tinnings Deleted .4.                                 4
Table 10.4: Intensive Silviculture - Three Thniinp Deleted            .5
Table 10.5: On-Going Silvicultre Practices (the Before Model) .6
Table 10.6: Improved Genetic Material Using the Stand Model.                               7
Table 10.7: Pine Stas Without Genetic Matiad l.8



e e
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~s
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   O P
ftoo              wes   two   %9           0                     two   161  SO        161 wem   Al    nor ew          no      wo       rig  e 6          L
Noo  ngol         K's       We   so       10i                    a so   "CO 168    so    go"   weur9 oo    Ila                  I       too    at        cc
uoo*     081      VI e     co"    Of      i            so        RIO   seXuo 160      100     0    Ve   An$  011   Sol*    I'm  rn             to        a
Noe      106      Ws       wooe se2       St100    e                O l         1     seo   swo  en    Om en          am  e 31          o      s         i
-41*Ca-                             -ce"
qvn wag   Ieno   wtei    wnw S160                                qotw                        ow    ,, N.'fP
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Wm to POO sij                                                      " PILVw
a A'DOm       Om     no            we       Ira: Wm    Wu   to   Ds's  Omere *woe  ecm                    I   e nt eo                            wai
&ft 1 "       W I     low                           VW      oM    V      4s   rt   we eWm   gu           lsl       an      lm                    A *_V
ews mt co     PC      an     00                     we       D W    ogle            oe ras woo    0641               e    000*_s
kwooce t o                    O                                         oge  we    Wo rT         keres    arn      Mte  Is                         Um
wnwcftAu          ttcr    o      v40n Pu        01o1sn  SW     sSvon so 91A n      on  "Wo tMasn  Nr we atft
w wea &-          etr.    o      dl         -e      *                   -P_d     -PDJi  r                                                           in kV8w_d
t              Cc$    S.                                                                   W      Ws      $00 a1lv                                 sup"
_d t~~~~~es-                                                                                Os's     gm                                       0 _d
bN am                                                                      pp       P+P SIIn         o
pvaA  - m    PM                                                  *w foo  no -^
@_ 4_Uam
poop(l sBu"luutL  oN  -amnjn;)jAjjS oAsualul  :1,01 olqvL



Table 10.2: Intensive Silviculture - One Thinning Deleted
_8wdd AnWVsl df St  Models An BEfw                                                  I3/2S3        P.Om          d be     top (3 Ca                 13#
Cat d lbawhi USODday                            t.16
Seed. perlh    13000          Pdof puipwt ad atradeldo hn USDa33 tdb          8.10
Emd        be t/ mm   8Also          specie                         Ohnubs per ha        0            l.abotrurn                                   4.1%
047             Phl                            sitecdue              tgalrs
One Ihning deleted
Demoilpifun of cpaOn           Year  Cost h USO mMM_A__ur N                                                                                                          m        Yewr DOso,plpan d qp80m
Mu,    Labor Aadnc           TOl                                                                               USWDha       Nd
0.00                                                                                  0         0
Sao pupas                         0                 10.04     S0.00   76.04                                                                                 -76       *76          son prepes
_|.ew                             0                 1o.20     17.10   45.38                                                                                  46      -120          Pllmong
0.00                                                                                  0      .120
aemloig I                         0                 0.62       2.10    2.01                                                                                   4      .t23          aemn  g
aesa*ig 2 nd.rqinI                1                 4.21       3.48    7.e9                                                                                   4      -131        I Cleain 2(hd."P"
Qfatnkig                          2                 031        1.00    1.40                                                                                  -I      -132        2 Car3no 3
Clearm< 4                         7                                    0.00   Revne  orm hwvsOV                                                               0      -132        7 C7a6OUt4
Pran   to 2.0 m                                                        0.00  Fuiwwood -   Pulpwood -    Oase               Ve os-                 ToWt        0      -132          Pnjnlg to 2.0 m
Pnx*kg to 35m                                                          0.00 USDIm iOs do UBDAn    m6 USD/.3            .2  USDIM3           m'3 UODOtA        0      -132          Pning to 3.6m
Pmnuig to S m                                                          0.0                                                                                    0      -132          Puflng to 6 m
hbv4g !                          20      0.00       0.00       0.00    0.0             0.0   0.10    0o                                              0        0      -132       20 T     tIN I
Thl*t 2                          25      t.7s      2.20       10.32   46.     0.00    7.0   8.10    OA                                              o1       16      -ItS       26  hnn   2
Thinnn g                         30      1.40      2.42       22.34   45.24   0.80    6.0   0.10    6.0                                             73       go       -w        30 Thnnin s
ThinIn 4                         37      I."        10.90     2011S   48.27   0.00    6.7   M.a0  11.2                                              00       60       -40       3 7Thnng 4
Thbnnin a                        AS      2.27       10.40     34.19   66.06   0.80    6.6 *.10   t7.                                               146       6o        40       45 1nnn S
Thm*  a                          so 30.00          22.71       0.00 00 s.30s  0.8e    0.0   4.10    2.8   13.8         4.3                         337      251       300       80 Thkwsng a
MThn*,g 7                        75      4.00      24.37      73.84  100.1   0.s0    44   6.10   30.3   IS.M0         20.3                         631      426       720       76 Tnin 7
a t aol                         100     16.10      06.75    242.02  226.27   0.00   24.6   8.10   7S.   13.80    166.8    27.77            26.1   303      3676      430e      140 CarW co
ta                                      32.38     230.s3     6716   842.7             60.4          t77.             SOA.4                 26.1  5140
DawdFast  a w ecosut hi USD.                       0.4s0
aSed an Ws d bow  wtAl budgi per hecW* ot dosed d  orsit
C aw. Avag                                           Avesge  Logging o  eaci. caplb
HMvegig  chede                                                                Pentovote    -         Rtul hin           to  freo vol Assoiteot dubuVon             Sized   tree vd
Yeat        taut Vdoie im to  pw  ha -                    Tes   TOW  Vdurmo   POt             aont. vo    before  PuLpwood SaWog   Vet remoed  remed               Toal  Fum*oC  MUtle
p-       Ore         Met         ore    Arltar     vWks"   AM   TNee  Vdume              %   ns ab                                   trees   m3 rb USD1.3. USD1.3. USD S3.
-           r3 eb -                                   -m astb-
20         42      42.0        42.0      0320    m20       0    0.0  0.000       0%      0%       40%   o00?         to10%                              0000      0.00    C.la$    0076
25         03      03.0        40.6      0130    300s   2140    0.6  0.008    55%       20%       40%    0.010       l0%                0%      76%    0 oue      2. 7    1138    0.078
30         so      72.6        03.3      3605    2600   1276    6.0  0.oo0       0%     20%       42%    0.010       100%               0%      60%    0016       237    CISO    0076
37        IRS      83          00.0      2612    760    74   11t.2  0.016    30%        20%       40%    0.30         100%              0%      65%    0.0o0      2 12    1.106    o.on0
46        l0      t27          0S.3      1700    1246    401    17.0  0.037    27%      23%       68%    0.075       IOD%               0%      65%    0004       1.21    1.t0e     0076
so        208     210.2      1t0.2       1200    682    320   37.6  0.110    27%        24%       74%    0.174        69%    12%        0%      00%    0157 Is?   1.      1.14     0.01
75        406    200.2        203.0      O6m      o41    214   6o0  0.237    2%         24%      60%    0.311         60%    40%        0%      06%    0.20       10.3    1.138    0.076
t10        608    364.0                    022       0    022  263.2  0.466   100%    100%        60%    0.6e0         26%    60%        0%             0.600      0.02    oe00     0.047
ToW!      6707  414Jt
CanmwodAiou vdufm           74.6%
U3
00
0*



Table 10.3: Intensive Silviculture  Two Thinnings Deleted
8".PWIM         INO           MM o f purtmwld 6 d  O  in.0i5              t80
Two thin g deod
emu_
0000"W044pamw                  Yew  cow OiUSOA                                                                                                        Nit  MA=s.       Vew   sactiu   cpqim,O
mml     L.b   w u411    ?68usA 
PWAN                            I8.1110    27.10   4&30~o                                                                            -0      40              W
tbi p.oO0Z4                                                *O.O    7504                                                                                .76     .75           8a gwp.iaS
P,  O           lags       17.t0   45.86                                                                              48    .rt0           Plna
aO.1     Q                                                                                 4      .123          Om"I
ameaig t(ind.,aplfnl)            I                4.21      8.40    7.0                                                                                 4      .181       1    a n     pfn
l                0.31      1.00    1.40                                                                                .1    .32         1 a .ISA3
Clow4                            7                                   O0O       uWes Bun hmwdiig                                                         0      .132       . 0'Vng 4
Pna* to 1.0m                                                        0.00co  Fud    -   A5pwood-   Say ga-             V-Ifog-               Told        0      .132         PFW*g bo "om
PAN** to lS,m                                                        0.00 UAtm nOeb U80*u    ms UsaoAn            Wn  usDbr            ms USDA.         0      -ts2          PA*1gO to 3. m
Pna*  lao  m                                                        O0o                                                                                 0      -132          Penwl to 6 m
Tmm     1                       20     00         o00       o.0  0o                 0.0   6.0to    0.                                          0        a      .32       20 n*Thv A
2Tting 1                        25     0.00       0.00      0.00    0oo            o0             0.0                                          0        0      .132      2  11bwa9 2
n*i                             a0o    tet       21.36      17.20   66.44   0.80   11.0   6.10    0.3                                         as       20      .100      30 Thmhng 3
W*W" 4                          37     108        602 8.0   1.4   0O3    08    11.3 6lsto   tzt                                               too      .4       *P6      31 lown    A
T)mbil                          46      n77      2170       4180   71.06   OAS   11.t   e.to   to.e                                          160       or        42      45 IhbVwi6
TWh"O                           e0     4.20      17n2       64.a    06.04   O.0    0.4   e0to   07.6   15.60      0o                         327     27        272       6u INeV"a
Tm*i  7                         is      .24      21.0?     70.00  110. 1    0.8     0.      O   a4t   18a*        14.0                       806      mm       6n)       is tin     I
Clow tO100    I0s3                                74.6110   280   51.4   O8    24.    0.1O  1066    5.8          166.    27.77         4    3310     1 21"6             too Clw PAut
wold                                  37S2?   14.O    6748   867.0                 74*          1o.              181.7                 4.2  4610
Avuwd Feas U111140iac gOm In USOAt               0.460
based 0010% .1d Sa aum  bud" pw hl 5 d doged twt
C0m. AWg                                           A- u     Logging cow aid.  t05
Huvaboig chatia                                                           Aun Powda    - "   I_we t                 to  Oro ud  Anat8A3   dubbgtan           it.  fir. vd
Yew       Todw  Ydurna               V Tilph-          Ttm   Tutd VdYd    Paut            cam vd      tOr.  Puocod Imlgq   Vm -_           aid t osnoad      Totl      *4  litud
p-d    Del.m         Alw     Sdw.    All           vdaus.  A*  Its"  Vda .                nasa di                               Ie    no* di usftn    SD1  USOOnUu
-ma. b-                                     -ma ub-
20         42     410        42.0      0320    0s20      0    0.0  oo00       0%      0%      40%   0.AW         to0%                             oao       0.00    l.m.    0o07
25         00     68.        63.0      01310    630      0    0.0  0.00       0%      0%      40%    0.010       t00%                             0000      0.00    1.168    o.0or
30        es      60.0        66.6      048   8s6    1061    0.8  0.004    8%6   26%          40%    0.0t1        OO%              0S      75%    O.Ott    2.42    1.136    0075
37        125    101.8        74.8     0749    2612   0237   12.1  03010    00%      20       45%    0.027       ID00       a s             W0    0022      2.25    1.106  O075
45        sea    136.8       100.0     2437   1t81    755   10.6  O0        8t#    26%       56%    0.6         100%              0%      06%    0.047     2.00    1.168    007
8o        10      212.0      158.7     1031    1168    473 a8.7  0.0812        %     26%      70    0.130         08%     2%       0%      am%   0.17        .IS    t.168    0.078
75        406    200.7       I06.0     1123     820   aoa    2.t  0.172    27%    26%         77%   0.236         73%    27%       0%      06%    0.223     I.0    sl.de    0.075
100        656    047.0                  796       0    796  17.   0.40   100%    100%        80%    0.46          36%   6O0        21             0.430     0.06    06       0.04
TOMd      64S   40116
0 O



Table 10.4: IntensIve Silviculture - Three Thinnings Deleted
P10  Ma1 0.4    oei6.0ln                                                                   arn          Ima.tbaubpa1%
"      se1Mof e413 d 6.ddb i Wh.Ssub                     840
136t    AubeMIS                   ped.b                            Ius   wth.             0        ow"nimu*own                                        3.8%
'10.-as ~ ~ a
0.600gb). etow.60  Vat 0010110610.                                                                                                                as~~~~~~~~~.0    :12
000                   0                  600~        ~       ~~~~~~~                                                                                             ~~~~~~~421 M  0.60  *4  *11itoa
CWOAN  3                                       0.31       to s6.40 a7.14 4                                                                                                       276  cIpum" u
0        *~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~*                                                                                              0      *tardwo -PAA  i   0a
O.606.aG 4                                                                  1.40                                                                                      -I      -S?         2Aaaabg36
Uk--* 21         20      &00,        CLOG       OLOO     0      00.60 3a        togae                                                               0      * .1322    I0 1holata6
PItmning & 3.0O                                         & 34                0.00  Guh     ASd Pa twa d, .0.                         .ua.                  0a           0      -02           P.amgaZom 
Pambm4g1024                                              .S       U33,    000    flas    "I.,oaim    U.3    ms                  S UIo               1.3 102)          04      -32           P W*gboA
PWm#gbGa332                                            364        oa       K 0 00    8      al     t       020tw                                                     i         .22          P)3  10b03
TM WV 000                          @003        0.00       0.60     0.604  Q        00S   6.3       0.0                                            04          0       1    2     o Thmdbig
236m.gI                             25      0.00       30.00      no.00       6 60 0        0.0   0L         0                                             01        0o    .1)            la?t60abgI
lb8mb3                     30~~~~~            ~~~ 0002  61.00  A   MI      & 0.00  0.0020.                          MA.0                            0         0m     -4)        IN am *1
Tdd                            ~~ ~~~~32*  2014*7     676.74  4.011             76.            2487               1Ms                    00*  400
Bmood an 0% .1MwI swam budget pa whb 1046.60 btd
CaM    Postae                                           Auu~~ogOae.  c60                    P0uc
IIawabeduetia                                     Adameb-               batwIk                 46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~     ~ ~ bao%mf MAmt,aridMebegb,  g.t.E    .ar j- .--    ..-w- 
you        ybw%vkww       amo          Ts"O  Wr.-            1'..   UN  Vab.'   PN*Wa            616044        babe.a  Iulpmad soAmbig    Vaau    med    t.a               tobwtal   Pas.aU6(6
20          42      42.0        42.0       cm0      m06       a000   too0    01             0%       40%      0007        100%                                 001        060      Iin      00)0         0
25          63      a3.0        63.0       6017    0617       0     0.0 0000        0%      0%       40       0011        ttAfI                                4"30    0oaD        I80 "a   00           0
Be          to      a00         60.0       6M36   2    636    0     0.   Ohm0    0%         0%       40%      000    011 %N                                    ou          ..      14 OraWe   "    0i 
3?         426     426.0        OU.        6101    3374   S61       14.4  0.006    3&%     61%       44%      0.024       100                00%    %          0066       3)0        Ita4    0010      636
46         ISO     413.2       $10.        327      2120    SW4    22.00.01        35%      20%      64%      0041        so"%               @4.      eg.        40       30)      11Sao    001)        643
do         in.     22Z         100.0       2)04     4363     01    41*   0.06      33%      20%      aft      0. Oa       100                a%        0        0002      Sit      $664     Ourg;       602
76         400     266.0       102*        1341      0       410   4660   034    31%        20%      76%      &0.0         64%     Ws%        0%      oft       GlIB6     46a      4160     0015       mm6
100         66      343.                     66              ON    274.8  0.306   OM0       OM0       60%      0.363        400%    OM%       0%                0.lo"0               1       00          1
TAW6       406    480.



Table 10.5: On-Going Silviculture Prnctices (the Before Model)
PlnOC  Adullof S"n Modeh in Solm"                 1Nt                                              P. Imdet-a bwk sd lo b w                         13%
CaetehbowIMUSMsay                                1.15
SEe. Apult       13000        PhiginC ..mod *1 ed& to USDhr& ub                810
Sbgege DO RubAIo          ~          Sped-.1011 pwm h0                                                    a"om   of 0010                            S2%
847            Po.w                            S_t.ess        *eet ts o
Fowftmki. d.td eI  4Sm.   a one u   pd   c)
D"c_dop~~~~~~~~~~o  Cm% ailthUlst                                                                                                                      Notd q
mu b     LsbowFolW.u         TOMl                                                                               USNt  AN.
Sd_5Uso                            0                 1004      8.00    75O04                                                                                  .75       .75         Sod p"lpm
P-et                               0                 10.28     27.10    45.38                                                                                 .45      .120         Ptng
0.00                                                                                   0      .120
04  t                              0                  002       210      28t                                                                                          .123)        Citoo1
Cd2(rAdp                           t                  421       3.40     7.t0                                                                                  J       .131        1 Cleeni  2(lat spleni
C igw  3                           2                  031       tOp      1.40                                                                                   t      -t132       2aCoaog3
CIe.oing4                          1                                     000  Re mt btmmhmwd%o                                                                  0      .132        7 CIjoi  4
Pomlo to 20 .                                                            000 Fuemwd -    Puwd              Saw .            Ve _oos                 TOM         0      .132          P4.uogo20 m
PMwI to 3 50m                                                            000 UtMhn3 mSeobUSOI mS        ml  USDI03       m3   UWIM3           M  0500..         0      -152          P0I.010la.35m
PAA                                                                   000a OG                                                                                0      .137          4wk olaglom
;m;i nsm                          20      0.e         0.00      0.00     000             0.0   0.10    00o0                                                     0 o     132       20 lhlowv I
lMotog2                           25      000         000       000      000            0(0            0.0                                             o        0       132       25JthInI2
Thl*e 3                           30    0e00          000       OOD    000               00            0.0                                             0        0       t32       30Tb 3
Th1001 4                          45       34t       4t.65      5132    96.20    0.8    17.8   8.1    20.5                                           182       85       47        4S6 Id.9 4
ThtoNloS                          82      0.00        0.00       000     000             00            0.0                                             0        0       .41       S2 ltSObn
T    t 5 noD 0s                           4.14       30.03      02.30  103.32   0.8    1.7   8.10   80                                               203      loGt      113        00 1ibooo4
Th%nkag?                          78      4.3t       20.54      54.0   98003   0.0       0.0   8.10   V7.A                                           315      217       no0          1t4nolow1
ChWAt                             to1    1SA0       106.00     210.32   343.21   0.00   32.0   a10  U104.    1S*         01.5                       2317      234      234       too C Q.PA
rzw                                      20.04      2$5.49    40.74  17?          r      0.0          27.0              0                     0.0  8ttn
Ahml ofmat        m mat hn US0                       0.480
Osad an  %      l annual budge_ pm h_ul d edSaat 
HSub R                                      _- R_ Cixw.  Am"                                       A       La* coohb  d               P
HWAH*q wo"                                     ftw~~~~~~~~~   -       RomwAd b              Us~~~~~~h  iee 'oi Aesadoebe dk##A"lo       Se .      .,ne    ..P. -...-.-.            Qa.
You        Yat Volume                Tu  per4 l- he       Tre.   TOW  Vokam    Pumd           cm. o        balm.   Pulwo bwIg    Va            mmwoj  M.ow           TOW   F.Oh,  Mowda.
pe     Bolbo        Alr        Bta      Alit  8       &J10   Ae  Im"  Volm               %    M3. ob                                                                    MeSa  mb c
ads ob    --rn).ab--
20                  00          0.0      0372    s372       0    0o0  o0o        0%      0%      40%      M0oO       100%                               o000       can    1108       0078        0
25                  00          00       5211    5211       0    00   0000    0%         0%      40%      0CMe       100IV%                                        ULM),,   .,m      oo,s        o
30                  00          00       505    SD65       0    00   00e0    0o         0%      40%      0OD        100%                                0(0.41    04 W     Ion     0078         0
45       107.4    1674        123t.      4003    3187   1710    206  0012   35%         26%      47%      00.4        "M0               0%      76%      04*10     21.    I 1100    00         57
52       1874     1235        1235       3001    3001       0     000000        0%       0%      40%      0040       100%                       aft     0(         004  t  110      0018         0
80       253.3    2094        1600       2000    2090    O0    305   0034   30%         20%       8%      0070       100%               0%      8o%      00oss 1o14    118o    0078            730
75       344.3    2408        10t 4      2030    1627    00      37.0  0.074   20%      23%      00%      0.121    tOS                  0%      0%      0100       It7s    1.1      0018       W
t1O       472.0    310.7                  140t       0   1451  240.2  0.10   100        100%      77%      0216        75%    25%        0%              0210       $o0     e0        004     1502
TaI        4000  335.2
CAMMMON _ alkNa             700%
0015
0
00



Table 10.6: Improved Genetic Matera tng the Stand Model
Fnaca Analysi of StandModels In S                                                    13/7/9         Percnta  of bas an tp P on)                      13%
Cod    $          0.07        Cost oflabour in USD/day                         1.16
Sedi. per ha     m00          Prs of pulpwwd at roadaldl In USDfinsa ub        8.10
Exchae inte RubeISD                  Spece                           Svubs pw ha          0         Intenal re of return                             3.7%
847             Plne                            si .in.        II nat rogen.
Planted with Improved genetic material
Cots and revenues                    Assumes a 15%  growth Increase and less seedlings to plant
DescptIon of opetafon           Year  Costs In USDiha
lltl     Labou FuelI+oil     Totl
0.00
Sol preparaIonl                    0                 16.04     59.00   75.04
PlntIng                            0    245.00       4.92       7.30  27.22
0.00
Cleann I                           0                  0.62      2.19    2.61
Cleaning 2(InooplanQ)              1                  4.21      3A.      7.69
Cleanbg 3                          2                  0.31      1.09    1.40
Cleandng 4                         7                                     0.00   Revenueo from ia,'.ng , 
Prunng to 2.0 m                                                          0.00  Fuelwood -    Pq>,wod-    Sawbg-              vnog. -                ToW
Pnming to .5 m                                                           0.00 USDlm3 m3e ob USl/m3   M3 USD/m3           m3  USD/m3           mn3 USD/he
Pnnig to 6 m                                                             0.00
Thing 1                           20      0.84       12.35     12.69   25.89   0.89    5.0   8.10    4.5                                              41
Thinin 2                          25      1.15       13.6 5    1726   31.0    0.89    5.0   8.10    7.0                                               62
ThinnIng 3                        so0     1.3        13.09     20.78   3526    0.89    5.5   6.10   10.0                                              86
Thlnning 4                        37      1.68       12.39     27.88   42.13    0.89    4.6   8.10   16.2                                            136
Thhnhng 5                         45      2.61       12.97     39.29    54.87   0.89    3.4   8.10   19.6   13.89        6.5                         250
ThinnIn 8                         60      4.65       14.70     68.81    87.86   0.89    4.1   8.10   13.3   13.89       30.6    27.77         3.0   621
ThInnng 7                         75      6.63       15.69     84.90  106.12   0.89    6.1   8.10    7.0   13.89        36.1    27.77       1.?   982
Cbarout                          100     19.21       59.75    279.21  85217   0.69   28.6   6.10   32.6   13.69        195.4    27.77        97.7  6715
Total                                   282.22      160.60    023.69  1006640           62.0         110.0             268.5                115.6   791
00
-ak



Table 10.7: Pine Stands Without Genetic Material
Fhnaa Analfle of Stand l Uodeb In Salns                                                 l3aI3          Perentg. of bak and top P am)                      13%
Coet M&$   o 0.0               Cost 0o abour In USIday                           1.16
See8. pw he       7000         Pc d  pufpwood at rodal In USDOm* ub              8.10
Exchangse te Rube USO                 Secs                              iwepehe              0         Inea rat of trn                                   2.8%
4W7             Pine                               ue oh"          na rn.
Without prolect
C3. NW                                for calculating retum on genado Improvement
ndo     n of opeatn              Yw   Cast in US,-
mi       Labour  lfcd         TOd
OmO
Sdl pear                            0                 1i4        56.00   76.0
Pknln                               0    350.0         0.4       14.51   S4A
Clabw   I                           0                  0.2        2.19     "1
Cleann  20Lop"n                     1                  4.21       SAS      7.6
CleanbiS                            2                  0.1        1.09     1.4O
Cblan 4                             7                                       AO.     Reenu    fom haven
Punino g  2.0 m                                                            0.00  Fuecod -    PulpWood -        Saw8o -           Vedo -oa
Pungo a 3.5 m                                                              OMo USD      3s MU ob USDlm    wa  USOAnS         m3  USOAnS           m3 USOa
PrnIn l5 m                                                                 G00
Thimbig 1                          20      0.73       1s.6       104    285    0           4.4   0.10      3.8                                            35
ThIng 2                            25      1.00       14.60      15.01    20S      0.6     5.9   8.10      s.3                                             46
mning 9                            30      1.20       15.30      1.07    34.57    0.9      6A    8O        7.1                                             63
Thlnnln4                           37      1.61        t.15      24.26    42.01    00      6.6     10    113                                               97
rhbwuh g                           45      2.2         15.48     34.17    51.92   0.9      6.1   8.10    19.                                              162
TMnning a                           0o     3.96       19.60      5066    S3t    O0         6.1   S.f0   2.8   13.89         10.5                          384
TWnning?                           75      4.00       17.35      73.82      07    0.80     4.4   8.10    19.4   13.09       30.4    27.7           0A    604
CbsrWout                          100     1670        51.06     242.79   311.46    0.39   24.6   8.10    39.6   13.89      161.2    2.77          62.3  4560
Totdl                                    362.30       106.37    550.16  1180.60           64.0           134.              222.1                  6.0  602
60
o 



Table 11.1: Project Prn_urenun Packaos
(US  WO)                       Tota       l              Bld        Confra       P9oeb
61Htoilndmw kfko oatbhou                    Pad=e        bsued    SubWdsdcn       Whned    Cmoletion
NCMMTAL COL9mvE EDm
Chll Waod - Seed Face                                    $2,251  May, V4   Aht 14    Odobw, 94              99
Communcamn - Fie Proecon                                 $1.850  Juy, 194   October, 14  Decaber, 94       19
Fild Equimet- Foot lnentay                                 $257  May, 14    Augus,4    Octobe, 94          19SS
Fire Proction Equipme                                    $2,240  May.4   August  4    Oober, w4            1965
HarNur  nd Comper Equ        t                           $1200  July, 4    ctober, 4  Deemwbe. I4          109
Hecoper Re bt                                              $910  Mahy,g4   Auguds, 94    Oclober,'94       18SS
Spe Pas for Agrctu  MadcevtyPacaed1                      $2.642  May.4   Augus, S         Ocder, 4         1996
Trelin Equipet                                             $620 Janay, 95   Apfl, '5       June, 15   August 15
Fomety Havestn Equipme                                    .000  Jul,94   October, 14  Decome, 14          IS
Subtal - ICE                       414i11
UMaEEB& NLE
Nuumwy Equimt                                              $263  Junw,    Septmber, 16 Nomber, 16          1S997
Air Pduion Pakge 2                                         $925  MayV9      August15    October165        IO
Seed Pto     , Stoage     Nurey Equint. Pckwe 1             2    Jwue, 6  Septebe      November, 16        1997
Subtotal -UIB                        1
fiNTl^ULwa SHOPIaO
Communicton and Office Equipn                               $2    NA.          NA          Maft 4 I9   S
Heaing and Coolig Eqpmen -Sedac Fif                        $131    NA.         NA       Sepember, VS      1o7
Seed Processng, St1or    ad Numy Equimnt Pacag 2             A4S    NA         NA       Septmber, V        197
Sublotal-B                         12
FMIS Equipment                                             $118 OCtober94  Decmber4        Mach95          IO
Air Poluon Equiment, Padge 1                               $200  July 14  Septe r, 94  Otober, 94          1994
Offle Furidur                                               $23    NA          NA          may4            1994
Regnht end Cheml                                            $24    NA          NA          MAft 4          1996
Spar pafts for A ubAlud Mahiwn .y acka  2                  ML    NA            NA         AuM4, 94         1906
Subtotl -DC & LS                        182
Total: Al Packsa                                        817.493



pug I il
Wa>IC12
TM.1ll&  T.gluiuAsd.muu STraknin
va pVo_  h      _m     Da ab d 801UU
NaeofPskam                                US$ ML Id     Ms4ho      (AOdndeYad
$ei FadMhI:                                  027            hub          Q34494
Air PolWi  Mmoif:                            025           shut i.          Q394
FMB'
..o*.dswloKt am*uykwudy                     0.10     hdMduaiml IF           0394
-safwdedswpa    falhyplamu*  U ofMkk         00      hiivl emd*m            Q394
_iuoir:                                      02t           datkis    0394-0195
Raimuuoldumilsu                             0.38     htWMdudep ts           0394
Foreiuyrkaqs PIm                            10h dht                         0394
- MinWtuMit Nd PfeOUMMW QCWlnq              0.50            dshtkB          0394
*ovsu;CegrwedIs                              0.10    kd      hluIaped    prjawte
Sutatk Toluis Consul"t_s SdIsbon            4
TI*m                                         236              htudgiai
TOTAL                  =        :
TOM      PMY"=             Po          Total
US$  U                  i)onsta __ Pnqac           C2"    m      "(un
Shust 4WIA                                                              Uiz
kduambt                                     0AS         0.06           0.04          7
Inildudlbms                                W0.70         0.07          0.05         @2
4.          0.46           030          .31
Trah*i                                       20          0.25          0.16         231
Tdoal                     7           0.71           0SA          __
(a) ukadss   uid       om mna



Proportion                        Proportions of Different Assortments
of volume                                  Principles for Pine
Top diameter
(cm)
Fuelwood          3-7
Pulpwood          7-12
Small saw logs   12- 15
Saw logs         15 - 25
Veneer logs        25+
20                       60            80              100                           Age
cakfc4\w54269



IBRD 25408
BELARUS
-  LATVIA                  0                                                                        FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
FORESTLAND DISTRIBUTION
SHARE OF FORESTED AREA IN TOTAL LAND:
/PI    9  .sk                                                                     LESS THAN 50.0%
LITHUANIA                          /    X                V            >             - > 3    FEDEETION                                               50.0 - 70.0%
-vi 9   v+                                                   .70.1 - 80.0%
MORE THAN 80.0%
AGRO-CLIMATIC ZONES:
FED.                                                                                                                                                   I    NORTHERN - Moist Zone with Annual
Orsho   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~k                   Preciptatn of 700-750mm,
0 XK  /  -< 8   Orsha  j                            570-620rnnm ET, < 42k.col/cM2
>  .tz   \   BorisovL I   CENTRAL - Medium Moisture Zone, with
0                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annual Precipitation of 620-700mm,
570-590mm ET, 43-46k.col/cM2
I II NeJSOUTHERN - Moisture Deficient Zone, with
0  m                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annual Precipitation of < 620mm,
t @Grodno                                                          Lida O )  { (J 59MINSK k 4 % Krkhv4 [ A540-570mm ET, > 46k.cal/CM2
-      A  AGRO-CUMATnC ZONE BOUNDARIES
My~'Riers
o    Seleced cities
Stutsk                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Oblast capitals
*    National capital
POLAND                                                                                    (                                                                                 \/ >_gorsk < 55 >>   -Oblost boundaries
Internctional boundaries
Kobein                       Luni                                                                                               R       F        ithun
IOMETER5                       0 50  100                                      Ue
<~~~~~______________                                               The bo,,ndaznos, cola,., deno,ninaofan. and  any fother lnfo,-mrotiot io                   M      ld        v
| t,^l~MLES 0                    50             100                   endorsment or omepdflownoes oef ool, beorl.    o n '             tay         Huomngary
DECEMBER 19.3



IBRD 254C
B  E L A  R  U  S
LATVIA                                 DENSITY OF CONTAMINATION BY CESIUM  137
ZONES OF CESIUM 137 CONTAMINATION:          FRESTRY  DEVELOPMENT
1-5 curies/sq. kilometer                      PROJECT
>5-15 curies/sq. kilometer           RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATION
>15-40 ciries/sq. kilometer
- >40 curies/sq. kilometer                      Rivers
7  o   n  c  Selected Cities
0
LIT HUANIlA                     L7                   Polotsk                                                                            District Capitols
ta           V  I T E B  S K         Vitebsk                                                         Notionai Capitol
RUSSAN.                                                                                                                                                      Oblast Boundaries
EDERATION            -          International Boundaries
C,                                                              od,o,h,,oor,oo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ho.-,, -n hs-o-p do o
-   Molodechno            0                                                                                V- W-rhonovId I-,h|  - *3
t~ Lidaoo    -    /                          '   L     Mogilev
M   C  G  I L E V  Krichev
G~~~~~     ~~~~                      I N rS K    -oTi            )<>S)f/ p>d<-  
P OLAND                        BRESr                                     r.                                                   |   
Vo kovysk                        Luin0  0                     bGys O                                            Borus E    ehtox /Gmi'9rRcio 
73 D ~~ ,ploni  ZBatkovichi             Sltk          -                    hlobinroY')
f} J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  t    Boin/ rs-
I   I  V             UKRAINE                               \CJ%DIVS70NE                        II~~~~~~~~~~~DENSITY OF CONTAMINATION BY STRONTIUM 90,
D                                   TPLUTONIUM 239 AND PLUTONIUM 240
C>)  NLOMEtERSoeRecQtS0
Bresi                    Pinsk        0      S    0                                                                0  MEOCCURS ONL
DECEMBEER 1 993



