Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25013
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37410)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 41.0 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF BELARUS
FOR THE
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
10/30/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = BYR (Belarussian Ruble)
BYR 1 = US$ 0.000546
US$ 1 =   BYR 1,830
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                            Country Assistance Strategy
DAF                            Delivered at Frontier
ERR                            Economic Rate of Return
FMIS                           Forest Management Information System
FSC                            Forest Stewardship Council
FSP                            Forestry Strategic Plan
GIS                            Geographic Information System
ICR                            Implementation Completion Report
IMF                            Intemational Monetary Fund
IRR                            Internal Rate of Return
MoF                            Ministry of Forestry
MTR                            Mid-Term Review
NPV                            Net Present Value
PEFC                           Pan-European Forest Certification
PHRD                           Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU                            Project Implementation Unit
SAR                            Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Luca Brabone
Sector Manager/Director:  Marjory-Anne Brormhead
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Benoit Bosquet



BELARUS
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT - BY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.     Project Data                                                                     1
2.     Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4.     Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               18
6.     Sustainability                                                                   19
7.     Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    20
8.     Lessons Learned                                                                  23
9.     Partner Comments                                                                 24
10.    Additional Information                                                           24
Annex I    Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2    Project Costs and Financing                                                  26
Annex 3    Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  29
Annex 4    Bank Inputs                                                                  30
Annex 5    Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  32
Annex 6    Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     33
Annex 7    List of Supporting Documents                                                 34



Project ID: P008302                                      Project Name: Forestry Development
Team Leader: William B. Magrath                          TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: October 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Forestry Development                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-37410
Country/Department: BELARUS                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (52%); Forestry
(48%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/16/1993                            Effective: 11/23/1994        01/26/1995
Appraisal:  10/13/1993    -                          MTR: 01/31/1997           07/01/1997
Approval:  05/26/1994                             Closing: 03/31/2000         04/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT OF BELARUS/MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                             Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead                    Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:  Wiliam B. Magrath                        Brian Berman
ICR Primary Author:  Benoit Bosquet
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The forestry sector has a significant role in the economy of Belarus. It accounts for around 3% of GDP
and employs 175,000 people. Forests cover ca. 40% of the national territory and are one of the few
exploitable natural resources available to the Belarus economy.



The project was designed in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of the Former Soviet Union amid
considerable optimism about the likely pace of economic restructuring. One critical and widely made
assumption at the time was that the Belarussian economy would reform into a market economy. The World
Bank shared this enthusiasm, which persisted well into the 1990s. As of August 31, 1996, the Bank's
Belarus portfolio included 11 investment projects, 2 Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grants and
several pieces of economic sector work. The general economic outlook and investment climate would
change significantly in the second half of the 1990s, however. By 2001, this project was the only one still in
activity in the Bank's portfolio.
In the forest sector, key concerns about the impact of economic restructuring included the possibility that
key recurrent expenditures especially on thinning and forest protection would not be adequately financed.
This led to the formulation of the original goal of the project, namely to restructure the forest sector so as to
optimize its contribution to the economy.
To reach this goal, the project had short-term and long-term objectives. Short-term objectives included: (i)
introduction of significant sector policy and management reforms (i.e. promoting the private sector in
forestry services and wood industries, starting the adjustment to an open economy by liberalizing prices and
reducing and eventually eliminating direct and indirect subsidies to the forestry and wood processing
sectors); (ii) reversal of the decline in wood harvesting and wood production levels, concretely boosting
annual production by about 1 million cubic meters over bark of fuel- and pulp-wood to about 3.4 million
cubic meters over bark; (iii) improvement of operating efficiency and cost-effectiveness; and (iv)
substitution for wood imports and expansion of wood exports.
The medium-term objective consisted of: (i) improving forest resource management and thereby improving
the economic value of the standing tree stock within the framework of a market-oriented sector.
These project objectives were poorly constructed and articulated, even though they reflected genuine and
sensible concems about possible discontinuities in funding for forest enterprises (leskhozy). The objectives
mixed strategic ideas, e.g. reforms (#1), cost effectiveness (#3), and improved resource management (#5),
with mechanical concerns, e.g. (#2), suggesting that the designers had not reached closure on what exactly
it was they wanted to do.
Regarding objective #2, there should also have been recognition that becoming involved in harvesting,
while this activity was still firmly in the hands of the State, sent mixed signals about the Bank's view that
logging belonged in the private sector. Other ways should have been investigated to deal with the risk that
harvest levels would fall than to prop up State operations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In 1999, after considerable delays in implementation, the project development objectives were rephrased as
enriching the basis for sustainable forestry development in Belarus through: (i) establishment of
high-quality forest tree seed supplies; (ii) strengthening business planning capacities at the forest
management unit-level; and (iii) introduction of new concepts and approaches to forest resource
management and technology, such as forest certification and improved forest fire management.
These objectives corresponded to the operational priorities for the remaining life of the project after partial
cancellation and early closing of some of the original components.
3.3 Original Components:
The components were as detailed in the following paragraphs. The presentation here is organized by
thematic groups (as per the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The 27 components reflect lack of focus and
unrealistic expectations about what the project would be able to achieve.
-2-



Sector Policy Reforms
(a) To increase the price to "first-takers" for standing wood and harvested roundwood (initially through
real increases in the stumpage fee, and thereafter through open-market price setting); and through this
mechanism to increase the recovery of costs of current and past investments in forestry by the national
treasury;
(b) to reduce the budget-subsidy element in the financing of forestry operations;
(c) to support the establishment of the open market for wood and wood products, and forest services;
(d) to promote the development of private sector services to forestry (particularly harvesting and
transport);
(e) to further liberalize Belarus' international trade (both exports and imports) in wood and wood
products; and
(f) to commence, through staff training and new systems development, the restructuring process of the
Ministry of Forestry (MoF) and its rayon-level enterprises for the eventual rationalization and
privatization of operations not directly related to forest resource management and forest regulation.
Improved Forest Productivity
(g) To improve the sustainable management of the forestry resource through intensified silviculture
(thinning) and the provision of expanded equipment capacity;
(h) to provide spare parts and equipment rehabilitation to reverse the downward trend in harvesting
capacity due to old equipment;
(i) to improve the supply of high quality, genetically selected planting materials by expanding and
upgrading the MoF's forest seed processing and storage and nursery facilities;
(j) to support a pilot program for pruning, to develop high value "clear-wood" timber.
Forest Fire Protection
(k) To provide adequate protection against forest fires, while maintaining a reasonable risk-cost balance;
(1) to ensure adequate and timely response to fires in the Chemobyl-contaminated zones to prevent smoke
plume dispersion of radionuclide contamination.
Forest Ecology
(m) To strengthen in MoF regulatory and enforcement capacity in the forests in general, and the sensitive
areas in particular (e.g. wetland forests) ensuring appropriate performance and practices by workers,
contractors and also the public users of forest resources (i.e. recreation, hunting and gathering);
(n) to introduce revised ecological standards into MoF's resource management for both the general forest
stock and for forestry in sensitive ecological areas (e.g. wetlands, peat soils, etc.);
(o) to reduce the ecological impact of mechanization during harvesting through the selection of appropriate
harvesting systems and improved training, regulation, and supervision of harvesting contractors;
- 3-



(p) to monitor and manage specific forest-ecological problems, i.e. air pollution damage and radionuclide
contaminants of the forests and forest lands, forestry on wetlands and drained wetlands;
(q) to improve the monitoring and management of forest workers' exposure to radioactivity;
(r) to improve the safety-monitoring, quality control and certification of wood harvested from the
Chemobyl-contaminated forests.
Technical Assistance and Institution Building
(s) To promote local industry's capacity for future manufacture of forestry equipment through the
provision of initial "seed" capital for the development and testing of manufacturing prototypes;
(t) to develop a Forestry Management Information System;
(u) to upgrade forestry resource planning methodologies;
(v) to develop a medium to long-term strategic plan for the forestry sector in general, including specific
plans for the Chemobyl-contaminated forests and the wetlands forest resources;
(w) to conduct an environmental assessment of current forestry activity and the impact of future forestry
strategy;
(x) to improve human resource skills through expanded professional training and improvements in formal
forestry education, and to design and plan the changes desired in higher education in forestry;
(y) to address research and development requirements for pressing short-term problems, and to plan for
future R&D investment needs;
(z) to begin the institutional and structural adjustment process of MoF and its oblast- and
rayon-enterprises for operations in an open market economy, and eventual privatization of production
operations; and
(aa)to plan and prepare future forestry projects and investments.
3.4 Revised Components:
There are no revised components. However, some components were never implemented and the
corresponding loan amounts were reallocated or cancelled. Please also note that the Project Implementing
Unit (PIU) was used to referring to the components differently than shown in Section 3.3. The usual
presentation was as shown in Annex 2a.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was unsatisfactory. The project was poorly conceived and designed, and over-ambitious.
The choice of instruments (investment combined with policy conditions) was not suited for the challenges
facing the sector. The risks of reversals in the political commitment to reform should have been considered
and options for adjustment designed. Because there were no adjustment mechanisms built into project
design, when policy-based problems arose, the only option for the Bank amounted to delaying physical
implementation, further undermining trust and confidence in the Bank as a partner.
Conformity with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Objectives. There was no CAS yet for Belarus by the
time the project was appraised in October 1993. However, the project did refer to the policy reform agenda
of the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan and the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility. The project clearly
-4 -



addressed the forest sector-specific elements of the Bank's and IMF's agendas.
Safeguard Policies. Only environmental considerations were taken into account. The project was
designated as an Environment Category B project. The general environmental review indicated that the
proposed interventions of the project would all have a positive impact on the environment. All the issues
identified as potential problems by this and other environment-related reviews during project preparation
were to be addressed by the Forestry Strategic Plan, one of the components of the Project.
With respect to consultations, systematic stakeholder consultation was not mandatory at the time.
However, it appears that the leskhozy were insufficiently consulted and informed about the goals of the
project and financial mechanisms of the loan, in particular its repayment. Indeed, some claim they were
misled into thinking that substantial grants would be forthcoming, while instead they signed up to repay a
loan.
Government Priorities. Generally the project responded to the Government's priorities. Indeed, the Bank
added in some components at the request of the Government (e.g. the seed center, air pollution monitoring,
and the Prototype Fund). However, the project misjudged the Government's capacity or willingness to
expedite the reforms provided for in the SAR and the Loan Agreement, which explained the delays in
effectiveness and implementation, and the unsatisfactory rating given to the project for several years. In
addition, some disagreements were not properly addressed, which affected project implementation. For
example, as regards the central objective of intensive silviculture (increased volumes of small-wood
thinnings), the Bank insisted that this was necessary for ecological and economic reasons, while the
Borrower originally refused to increase the supply of such wood in order to prevent further depressing the
local market wood price.
Quality of Design. This project suffered from design weaknesses. It was unrealistic, combining as it did a
large number of investment components with ambitious policy reforms. The problem with the large
number of components lay in the lack of local capacity at the beginning of the project.
Capacity Building. Project management staff were not prepared to deal with World Bank-imposed
procurement and accounting rules, for instance, or lacked the capacity to coordinate among the various
components.
Reasonableness ofAssumptions (demandfor project output, prices, risks). With respect to the policy
reform agenda, the Borrower and the Bank fundamentally disagreed on what could be done. The
Borrower's inability or unwillingness to liberalize stumpage fees and the prices of round wood sold to
processors, or open up wood auctions to foreigners put the Borrower and the Bank on a collision course.
Some cost assumptions were also out of line with reality, e.g. concerning the seed center (see Section 4.3).
More broadly, the project erroneously assumed that energy prices would converge with world market prices
within a few years, so that fuel wood did not become attractive relative to natural gas during the project's
implementation phase.
Risk analysis was superficial in the SAR: although risks were correctly identified, risk mitigation was
relegated to annexes (e.g., environmental risk management in Annex 7). In particular, the project did not
make any contingency planning to address the risk of the Government's non-compliance with the speed of
the wood sector policy reform agenda.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Judging against its initial objectives listed in Section 3. 1, and the revised objectives of Section 3.2, and
-5-



despite many years of unsatisfactory supervision ratings, the project can be deemed satisfactory. This
conclusion is based on the systematic approach of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and
recognition of the unique implementation environment and the ultimate accomplishments of the project.
Thefirst objective consisted of introducing significant sector policy and management reforms, i.e.
promoting the private sector in forestry services and wood industries, starting the adjustment to an open
economy by liberalizing prices and reducing and eventually eliminating direct and indirect subsidies to the
forestry and wood processing sectors.
These reforms were encapsulated in a Memorandum of Understanding between Belarus and the Bank in
February 1996. This Memorandum of Understanding provided inter alia for: (i) abolishing export quotas
and licenses of wood and wood products; (ii) introducing "open market" wood sales besides auctions, and
increasing their share progressively over time; (iii) keeping wood auctions open to all qualified bidders; (iv)
publishing the open volumes allocated for open market sales in the general press; and (v) clearly
distinguishing between the categories of consumers entitled to administrative allocations of wood and those
subject to open market sales. Policy changes have taken place on all five counts, so strictly speaking, the
first objective has been met.
Admittedly, considerable administrative discretion is applied to wood allocation and there is still room for
inefficiency and distortion. The commanding heights of the wood industry have not been challenged and
the impact of reforms on leskhoz management has not been profound. Illustratively, currently private
companies carry out only about 2% of all forest harvesting.
The second objective was to reverse the decline in wood harvesting and wood production levels, concretely
boosting annual production by about 1 million cubic meters over bark of fuel- and pulp-wood to about 3.4
million cubic meters over bark.
Table I shows the dynamic in wood harvesting volumes qualifying as "principal uses," i.e. cuts done for
commercial purposes in mature forests, exclusive of thinning operations and sanitary cuts. Principal uses
make up around half of the total cuts. The trend shows a 25% decline in conmmercial harvesting over the
period 1991-2001. It is not possible to determine how severe the decline would have been in the absence of
the project, but in all likelihood the decline would have been steeper without the equipment procured under
the project.
Table 1: Wood Harvesting in Belarus - Principal Uses (million m3)
1991        5.4
1992        5.2
1993        4.9
1994        4.5
1995        4.2
1996        3.9
1997        3.7
1998        4.1
1999        4.0
2000        5.4
2001         4.1
With respect to wood production, production of fire wood and pulpwood has remained virtually unchanged.
-6-



The third objective was to improve operating efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Comprehensive data do not
exist, but based on very limited information, there is reason to believe that the project has indeed helped
leskhozy become more efficient. In the Mogilevsky leskhoz, it is reported that one man-day was 20% more
productive in 2001 than in 1995 (6.9 compared to 5.8 m3/man day) and that roughly 40% less gasoline
was needed for thinning operations (0.27 compared to 0.43 litre/m3).
These improvements are owed in part to the higher efficiency of equipment purchased under the project
than was available locally beforehand. For example, the Stihl and Husqvarna chainsaws for logging trees
consume about 0.2 liter of gasoline per cubic meter felled, whereas the old Ural MP-5 model consumes
0.31 1/m3.
Thefourth objective was the substitution of local production for wood imports and the expansion of wood
exports. Exports of timber (mostly pulp wood) and sawn goods by the MoF increased almost sevenfold in
volume from 1990 to 2001 (see Table 2), though growth in exports has tapered off since the peak of 1995.
Table 2: Wood Exports from Belarus
Round wood                                        Sawn goods
Volume      Value       Price per    Volume       Value       Price per
(000 m3)   (000 US$)    m3 (US$)     (000 m3)    (000 US$)    m3 (US$)
1990             127      -            --                9      -            --
1995           1,009      32,176           32          183       9,150           50
1996             730      19,958           27          214       17,762          83
1997             894      23,435           26          428      35,524           83
1998             868      22,329           26          499      44,130           88
1999             825      19,587           24          669      60,211           90
2000             923      21,363           23          709       65,601          93
2001             543       11,558          21          345       29,871          87
(January-
June)
2002         --          --16
Note: "--" indicates that no data are available
As to wood imports, Table 3 shows that they were significantly cut back - by more than 80% for round
wood and more than 40% for sawn goods.
Table 3: Wood Imports to Belarus (000 m3)
Round wood Sawn goods
1991        629           285
1992        358           170
1993         103           20
1994          8             4
1995         10            15
-7-



1996          2             3
1997         34            25
1998         57            22
1999        144            47
2000         99            76
2001         106          164
As a result of the growth in exports and contraction in imports over the past decade, the balance of trade in
wood products has thus switched from a large deficit to a large surplus. Exports now widely exceed
imports (by over 400,000 cubic meters for round wood and close to 200,000 cubic meters for sawn goods).
Objective 4 can thus be said to have been achieved in volume terms. However, the project cannot claim full
responsibility for attaining, or failing to attain, the targets. In particular, transport policies, such as the
reduction in rail subsidies, also played a part, which cannot be distinguished from that of the project.
Nevertheless, the terms of trade have deteriorated. The value of exports has dropped by a third since 1995
largely due to the fall in market prices for Belarussian pulpwood.
One additional note is also in order with respect to the composition of exports. Of the 923,000 m3 of
timber exported in 2000, 75% were exported by the MoF, 4% by the state concem Bellesbumprom and
21% by other entities. This is to say that wood exports are still the prerogative of the public sector.
The fifth objective consisted of improving forest resource management and thereby improving the economic
value of the standing tree stock within the framework of a market-oriented sector. The two major
achievements of the project in this regard have been the establishment of the seed center and the thinning
operations carried out.
A state-of-the-art seed selection center was established outside of Minsk, with some delay compared to the
original plan, and is now operational. It collects seeds from top-quality tree gardens around the country,
stores and packages them, or produces seedlings from them. Eight percent of the operations carried out by
the center are mechanized, which allows a great degree of accuracy and standardization. It is expected that
the productivity of forests planted with material from the center would be 10-20% higher than stands grown
in the traditional methods. The products of the center are meant to be sold on the domestic market or
exported. Sales by the center are due to begin in 2003. More research is needed on the economics of the
center, however (see Section 4.3). The Minsk center has two regional satellites playing essentially the same
role, in Ivatsevichi (Brest Oblast) and Glubokoe (Vitebsk Oblast).
Thinnings were financed under the Loan only in 1996-1997. After three natural disasters hit Belarus,
namely the catastrophic storm of June 26, 1997, the drying of spruce stands and the infection of pine
stands, the World Bank recognized the need for reallocating resources from the intensive silvicuture
component to sanitary fellings. As a result, less than a quarter of the loan resources originally allocated to
thinning were effectively used for that purpose. The national budget had to fill the deficit. Other reasons
for reducing the level of thinnings were that Ukraine imposed a Value Added Tax on Belarussian pulpwood
exports and Scandinavia reduced its pulpwood import quotas. In total, 636,000 ha were thinned over the
period of the Project, financed by both the loan and the national budget. These operations produced over
16,000 m3 of wood. The plan for 2002 is to thin an area of 96,000 ha, which is 70% more than in 1997.
In 1997, 30% of the area was thinned using funds from the loan. In 2002, the state budget finances
thinnings in totality.
In summary, objectives 1, 3, 4 and 5 were at least partially achieved, while objective 2 was not.
4.2 Outputs by components:
- 8-



The SAR made some very summary plans (sketched in just two paragraphs) for a project monitoring and
evaluation system. Implementation of such a system is still incomplete. Some components have a
functioning information system, others do not. The PIU does not have access to a centralized system.
Given the large number of components (27), some of which overlap each other, and the large number of
executing agencies, reporting on the project outputs is a challenge. A preliminary assessment of the
outputs by components follows hereafter.
Given the reorganization of components since the SAR, the presentation below cannot give the level of
financing at SAR and completion. The costs per components, as they were accounted for in the PlU's
information system, can be found in Annex 2a.
It must also be noted that the PrU referred to the components using a different breakdown than that used in
the SAR. This breakdown appears in the Annexes (e.g. Annexes 2a and 2c). However, in an attempt to
reconcile reality and plan, the paragraphs below, as well as Annex 5, follow the SAR structure to the extent
possible.
Sector Policy Reforms
(a) To increase the price for standing wood and harvested roundwood
Over the period of 1996-2001, stumpage fees were indeed raised. Whereas in 1996 the lowest timber
stumpage fee was equivalent to US$ 0.03 for a cubic meter of aspen, speckled alder or poplar of the
lowest quality, and the highest stumpage fee was equivalent to US$ 9 for a cubic meter of oak, ash or
maple of the highest quality, by 2001 the corresponding values had become USS 0.03 and US$ 23 for
the same species. In other words, the spread between least and most precious species increased,
allowing a better capture of the timber rent.
Rating: S
(b) To reduce the budget-subsidy element in the financing offorestry operations
In 1994 leskhozy drew 71 % of their financing from the local (rayon) budget and the remaining 29%
from the sales of their production. By 2000, the ratio had decreased to 61-39, suggesting that leskhozy
have had to become less dependent on budget subsidies.
Rating: S
(c) To support an open market for wood and wood products
At the beginning of 1996 so-called "market sales" represented 16% of total volumes of wood cut, the
remainder being reserves for sales at fixed, low prices. Since the end of 1998 market sales have
represented 80% of total volumes of wood cut in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding
between the Government of Belarus and the Bank "for the Development and Implementation of an
Action Plan for Forestry Sector Policy Reform" of February 1996.
The current pricing system for standing wood is synthesized in Table 4. The "market sales" referred to
above breakdown into competitive auctions, where prices fluctuate freely as a result of supply and
demand, and contractual prices - the predominant sales type in Belarus - where prices are a regulated
multiple of stumpage fees.
-9-



Rating: S
-10-



Table 4: Pricing System for Sales of Standing Wood
Sales type    Share of     Price formation               Revenue allocation
total sales
Auctions      20%          Competitive process            The local (rayon) budget receives the
amount equivalent to the stumpage
fee level. The difference is shared by
the leskhoz (80%) and the rayon
budget (20%)
Contractual   60%          Stumpage level times a factor of  The local (rayon) budget receives the
prices                     1.2 to 1.8, depending on the type  amount equivalent to the stumpage
of soil and hauling distance   fee level. The difference is shared by
the leskhoz (80%) and the rayon
budget (20%)
Stumpage      40%          Regulatory stumpage fee level  The local (rayon) budget receives
fees                                                      100% of the proceeds
(d) To promote the development ofprivate sector services to forestry
As noted, private sector participation in the harvesting sector is still very marginal (private companies
carrying out only about 2% of all forest harvesting). The large forest sector concern Bellesbumprom
still plays the most significant role in wood exports, though some joint stock companies are now
exporting significant volumes as well.
Still, the forest sector is generally more open to the private sector and more competitive than its parent
- the agricultural sector.
Also on the positive side, trainers from the university and private firms teach courses at the training
facility near Minsk. Still, this is a very modest achievement.
Rating: U
(e) To further liberalize international trade in wood and wood products
As noted earlier, export quotas and licenses of wood and wood products have been abolished.
Rating: S
(f) To commence, through staff training and new systems development, the restructuring process of the
MoF and its rayon-level enterprises
New educational programs were designed in the fields of silviculture, reforestation, forest economics,
forest pathology, etc. Accordingly new specializations were opened by the Belarussian State
Technological University. Study trips were organized to leading academic institutions in neighboring
countries. Computer, laboratory and classroom equipment was procured. 66 outstanding foresters
benefited from practical work experience in Finland. Two modules of the Forest Management
- 1 1 -



Information System (FMIS) were designed and are being installed throughout the country. Cohorts of
dozens of managers and specialists from around the country attend a two-week course on the FMIS at
a training facility near Minsk covering such disciplines as basic computer science, forest accounting,
Geographic Information System (GIS), etc. This training center finally opened in November 2001. It
is equipped with modem computers loaded with GIS and FMIS. In total about 3,000 managers and
specialists and 2,000 workers have received some form of training thanks to the project.
Rating: S
Improved Forest Productivity
(g) To improve sustainable management through intensified silviculture
Aggressive thinning and post-hurricane salvage logging program has taken place thanks to the bush
cutters and chain saws procured under the Project. See the discussion of the physical outputs in
Section 4.1.
Rating: S
(h) To provide spare parts and equipment rehabilitation
Spare parts were provided for 1,660 chainsaws, 90 hydraulic manipulators, 35 trucks and 42 tractors.
In addition, a training program for operators and mechanics of logging equipment was organized.
Rating: S
(i) To improve the supply of genetically selected planting materials
After long procurement delays due to the necessary allocation of land, the national and two regional
seed selection centers were created. See the discussion of the seed selection center in Section 4.3.
Rating: S
(j) To support a pilot program for pruning
The World Bank Supervision mission of April 22-26, 1996 agreed with the decision of the MoF to
cancel the pilot pruning program.
Rating: not applicable
Forest Fire Protection
(k) and (1) To provide adequate protection against forest fires
The basic objective here was to improve the equipment of obsolete fire-fighting services and reduce the
dangers of re-emissions to the environment of radionuclides due to letting Chernobyl-contaminated
biomass burn out of control. The project procured cars with increased cross-country ability as well as
bicycles for the forest protection service, and even four high-speed and economical detection aircraft
IL-103. Radios were mounted on both aircraft and cars for improving communications. For forest fire
suppression per se, the following items were procured: fire engines based on different truck and tractor
- 12-



frames, tractors with fire fighting capacity, motorized water pumps, water containers and helicopter
buckets. Some procurement problems occurred in the purchase of motor pumps.
Rating: S
Forest Ecology
(m) To strengthen MoF's regulatory and enforcement capacity
In 2000 the Parliament of the Republic of Belarus adopted the Forest Code, the basic document
defining and regulating relations in the forest sector. In particular, the Forest Code defines the
functions of the Ministry of Forestry (now known as the Committee of Forestry), and strengthens the
regulation and control functions of the Committee of Forestry.
Rating: S
(n) and (o) To introduce revised ecological standards into MoF's resource management
During Project implementation the MoF gradually reinforced ecological standards. For example, in
relation to forestry operations on wetlands and peat soils, a group of scientists developed the strategy
for conservation, rational and multipurpose utilization of nature and resource potential of wetlands of
the forest fund of Belarus (also see objectives (f), (g) and (v)).
Rating: Marginally S
(p), (q) and (r) Monitoring of air pollution and radionuclide contamination
These components demanded the procurement of appropriate equipment to improve the systems of
conventional pollution and radionuclide monitoring of forest areas, forest products and forestry sector
work places, and the monitoring of doses of radiation ingested by forest workers.
As far as conventional air pollution is concerned, there was a need for better understanding of
defoliation problems, taking remedial action against local-source emissions and documenting evidence
of transboundary pollution. Samples of air, soil, water and vegetation from 81 permanent monitoring
sites throughout the country are analyzed at the new central laboratory in Minsk. The laboratory was
installed in 2001 and sends its data to the European Coordination Center for Forest Monitoring in
Hamburg, Germany. The system of monitoring will be expanded to reach 1,450 monitoring sites of 64
km2 each relying on budgetary resources only.
With respect to radiation on the whole, the project allowed the existing park of radiation monitoring
equipment to be expanded by about 10%. The equipment was useful to expand the monitoring of soil,
timber and forest products, forest workers and work places. The 14 spectrometers (or three times what
was available before), 10 radiometers, and 10 dosimeters improved the accuracy of data on the
radioactivity of Belarussian forests. Sixteen leskhozy are now covered, i.e. 1,720,000 ha (20% of total
land under MoF's purview) plus some kolkhoz land, which was not planned at appraisal. Twenty two
percent more forest products were tested annually over the period 1999-2001 than in 1996. Dosimetric
control was carried out on about 1,000 workers was estimated each year.
It is now known that 21% of the total forest area of Belarus was contaminated to various degrees by
the Chemobyl accident. Monitoring revealed no major surprises, except that some agricultural land in
the Minsk Oblast was found to be contaminated by up to 1 Cu/km2. Regarding products, increases in
- 13 -



Cesium radioactivity were recorded in timber after 1989, but there have been no increases over the past
3 years, and indeed reductions are expected. Radioactive-free certificates are now issued for timber
exports. Berries and mushrooms will be contaminated for a long time to come as migration of
radionuclides down the soil is very slow. In this respect, no real tendency has been noted to date.
Various sets of standards for forestry work in contaminated areas were issued and awareness materials
such as placards and brochures were published. However, more resources could have been allocated to
information (including television campaigns, brochures, and school textbooks).
Overall this component has allowed Belarus to meet its pollution monitoring needs.
Rating: S
Technical Assistance and Institution Building
(s) To promote local industry's capacityforfuture manufacture offorestry equipment
The idea here was to provide some seed capital to create a Prototype Fund, which would stimulate
industry investments into the development of competitive equipment for the forest sector. Local
products would substitute for imports that were both expensive and had to be paid for in scarce foreign
currency. The final investment program of the Prototype Fund was approved by the MoF as late as
1999, and submitted to the World Bank for no-objection. The World Bank rejected the idea as it
distracted from the priorities for the sector. Despite the absence of resources under the Loan, the
Prototype Fund went ahead and developed over 15 different implements meant to improve productivity
in the forest sector using budget resources.
Rating: U
(t) and (u) To develop a Forestry Management Information System
Also see Section 4.2 (f). Based on the various field visits, the system is being deployed both in Minsk
and locally and able to generate relevant information to managers. Each leskhoz has a minimum of 3
workstations capable of operating a GIS and FMIS. However, the system is not yet integrated: it
requires substantial manual re-inputs and has not done away with significant paper trails. Regrettably
the FMIS was not implemented earlier. The forestry and personnel modules of the FMIS are operating,
but the accounting and economics modules are still under development. Thus periodic financial reports
still cannot be generated. So far, the GIS and FMIS are also not integrated. Regrettably, counterpart
financing is lacking, which questions the viability of the component. Nevertheless, what has been
achieved represents a considerable improvement in information generation and use compared to the
pre-project situation. Some of the achievements are impressive given that even computers are very new
to most foresters in Belarus.
Rating: Marginally S
(v) Wetlands monitoring
See also (n) and (o). The purpose was to develop a strategy and action plan for the conservation and
rational use of forest wetlands. Unfortunately, no money was allocated for implementation of this
component. The US$ 0.5 million originally allocated to this component under the loan was cancelled
and the money reallocated to other components in 1997, after the government of Denmark informed the
- 14 -



government of Belarus of its intention to fund the component. Unfortunately, after the European Union
advised Demnark to suspend technical assistance to Belarus, the government of Denmark notified that
it would be unable to fund the component. The national budget financed the strategy, but there is now
no money left to fund the implementation phase. For example, the strategy provides for monitoring a
number of indicators pertaining to ground water quality, vegetation, biodiversity, soils and the
condition of drainage systems at 20 research stations. But in 2002 the resources available from the
budget made it possible to research ground water quality at three stations only. To the extent that the
SAR did not provide for this component to cover implementation aspects, but only the establishment of
a monitoring system, the outcome cannot be said to be unsatisfactory. However, the sustainability of
the component is clearly in question, hence the marginally satisfactory rating.
Rating: Marginally S
(w) To conduct an environmental assessment offorestry activity
Subsumed under (f), (g), (n) and (o)
(x) To improve human resource skills through expanded professional training and improvements in
formalforestry education
Subsumed under (f)
(y) Research and development
The purpose was to review research priorities over the next decade by undertaking a 1 0-year research
plan. One of the main achievements of this component was the Forestry Strategic Plan (FSP), which
integrates lessons on forestry from Belarus and Scandinavia to serve as the guide for scholars and
practitioners. This was an example of successful integration of foreign technical assistance and local
expertise. As expected, the FSP lays out the directions for the future of Belarussian forestry, including
the framework for future investment projects.
Another achievement was the creation of a satellite imagery interpretation center, which was
operational as of April 2002. The center is capable of analyzing ecosystem health, assessing the
impact of fires, etc., based on a variety of satellite images acquired for a fee or free of charge. The
center represents a significant step forward in the national capacity to use information for management
purposes.
Rating: S
(z) To begin the institutional and structural adjustment process of MoF and its oblast- and
rayon-enterprises for operations in an open market economy
Subsumed under (a) through (f)
(aa)To plan and prepare future forestry projects and investment
The PIU has proposed to build on the positive steps taken in establishing a forest certification system in
Belarus, which were supported from the WWF-World Bank Alliance.
- 15-



The MoF has requested more support for afforestation indicating that the national budget allocation for
afforestation activities on 300,000 ha using the planting material produced by the seed selection center
and relying on the achievements of the FMIS, fire protection and training components of the
now-closed project will be below what is needed to maintain the progress achieved under the Project.
Rating: S
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR predicted a weighted average Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project, exclusive of
technical assistance, of 33%. This composite ERR was the weighted average of the ERR for 6
components, namely silviculture, light mechanization of thinning, repair of harvesting machinery, fire
protection, the FMIS and the seed centers. Fire protection was the component with the lowest predicted
ERR (9%). The seed selection center was predicted to achieve a 39% ERR, intensive silviculture 40% and
mechanization 43%.
A new comprehensive economic analysis will not be attempted here, in part due to the lack of a monitoring
system, which could have supplied the necessary data. Instead, a discussion of the assumptions used at
appraisal is proposed to suggest that some of the quantifiable returns may differ significantly from the
actual returns.
With the benefit of hindsight, rates around 40% look suspiciously high and suggest that either benefits were
overestimated or costs were underestimated.
As regards the seed selection center, the SAR envisioned that it would produce seedlings at US$ 0.007 per
unit and sell US$ 0.03 per unit. The seed center estimates that total expenditures for growing of 1,000
seedlings amount to. BYR 91 or US$ 0.05 apiece. The breakdown given by the seed center is shown in
Table 5.
Table 5: Cost Structure of the Seed Center
(in BYR pe
1,000 seedlings)
Seeds                          23,000
Salaries                        6,500
Operation  =                     1,200
Maintenance & Repair            10,300
Administrative                 48,000
Other                           2,300
Total Cost in BYR              91,300
Total Cost in US$              $49.35
Unit Cost in US$                 $0.05
This cost does not include depreciation, however. Assuming that the seed center will produce 1.6 million
seedlings annually and based on an investment cost of US$ 6.86 million to be depreciated over 20 years,
the seed center should price its seedlings at about US$ 0.21 apiece to cover its investment cost, which is
more than the revised unit cost in Table 5. A unit price of US$ 0.05 would certainly allow the seed center
to compete internationally, while US$ 0.21 would put it among the most expensive on the market. In the
United States, for example, longleaf pine seedlings, the most expensive pine seedlings available, sell at
-16 -



between US$ 0.07 and 0.20 per seedling (based on prices quoted in August 2002 by nurseries in Alabama,
North Carolina and Virginia for quantities of 250 to 1,000 seedlings). In Germany, the indicative cost of
production for 2-year-old pine seedlings is e 0.07-0.16 and for 3-year-old spruce seedlings of 25-50 cm the
cost is no more than e 0.20. Polish seedlings are likely to be even cheaper on the reference market for
Belarus. Lannen, the supplier of most of the equipment to the seed center, confirmed that the international
market price for pine seedlings is US$ 0.15-0.25 apiece. As for the national market, a unit price of US$
0.05 may be acceptable to domestic producers if they see a real difference in quality. Leskhozy produce
their own seedlings at around US$ 0.01 apiece, albeit at a much lower quality.
Regarding intensive silviculture, one key assumption of the original analysis was that the fuel wood
produced would substitute for oil in rural areas. The unfortunate reality is that Belarus seems to be moving
away from fuel wood use for energy production. This is partly the result of fears that the combustion of
biomass contaminated by Chemobyl would thus re-emit radionuclides to the environment. These fears may
not be justified if one considers that research has shown that specially equipped boilers capture
radionuclides in the ashes. This is also partly the result of a govemmental drive to gasify rural areas, in
spite of the likely price increases that will affect natural gas in Belarus as exports from Russia become
liberalized. The SAR assumed that the price of domestic fuelwood would rise to US$ 1 /m3. In reality, in
2002 Belarus barely eams US$ 1 5/m3 (price DAF) on round wood of commercial quality and destined for
exports and less than US$ 5/m3 (price at the leskhoz' warehouse) on round wood for the domestic market.
The Project has allowed a reduction in operating costs, in particular fuel costs, by purchasing modem
chainsaws. For example, the fuel efficiency of Stihl or Husqvarna chainsaws is around 0.2 liter of gasoline
per m3 of timber logged, compared to 0.31 V/m3 for the older Ural MP-5 type. 2,170 chainsaws were
purchased under the Project at an average unit cost of US$ 290, corresponding to an investment cost of
about US$ 629,000. Assuming that chainsaws have a lifetime of 10 years, which is on the long side, and a
discount rate of 10%, the net present value (NPV) of this investment is negative if the only benefits (cost
savings) result from increased fuel economy. The NPV is very sensitive to maintenance costs, however. If
the investment allows savings in maintenance costs of 15-20%, the Net Present Value (NPV) becomes
positive. This points to the need for careful maintenance of the newly acquired equipment. See Annex 3 for
details.
The discussion above is obviously incomplete. The Project has realized significant benefits such as
improvements in education, training, strategy, research and data analysis, which will materialize only in the
long term. These benefits can hardly be quantified. In addition, the thinning and sanitary felling program
will improve forest productivity and reduce susceptibility to fires.
However, some of the preceding considerations suggest that in some respects at least the SAR was
overoptimistic, though in the case of the seed center, it may take some time to adjust or indeed properly
calculate production costs. In the case of intensive silviculture, the drop in export market prices has been
detrimental to the Project's economics.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project has helped Belarus face some of the long-term challenges of its forest sector. First and
foremost, the project helped adopt the forest strategy that will guide Belarussian forestry in the coming
decade. The Project provided, if not the actual funding, the framework for the development and initial
pursuit of the strategy. The Ministry (now Committee) of Forestry consistently refers to the strategy and
has genuine ownership in it.
- 17 -



Second, the PIU team acquired a solid handle on modem methods of public procurement, financial
management and reporting. Because of the way implementation was structured, with technical
responsibility for components scattered across the sector and Ministry, a large number of people were
involved in preparing specifications and evaluating bids. This represented an entirely new way of doing
business and a major institutional development achievement.
Third, the project supported the introduction of market mechanisms such forest auctions and certification,
which increase resource use efficiency and render exports more attractive.
Fourth, the thinning program financed by the project will stimulate forest growth and reduce vulnerability
to fires and diseases and could, if demand also followed, provide raw material for replacing expensive and
polluting oil, coal and gas imports.
Fifth, the project undoubtedly developed national capacity in forest management. Modem equipment and
software were introduced, which will provide better data and diagnostic capacity. The human potential will
also develop as a result of better equipment, training and applied research.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project faced unfavorable market prices: pulpwood prices Delivered at Frontier (DAF) decreased from
over US$ 30/m3 in the mid-1990s to US$ 16/m3 in 2002. This impacted the viability of intensive
silviculture but was outside of the Government's control, let alone that the PIU's.
The natural disasters that occurred in the early years of project implementation, such as the hurricane, the
drying spruce disease and the nun moth infestation, all of which diverted project resources to emergency
management, were beyond anybody's control.
The specialized nature of much of the equipment procured under the project exposed the project to highly
contentious and, in some instances, predatory practices by potential suppliers. The purchase of
reconnaissance aircraft for forest fire detection, for example, was delayed by complaints from a
manufacturer of aircraft designed for entirely different purposes. Similar delays arose with respect to the
seed center and to fire pumps. Except for one instance, later declared as misprocurement, bidder
complaints proved unjustified, but nevertheless led to substantial delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The general economic and political context was unfavorable to the project. Macroeconomically, inflation
deters investment and an overvalued exchange rate imposes a defacto tax on exports.
Production or financial objectives and regulated prices imposed by the Govemment on managers of State
firms remove incentives for profitability and efficiency at the firm's level, or introduce a high degree of
uncertainty, which stifles initiative.
Privileges reserved for State firms and various forms of bureaucratic hassle deter private investment, while
intemational isolation is keeping foreign investment at bay. Even bilateral aid has suffered, as indicated by
the withdrawal of Denmark's offer to finance wetlands monitoring. With the Chemobyl catastrophe
sinking deeper into history and its memory fading away, international support for nuclear decontamination
in Belarus is waning as well.
In 1995, lack of counterpart financing meant that no budget was available to pay duties on imported goods.
Also, taxes were imposed on foreign consultants' contracts, which complicated project implementation.
On one occasion at least, in 1996, the PIU suffered from criticism from the Presidential Audit Commission
- 18-



inquiring into the PIU's financial management.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemnenting agency control:
The PIU was generally reluctant to hire foreign technical assistance, in part due to negative experience at
the beginning of the project, in part because of the need to save scarce foreign currency, in part because of
the need for using capacity deemed adequate for the tasks at hand. Likewise, the PIU insisted on procuring
goods locally as opposed to internationally. Both factors caused procurement delays and disagreements
with the World Bank. Examples included fire pumps, the seed center, and consulting services for auditing
of annual project accounts.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As discussed earlier, some cost assumptions seem to have been wrong. The investment cost of the seed
center, in particular, was underestimated: it ended up costing US$ 4.7 million compared to the initial
estimate of US$ 3.3 million. As Annex 2a shows, the costs of some other components turned out higher
than estimated at appraisal, including fire suppression, air pollution monitoring, research and training. As
far as fire suppression is concerned, there was a deliberate and legitimate policy to purchase more
equipment.than originally planned. A significant portion of the loan (US$ 7.5 million) was cancelled,
which explains why the costs of some other components ended up lower than planned initially.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The market liberalization achieved under the project, such as the increasing proportion of auctions in total
sales of standing wood, forest certification, or increased exports of round wood and sawn goods, has taken
root and is expected to extend gradually to other areas of the forest sector of Belarus. Auctions are bound
to represent an increasing share of total sales and see more buyers compete for the wood. Belarus is testing
the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Pan-European Forest Certification (PEFC) certification
systems and will likely adopt one or the other, maybe both, in the near future. Marketing efforts combined
with improvements in the design and quality of products will make Belarussian exports more attractive to
Western European and Russian markets. All of these will require the government to commit to further
liberalization, however. An important decision will be to distinguish between the forest management and
timber production of leskhozy, i.e. between the public service of budget-funded entities and the commercial
operations of forest sector enterprises. As long as the two functions are combined, and budget subsidies
are mixed with commnercial revenues, there can be very little private investment in the sector.
Questions remain as to the viability of the seed selection center. A further analysis of the center's
production costs would shed light on the question.
Some of the "soft" achievements of the project, e.g. in the areas of training, capacity building, information
and monitoring, will need continued budget support. The training center cannot survive by itself in the near
term. The wetlands monitoring plan cannot be implemented because of lack of resources. Here again, the
Government will need to commit itself to sustaining the progress registered during the project, otherwise
some of the efforts made under the project will be in vain.
Finally, it is not clear whether the import substitution aspects of the project, in particular the development
of the national capacity to design and produce its own forestry equipment, as through the Prototype Fund,
are sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
-19-



The policy reforms ushered in by the project will expand as the project moves to its operation phase. The
fact that leskhozy have started repaying the loan to the MoF Forestry with no major difficulties suggests
that they be moving towards financial viability. Leskhozy have also been given a part of the revenues of
wood sales (see Table 4), which will help them face their commercial challenges in the future.
However, to expect financial viability of all of the project's components would be illusory. The
Government has not provided for the necessary means to sustain some of the project's components. The
recent request placed to the World Bank by the Forestry Committee to write to the Government
recommending the allocation of funds for afforestation using planting material produced by the seed
selection center is but one example.
In the area of forest certification, at the request of MoF and private collaborators, the World Bank secured
resources from the World Bank/World Wide Fund for Nature Alliance to support a certification
pre-assessment in Belarus. This exercise, which was conducted on a grant basis by an independent
assessor recognized by the FSC, provided the Bank, Government and private Belarussian forest products
firms with detailed information on the quality of forestry operations, the prospects for successful
application for certification under alternative schemes, and the likely market advantages which certification
might provide in export markets.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
One key assumption underlying project design was that the Belarussian economy would reform into a
market economy. With the benefit of hindsight, we know that has not happened. To that extent, the project
was unrealistic. However, in the early 1990s, many made this assumption. The real problem is that more
consideration should have been given to the risk of reforms not happening as predicted, and contingency
planning should have been made accordingly. Instead, the Bank's preparation team seems to have ridden
the general wave of enthusiasm following the break-up of the Soviet Union. The project was one of many
in the Bank's portfolio as of the mid-1990s: as of August 31, 1996, the Bank's Belarus portfolio included
11 investment projects, 2 Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grants and several pieces of economic
sector work. Five years later, the project was the only one left still in activity.
Risks listed in the SAR of April 29, 1994 did recognize that the project was premised on the "in-depth
implementation of policy reforms" and mentioned that slow implementation of macroeconomic policy
reforms could delay sector reforms and affect project performance. However, no risk mitigation measures
or contingency planning were envisaged.
As noted earlier, the project contained as many as 27 components and several executing agencies within the
MoF. The mere implementation of such a project was a challenge for a country that had recently joined the
World Bank and emerged from decades of central planning.
A decade after the facts and with the benefit of the environmental and social safeguard policies that are now
available, it appears that the Bank, at the time, should have encouraged more public information campaign
and consultations with local stakeholders such as the leskhozy. The government adopted administrative
measures without consulting with leskhozy. Many leskhozy resented the project for that reason. In
particular they would not sign the commitment to repay the portion of the loan that accrued to them. Some
of them seem to have been under the impression that they were going to receive a grant for some of the
components, including forest fire suppression.
In sum, the project design assumed far more rapid implementation of macroeconomic reforms than in fact
-20 -



occurred and was excessively optimistic in this respect.
Rating: U
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was mixed. During the early stages, considerable effort was spent on
following up on policy issues. This involved substantial delays and compromised physical implementation
in ways from which the project never fully recovered.
The Mid-Term Review (MTR) did not meaningfully address the problems of the project. It involved
marginal reallocations among components, but did not resolve the inherent design flaws. The MTR did
however, provide a framework for addressing an episode of catastrophic storm damage and was greatly
appreciated by the Borrower.
Following a change in task team leader, there were substantial changes in the Bank's approach and in
project design. The new task team acknowledged with the Borrower the Bank's shared responsibility for
the project's problems and recommended to Bank Management a more narrow and focused approach. The
Bank began to show greater flexibility and tried to be a more constructive partner during the balance of
project implementation. Cancellation of the entire project was initially considered but rejected by the
Country Management Unit, mainly because this was the only active Bank project in Belarus. Given the
general climate of the Bank-GOB relationship, the redesign of the project needed to be limited and
components and activities of doubtful value remained in the project on the basis of Government
commitment. A more phased sequence for policy reform was accepted and emphasis placed on physical
implementation.
A substantial (US$ 7.5 million) partial cancellation (from a number of disbursement categories) and
reallocation of loan proceeds occurred in February-March 1999. At the same time the Project objectives
were restated as listed in Section 3.2 and emphasis placed on the remaining priority activities in which
progress was achievable, namely Forest Estate Business Planning, the Seed Center, the Training Center,
research, air pollution monitoring, fire suppression and radio communications equipment. Efforts were
made to hasten Bank review of procurement matters, but supplier protests and a need for two rebiddings
for the seed center again contributed to slow progress and the need for two extensions. As the Bank's
overall program in Belarus had precipitously declined, country relations issues also factored into the
Bank's decision to extend the project twice for a total duration of 25 months.
The Bank realized its own weakness in providing timely and constructive responses on procurement. Until
at least 1999, the complexity of the procurement guidance needed for this project was under estimated. As
a result the Bank contributed to delays, the need for rebidding and even the one case of misprocurement
(water pumps). The Bank should have better recognized the challenges of implementing international
procurement in a new Borrower. Without compromising its distance from project implementation and
independent review of procurement, it could have done more to support training and capacity building
through support on specific packages. The year 2000 saw the adoption of an action plan to improve the
situation, including a clearing up of the procurement backlog, and an operations analyst was added to the
task team.
Lastly, one can deplore a lack of coordination among Bank projects in Belarus. A major study on the
Pripyat wetlands was undertaken under a PHRD grant. The study produced proposals for restoring the
wetlands by returning some of the drained lands to their natural state. Although interesting, the study
results did not lead to any operation. In the meantime, the wetlands monitoring component under the
Forestry Project was running out of money for implementing its monitoring plan. The result is that two
-21 -



plans were drawn up, with little or no perspective of putting either one into practice.
Primarily because of the ineffective MTR, and despite later improvements and restructuring, the Bank's
performance during supervision was unsatisfactory.
Rating: U
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Despite the improvement in the Bank's performance late in project life, the Bank's overall performance was
unsatisfactory.
Rating: U
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was responsible for most of the preparation of the project, and placed clear requests to the
Bank at appraisal. For example, it requested including some additional components to that the Bank
proposed, including the Prototype Fund.
Rating: S
7.5 Government implementation performance:
From the very beginning the project accumulated long delays. Start-up was held up due to delayed policy
reforms. At issue was the introduction of foreign purchasers in wood auctions.
In 1995, lack of counterpart financing meant that no budget was available to pay duties on imported goods.
Also, taxes were imposed on foreign consultants' contracts, which complicated project implementation.
In 1996 the Presidential Audit Commission interfered with project management on the issue of emergency
spraying to control for pest outbreak, which distracted the PIU from its day-to-day management.
1996 also saw delays in the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding with the World Bank
rescheduling the policy reforms to be introduced under the project.
At times the Government seems to have been more motivated by the need to save foreign exchange than the
long-term development of the forestry sector.
The Government showed itself realistic when it requested the partial cancellation of the loan in 1999.
Coordination within the Government was lacking. The project promoted the adoption of fuel wood to
replace fuel oil, while the Chemobyl Committee financed a large-scale gasification program in rural areas
to do away with fuel wood use. Even among natural resources agencies, the strategy was not coherent.
For example, not enough money was allocated to wetlands monitoring under the MoF, while a new tender
for observation and conservation of biodiversity in wetlands was launched by the Ministry of Ecology.
Rating: U
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU proved resourceful in difficult times and managed to stay the course. Continuity and much
independence at the levels of the PIU and Project director ensured that the project delivered a great deal of
what it set out to do.
Procurement delays and problems started early. In 1996, the Bank rejected procurement packages because
they were found not to reflect the intent of original project design. Misprocurement was declared with the
-22-



first batch of fire pumps and several attempts were needed to procure the seed center. These procurement
problems nearly brought implementation to a halt in 1999. With better performance from the Bank on
procurement matters and stronger technical support on the seed center, particularly, the Borrower was
ultimately able to conduct a complex procurement sequence to a high standard.
Another problem and cause of disagreement between the PIU and the Bank involved the selection of
consultants to draw up business plans for leskhozy. The PIU insisted on using local consultants for this
task. However, the Bank found local consultants to be too academic and ill-equipped to meet the
challenges. The Bank expressed disappointment at the slow pace and limited effort being made at forest
estate business planning. Efforts to utilize local specialists were not successful because of a lack of
experience with the required analytic techniques and an unwillingness or inability to consider the possibility
of changes in routine planning, budgeting, silviculture and other aspect of forest estate operations. While
these difficulties were not unpredictable, it is certainly clear now that international technical assistance is
needed for efforts in forest estate business planning to have impact.
Despite these shortcomings, the PIU's performance was satisfactory.
Rating: S
7.7 Overall Bonrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is found satisfactory.
Rating: S
8. Lessons Learned
The project would have benefited from better sector knowledge. The Bank would have been in a better
position to identify the policy constraints to forestry sector development.
The project design should have been kept simple. This project provided an example of what not to do in
this regard. This project included 27 components, some of which overlapped each other. This made the
task of monitoring and evaluation insurmountable. For a first-time Borrower, a simpler project with little or
no conditionality might be preferable, since both sides are still just getting to know each other's procedures
and institutions.
Simplicity should also apply to various aspects of project management. The number of disbursement
categories in this project should have been kept reasonable. This project included 13 such categories,
forcing the task team and PIU to conduct numerous reallocations and Loan Agreement Amendments in the
course of implementation.
Local capacity in procurement, accounting and auditing must be in place before launching a major project.
Economic analysis assumptions should have been more critically checked during the internal review
process prior to Bank approval. As the analysis for the seed center suggests, the commercial viability of
the facility is in question because of higher-than-expected costs.
Flexibility in project management is needed in times of crisis, such as the reallocation of Loan proceeds
following the violent hurricane in this project. Unexpected events may warrant diverging from initial
priorities and final project evaluation should be done with the revised priorities in mind.
At a time when the deterioration in the overall situation of a country results in a drastic reduction in the
number of foreign-funded operations, including in the Bank's portfolio, to keep at least one Bank project
open may help reassure the Borrower of the Bank's client responsiveness.
- 23 -



may help sustain the dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implenmenting agency:
Note: Comments on the draft ICR were received from the Borrower on October 16, 2002. They
concemed the rating that had been proposed for the wetlands monitoring component and the economic
analysis of the Seed Center. These comments were incorporated in the final ICR. These comments are
available from the Project files.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
-24-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a - Project Costs by Component
Appraisal   Revised      Actual    Actual/Appraisal
ntensive silviculture   12,822,500  11,274,000   11,184,028         87%
Spare parts               3,100,000  1,516,000    1,515,68           49%
Seed center               3,983,700  6,210,000    5,864,958         147%
Fire suppression          5,000,000  7,038,112    7,055,912         141%
Airpollution monitoring    550,000    874,320      873,243         159%
FMIS                      1,790,000  1,783,000     1,783,000        100%
Research                  1,080,000  1,699,995    1,699,995         157%
Education                  300,000    313,681      313,681          105%
Manpower training          500,000   1,336,320    1,336,320        267%
PU                        600,000     459,09       459,092          77%
Wetlands monitoring        514,500     0           0                 0%
Radioactive monitoring     500,000    495,68       495,684          99%
est management            864,600     769,83       769,64           89%
Strategic plan              0          0           0            n.a.
Prototype Fund           2,000,000      6,755         6,755           0%
ther technical assistance  500,00       17,009        6,733           1%
Marketing                  0           74,676        74,676     n.a.
Unallocated               7,794,70     0           0                 0%
Total                   41,900,00   33,868,474   33,439,413         80%
Annex 2a bis - Project Costs by Expenditure Category
Category  Category Description       Allocated USD  Undisbursed     Disbursed
USD            USD
1         GOODS,EQUIPMENT EXC            25,017,611       -164,663    25,182,273
1-A       GOODS,EQUIPMENT PART            1,134,077      0             1,134,077
2        ITECH. ASSISTANCE EXC             394,155              -1       394,156
2-A       TECH. ASSISTANCE EXC              15,118       0                15,118
3         TRAINING- 100T                   250,000          23,369       226,631
4         FORESTRY PROG. FOR A            1,407,181      0             1,407,181
5-A       SPECIAL SERV. A-9                0             0              0
5-B       SPECIAL SERV. B-1               1,162,687           283      1,162,404
5-C       SPECIAL SERV. B-2               1,151,090        -35,854     1,186,944
5-D       SPECIAL SERV. B-4                300,000         300,000      0
5-E       SPECIAL SERV. - A-10               4,000       0                 4,000
6         CIVIL WORKS A-5                 3,032,556        305,556     2,727,001
7         UNALLOCATED                      0             0              0
SA-A      $2,000,000 CAT.1-5               0                  372          -372
Totals (for all 14 Categories)  33,868,474       429,062    33,439,413
-26-



Annex 2b - Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Categories  ICB         DC          IS       NS      LIB   All other  Total
Equipment and other   $19,207,463  $2,295,474 $3,517,423 $155,590 $6,303         $25,182,253
materials
Equipment and materials             $849,29    $228,055         $56,73            $1,134,077
for Part A.10 
Technical assistance                                                     $394,156   $394,156
Technical assistance for             $15,118                                         $15,118
Part A.10 
Training                                                                 $226,631   $226,631
Forestry program                                                       $1,407,181  $1,407,181
Special services for                                                                     $0
wetlands activities
Special services for FMIS  $1,162,404                                             $1,162,404
Special services for   $1,161,13                $25,805                           $1,186,944
forestry research
Special services for                                                                     $0
Prototype Fund
Special services for Part             $4,00                                           $4,000
A.10
Civil works            $2,727,001                                                 $2,727,001
Total                 $24,258,006  $3,163,884 $3,771,283 $155,590 $63,033 $2,027,968 $33,439,764
ICB = intemational competitive bidding
DC = direct contracting
NS = national shopping
IS = intemational shopping
LIB = limited intemational bidding
-27-



Annex 2c - Project Financing by Component
Revised allocations  Total disbursed from
Component            (as of 1999)            1995            Undisbursed         % disbursed
(as of Sept. 1, 2002)
Loan     Budget       Loan       Budget I Loan   Budget    Loan      Budget
1. Intensive Silviculture 11,274,00(  3,444,293  11,184,02 3,444,293  89,972  0      99.20      100.00
2. Spare Parts        1,516,00(    418,87     1,515,689  418,877    3il    0         99.98      100.00
3. Selection and Seed  6,210,00(  1,000,00(   5,864,958  996,273 345,042   3,727     94.44       99.63
Center
4. Fire Management    7,038,11l   1,050,00(   7,055,912 1,043,152  -17,800  6,848   100.25       99.35
5. Air Pollution       874,32(      24,00(     873,243    4,605   1,077   19,39      99.88       19.19
Monitoring
6. FMIS               1,783,00    1,397,00    1,783,00  991,58    0      405,42     100.0        70.98
7. Forest Research    1,699,99     930,83     1,699,99  762,71    0      168,11     100.0        81.94
8. Forest Education    313,681      20,00(     313,681    9,152   0       10,848    100.0(       45.76
9. Manpower Training  1,336,320    300,00(    1,336,320  119,19   0      180,81q    100.0(       39.73
10. PIU                459,092     900,00(     459,092  619,877   0      280,123    100.0(       68.88
11. Forest Wetlands     0          280,00(     0        271,305   0        8,695    --           96.89
Monitoring
12. Radionuclide       495,684       5,00(     495,68     4,497   0         503     100.00       89.94
Monitoring
13. Pest Management    769,83       41,00      769,64     1,141     183   39,85      99.9         2.78
14. Strategic Plan      0          500,00(     0        500,00(   0        0                    100.00
15. Prototype Fund       6,755     299,00(       6,755  295,13    0        3,863    100.00       98.71
16. Other Technical     17,009     186,12(       6,73   148,212  10,276   37,913     39.59       79.63
Assistance
17. Marketing           74,676       3,87!      74,676    3,875   0        0        100.0       100.00
Sub-Total            33,868,474  10,800,00C  33,439,413 9,633,881 429,062 1,166,11   98.73       89.20
Unallocated             0          0            0         0        0       0        -          -
Total                33,868,471  10,800,00C  33,439,41 9,633,881 429,06 1,166,119    98.73       89.20
-28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Chainsaws           1996       1997     1998     1999     2000     2001    2002    2003     2004     2005
Purchase           -$629,021
Maintenance saving   $58,512  $58,512  $58,512  $58,512   $58,512  $58,512 $58,51  $58,512  $58,512 $58,512
Fuel saving          $33,303  $33,303  $33,303  $33,303   $33,303  $33,303 $33,303 $33,303  $33,303 $33,303
Cash flow          -$537,206  $91,815  $91,815  $91,815   $91,815  $91,815 $91,815 $91,81   $91,815 $91,815
NPV                  $11,050
IRR                     10%
0.07
Cost                   $290
Quantity               2170
Annual maintenance    $149.8
Maintenance saving      18%
m3/yr      1/m3      $/1     $/yr Total $/y
Thinning             470,000     0.11 0.464481  $24,014
Felling              200,000      0.1 0.464481   $9,290
$33,303
-29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                                  .
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/01/1993                  11    FORESTRY VICE-MINISTER;
PROJECT MANAGER;
CONSULTANTS (9)
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/13/1993                   6    TASK MANAGER;
FINANCIAL ECONOMIST;
LAWYER; NATURAL
RESOURCE MGT SPEC.;
ECONOMIST; FORESTRY
MECHANIZ. SPEC.
Supervision
06/10/1994                    2   Sr. Agribusiness Spec. (1)           S             S
Financial Econ. (LTC) (1)
11/24/1994                    2   Sr. Agribusiness (TM) (1)           U              U
Sr. Forester (1)
08/04/1995                    2   Task Manager (1)                     U             U
Forestry Specialist (1)
12/08/1995                    2   Sr. Agribusiness Spec. (1)          U              U
M&E Spec. (Consultant) (1)
04/26/1996                    4   Task Manager (1)                     S             S
Procurement (1)
Forestry Specialist (1)
Forestry Mechaniz. (Cons.) (1)
02/22/1997                    1   Task Manager                         U             S
07/18/1997                    5   Task Manager (1)                     S             S
M&E Consultant (1)
Forester (I)
Forestry Mech. Specialist (1)
Forestry Res./Edu. Spec. (1)
09/28/1998                    3   Task Team Leader (1)                 U             U
Economist (I)
Forester (1)
04/09/1999                    6   Mission Leader (1)                  U              U
Forestry Specialist (2)
Forestry Economist (2)
Consultant (1)
03/04/2000                    3   Mission Leader (1)                   S             S
Operations Analyst (1)
Procurement Specialist (1)
11/04/2000                    4   Mission Leader (1)                   S             S
Procurement Specialist (1)
Forest Economist (1)
- 30 -



Forestry Specialist (1)
ICR
04/01/2002                   2    LEAD NATURAL                       S             S
RESOURCE ECON;
NATURAL RESOURCES
MGT. SPEC.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                      356,077.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                                        same as above
Supervision                                                       738,931
ICR                                                          same as above
Total                                                            1,095,008
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                         O H   OSU*M       O N   O NA
Oii Sector Policies                       O H   OSU*M       O N   O NA
L Physical                                O H   *SUOM       O N   O NA
L Financial                               O H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
Li Institutional Development              0 H   * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
L Environmental                           O H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Private sector development              0 H   O SU O M    * N   0 NA
Ol Public sector management               0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Component                                                                      Rating
a      To increase the price for standing wood and harvested round wood                  S
__     To reduce the budget-subsidy element in the financing of forestry operations      S
c      To support an open market for wood and wood products                              S
d      To promote the development of private sector services to forestry                U
e      To firther liberalize intemational trade in wood and wood products                S
f      To commence the restructuring process of the MinFor and its rayon-level enterprises  S
g      To improve sustainable management through intensified silviculture                S
h      To provide spare parts and equipment rehabilitation                               S
i     ITo improve the supply of genetically selected planting materials                  S
i      To support a pilot program for pruning                                           n.a.
k and I To provide adequate protection against forest fires                              S
m      To strengthen MinFor's regulatory and enforcement capacity                        S
n and o To introduce revised ecological standards into MoF's resource management        MS
P, q   Monitoring of air pollution and radionuclide contamination                        S
and r
s      To promote local industry's capacity for future manufacture of forestry equipment  U
t and u To develop a Forestry Management Information System                             MS
v_     Wetlands monitoring                                                              MS
Research and development                                                          S
aa     To plan and prepare future forestry projects and investment                       S
Legend: S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; n.a.=not applicable; MS=Marginally satisfactory.
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS OS       *U    OHU
* Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     * U   0 HU
J Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      O U   0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The PIU, in collaboration with the various executing agencies of the Project, produced a report upon
completion of the project. The summary is reproduced below. The unabridged version is available from
the projectfiles.
Intensive Silviculture
Activities on the intensive silviculture were performed during two years - 1996 and 1997. The total area of
plants subject to thinning under the 'Intensive Silviculture' Component was determined in 1995 (37,300 ha
per year). However, the intensive drying of spruce in Belarus started the same year and immediate
sanitation felling was required at the areas of spruce forests. Because of this reason the MoF submitted to
the Bank a request and obtained the Bank's consent to partial replacing the objects of thinning with
sanitation felling and use of the Loan funds for sanitation felling at the drying spruce stands. As a result,
the revised program of thinning and sanitation felling for 1996-1997 was prepared and adopted. The MoF
determined and the World Bank approved the standard costs per hectare for each type of felling: thinning -
USD 57.20; Selective sanitation felling - USD 28.00; Entire sanitation felling - USD 252.00.
Performance of the Intensive Silviculture Program during 1996-1997:
Types of Felling   Volume - '000 Ha/ '000 m3             Sub-Total
1996                      1997'000
Ha /'000 m3
1. Thinning                     26.8 / 553.3               17.4 / 410.944.2
/964.2
2. Selective sanitation           5.9 / 84.9                 3.4 / 62.69.3
felling
/147.5
3. Entire sanitation              0.4 / 70.2                1.2 / 228.7 1.6
felling
________________________________________________/298.9
The volume of thinning made under the 'Intensive Silviculture' Component was 31 % of the total volume of
thinning made by the MoF in 1997. This allowed completing thinning at all the areas where it was
necessary.
Training was given particular attention while performing the program on intensive silviculture. In
accordance with the plans on increasing qualification of the forestry staff the national-wide seminar on
intensive silviculture was conducted at Logoisk Forest Enterprise, Minsk Oblast. Similar seminars were
conducted at all the Oblast Forest Enterprises. The foresters and senior foresters of the Forest Enterprises,
staff of the Oblast Forest Enterprises and the MoF, representatives of the Institute of Forest and design
institutions took part in these seminars. Participants of the seminars visited the places of tending felling,
were familiarized with the technical documentation and technology of thinning using chainsaws, wheeled
tractors with trailers equipped with hydraulic loaders. The total number of participants that took part in
the seminars in 1996-1997 was 480.
As a result of financial support by the World Bank of the program on intensive silviculture, procurement of
- 34-



new wood harvesting equipment under the 'Harvesting Equipment' Component of the project and spare
parts under the 'Spare Parts' Component, a quite good material base was created, qualified staff was
prepared, new progressive technologies were introduced, the quality of works was increased. These factors
become the key factors for the decision made by the MoF to refuse from use of the Loan funds for the
purposes of thinning. Starting from 1998 the tending felling, including thinning, have been financed out of
the Republican Budget funds only.
Implementation of the Forestry Development Project allowed significant increase of the volume of thinning.
It is planned to perform in year 2002 thinning at the area of 90,000 ha that is 171% to compare with year
1997.
As a result, the targets on the intensive silviculture have been achieved. The material and technical base,
staff, organizational and technological training created with assistance of the World Bank function
successfully and make for improvement of growth and development of plantation, increasing its quality and
productivity. The forests perform the ecological, economic and social functions more effectively.
Mechanization of Forest Harvesting Work.
The project stipulated to allocate USD 6.6 mln for the procurement of the logging machinery but at
intermediate review of the project, the finance volume on this component was increased up to USD 9 mln.
The finance volume increasing was stimulated by the necessity of the procurement of equipment for
elimination of hurricane consequences and a sanitation felling in the zones of drying out spruce forests.
The procurement of the logging machinery was implemented in two directions:
1.    Replacing of the exhausted and destroyed machinery.
2.     Reinforcing and increasing of the motor park power with the additional quantity of the logging
machinery.
All operators of the procured equipment passed the training programs included all matters of work and
maintenance. There were implemented the advanced technologies and methods of felling works provided
the very high level of efficiency and safety of labor. There were arranged the registration of the machinery
work and the bookkeeping for higher organizations. There were conducted a number of seminars for the
complex using of the logging machinery and the implementation of advanced technologies for the logging.
The using of all procured equipment was implemented in the frame of program "Intensive Silviculture" for
the budget sphere of the forestry, i.e. for whole complex of the sanitation and tending felling.
The effect from the using of procured equipment is created from the saving of the fuel materials, from the
implementation of new machinery and from the additional volume of the logging, owing to the increasing of
the motor park of logging machinery and the implementation of advanced technologies of logging and
hauling of the wood.
For the period from 1996 to 2001 the saving of fuel materials only owing to the implementation of the new
chainsaws made up about USD 180,000. Owing to the increasing of the park of chainsaws and other
logging machinery the volume of logging wood for thinning felling is increased on 400,000 cubic m in
average. The effect from the using of the additional quantity of the logging machinery for the thinning
felling for the period from 1996 to 2001 made up USD 890,000.
The capacity of the forest sector in the whole was reducing by the reason of the deterioration and wearing
out of the logging equipment. The average life of the machinery at the forestry enterprises was more than 7
years. Coming from the above analysis of technique state conditions there were included in the project by
- 35 -



the component "spare parts" the suggestions for procurement of the needed quantity of spare parts for
logging machinery and equipment with the purpose to extend the terms of life on 3-4 years. The project
stipulated the allocation of USD 3.1 mln for the procurement of spare parts for the logging machinery. At
the intermediate review of the project the finance volume for this component was reduced to USD 1.5 mln.
In the course of the implementation of the component there were procured spare parts for chainsaws
"Stihl" and "Huskvarna", for hydraulic loaders "Forestry-708", "Loglift-65", "HAK-7H", "LIV-2303",
for crane processor "KP-40", for the complex "Valmet-862", and also engines, accumulators and tires for
auto and tractor machinery at the expense of the local budget. In the course of the procurement of spare
parts there was arranged the registration of them and the bookkeeping of them usage. There were
conducted a training program for operating and repairing staff of the logging machinery, which included its
repairing, operating and maintenance.
The procured spare parts were used for repairing and putting into operation for about of 1660 chainsaws,
90 hydraulic manipulators, 35 timber lorries and 42 tractors.
The total economic effect from the procured spare parts for logging machinery is USD 929.4 thousand.
Besides in 90% of the forest estates there were organized workshops for repairing and maintenance of
chainsaws with the procurement of needed repairing tools. There were organized workshops for repairing
of hydraulic manipulators at the Minsk plant of automatic lines and AO "Vtorchermet", where is all needed
equipment and qualified staff.
The procurement of spare parts allowed to extent the term of the life of the import logging machinery, and
also to fulfill the program of the intensive silviculture in the planned volumes.
Seed Selection Center
In 1997, following approval of the working implementation plan for the component, specifications for
procurements were prepared; also types of equipment and machinery, quantity of the equipment were
defined in the plan.
For the period from June 1997 till May 1998 the key question on allocation of the site for the construction
of the production base of the Center was resolved.
In 1998 procurement of equipment for preparation of the soil, for planting of seeds, for seedling
management in the permanent basic nurseries of the enterprises of the forestry sector was procured in
amount of 29 sets (suppliers are 'Silvapol', Republic of Poland, and 'Egedal', Denmark).
Reconstruction of the buildings in the branches of the Center in the town Ivatsevichi and in the town
Glubokoe was made in order to install equipment for processing and storage of the seeds; the reconstruction
was made during 2000 -2001 with utilization of the budget funds. Technological equipment for the
branches of the Center was procured, installed and put into operation (the supplier 'BCC AB', Sweden).
In the period of 1999 -2000 'Working project for the construction of the center' was developed in order to
organize two stage biddings (1 st stage - construction of the center; 2nd stage - procurement of
technological equipment); this project made a basis for the bidding documentation. Based on the results of
the Bids for the construction of the Center, Belarus Company 'Soligorskpromstroj' constructed Center fro
the period from 01.09.2000 till 28.09.2001, and the Center was put into operation. Following bids
organized in 2000 -2001, technological equipment is being procured to equip the Center (the company
'Lannen', Finland).
Procurement and putting into operation equipment at the permanent basic nurseries allowed to transfer to
the new agricultural and technical method of allocation of planting departments, to the method of
- 36 -



implementation of mechanized seedling management and their chemical treatment. The level of
mechanization is about 80%.
Putting into operation of equipment on processing of cones and seeds of coniferous species allowed to
mechanize and to increase productivity of work on sorting of cones, on drying of cones, on extraction of
seeds, and dewinging.
The following will be reached as far as the Center is put into operation:
*   creation of the common system of seed service on harvesting, processing and storage of the seeds,
seed control, and growing of selection planting material with the closed root system;
*   scientifically based system of forest selection seed management will be organized, with allocation
of it into special sector of forestry.
Selection nurseries and appropriate branches in the North and in the South of the Republic will be included
into as part of the Center in order to realize this direction.
In the result of putting into operation of the Center in April 2002 the whole scope of works on forest seed
organization and forest seed management will be ensured.
Reforestation with the help of the improved and sort seeds will allow to increase productivity of stands on
10-20%. Products of the Center will conform to the international standards and allow to develop export.
The key tasks defined in the Working Program under the component were reached. In the process of
development of plans for this component, it should be taken into account that equipment on processing and
storage of forest seed raw material and seed control must be sufficient in each region of the Republic. It
would allow to ensure the full system of the seed management.
Fire Management Program
The purpose of the project component realization is to forward the loan proceeds for improving of the
equipment of fire fighting services.
For operational control of forest fund conditions there were procured cars with increased cross-country
ability and bicycles for lower section of forest protection service.
There was extended the network of automatic system for forest fire detection by infrared radiation with
television control.
For air patrolling for forest fire detection there were procured four high-speed economic aircraft IL- 103.
The good survey from aircraft cockpit allows better inspect the protected territory, that is also important by
forest fire detection. Thus the using of aircraft IL-103 allows to increase percentage of forest fire detection
in Brest and Vitebsk regions from 35% to 50% in 2001.
Navigation equipment of this aircraft allows carrying out the orientation and to inform forest services with
exact coordinates of detected forest fire. It influences on the fire elimination area, and then reduces
damage.
An average fire elimination area in Brest aircraft department in 2001 was 0.10 ha, in 2000 an area was
0.40 ha.
Radio stations "Motorolla" mounted on the aircraft IL-103 allows sending a massage on forest fire location
to forest estates on the distance of 80 km, that is in two times more than by earlier used radio stations
"Lyon".
- 37 -



The aircraft IL-103 crew consist of one pilot, AN-2 accordingly - two pilots. It allows to reduce the staff
number.
Further utilization of the aircraft IL- 103 allows to detect the forest fire more operationally, to reduce their
elimination area and then to reduce the expenses for their extinguishing.
For forest fire extinguishing there were procured the fire engines on the basis of different lorry and tractor
chassis, tractors with fire fighting devices, motopumps, water containers and helicopter buckets, air fire
fighting devices.
For operational information on forest fire occurrences and organization of work for its extinguishing,
modem communication facilities were procured. A modem communication system was created in the
forestry branch.
Effectiveness of forest fire detection was significantly increased as result of realization of measures on
component introduction. In principal, new system of forest fire detection by infrared radiation and
television control was also introduced.
The procurement of motopumps for all forest estates of Republic and paratrooper-firemen allows to
eliminate more forest and peat fires with the presence of water supply and with phased water transfer
without its transportation, which reduces the time for fire elimination.
After modemization, the emergency technological radio communication system of the forestry has got the
additional finctional potentialities under saving its organizational principles. It maximally used the modem
technologies and advance achievements in the communication field and has the high economic effectiveness,
and cover the significant territory with low density of subscribers. Operating characteristics of new
equipment are corresponded to standards of the Republic of Belarus and to high requirements to modem
radio telephone communication facilities.
Utilization of new communication system allows to increase the communication distance between the
mobile subscribers in 24 times. New radio stations have got access to Public Switched Telephone
Network.
Air Pollution Monitoring
The need for the qualitative and quantitative information on the influence of industrial and transport
pollutants on natural environment is increasing with each year, what allows to evaluate really the ecological
situation in the concrete regions, and also to appoint the needed measures both in the field of nature
protection and at the creation of optimal conditions for labor and relaxation of population.
For more precise, scientific-grounded determination of reasons influenced on the deterioration of forest
conditions the Forestry Development Project stipulated six forest monitoring stations and the central
laboratory for data analysis. These stations should supplement the system of the air pollution monitoring in
the frames of Intemational program for control and evaluation of the air pollution influence on the forests
(JCP - Forests), and also the state system of the air pollution monitoring which was developing at that time
by the Ministry of Natural Recourses of the Republic of Belarus. It was designed that monitoring stations
would take on trial samples of air, soil, water and vegetation, then the central laboratory would test these
samples and carry on the data base. Project also stipulated the technical assistance for the training of the
appropriate staff. But during the project activity, as the result of detailed analysis of the available net of
weather stations, which are allocated through 60 km in average on the territory of the Republic of Belarus,
it was taken a decision to turn down the procurement of forest monitoring stations and to use data from
weather stations and to extend the list of equipment for the central laboratory for second level forest
-38-



monitoring. Second level forest monitoring provides to carry out investigations on the Continuous Test
Sites (CTS) evenly distributed on the territory of the Republic of Belarus and includes the same objects for
investigations as for the project, i.e. air, soil, precipitation and vegetation, but only in more large range.
The program - methodic of organization and carrying out of works for 2nd level forest monitoring with
coordination with over European methodic of the control and the assessment of the air pollution on forests
was developed for the implementation of these targets. According with this program-methodic the 81
continuous test sites were established. For the procurement of needed devices and equipment for the central
laboratory was made a specification for them taking into account all tasks for investigation objects.
In 2001, the procurement of devices and equipment for the central laboratory and their installation into its
premise, the training program of specialists for works with new devices and equipment were carried out. It
allows already in this year to begin works for 2nd level forest monitoring, i.e. to take on trial samples of
soil, needles (leaves), forest bedding, moss, tree sawing off and to begin the production of the laboratory
analysis.
From the proceeds of the Republican budget it was carried out the breaking up into smaller units the net of
1st level monitoring from the 16 x 16 km to the 8 x 8 km, with the purpose of more full scope of
investigations of more large forest tracts, and to achieve the number of continuous record points till 1450
(CRP), on which the assessment by eyes with indications of defoliation, dechromation and other damages
is conducting each year. Field materials are treated, data received are analyzed and reports are made up for
the 6 Oblasts and for the Republic in whole.
Annually forest monitoring data on the Republic of Belarus are sending to over European Coordination
Center for the forest monitoring under the international program JCP - Forests (Hamburg, Gernany). In
it's turn Summary Report on forest conditions in European countries is coming from the Coordination
Center.
The Data Bank was created on the results of field investigations.
Data on forest conditions of the Republic of Belarus by the forest monitoring results annually are published
in the ecology bulletin, issued by National academy of Science of the Republic of Belarus.
Monitoring specialists regularly take part in republican and international meetings, seminars, conferences
and intercalibration courses connected with matters of the air and environment pollution.
Radionuclide Control System
After conducting the tenders and carrying out the procurements, the radiometric devices, equipment and
machinery were supplied to the radionuclide control units of forest estates. The device park was increased
on the 10% by comparison with 1998, including the devices allowed to conduct measurement of all kinds of
gamma radiated elements - gamma-spectrometers, became three times more. There were procured the
devices for the content determination of beta-radiated radionuclides (strontium-90) in the forestry products.
For the control of outward irradiation dose of forest workers which are carrying out its activity in the areas
with the level of the radionuclide contamination more than 10 Cu/sq.km, the dosemetric complex
"Dozakus" with the set of individual dosemeters was supplied. In 2000 after passing of metrological
attestation at the organs of State Standard of the Republic of Belarus the putting into operation of the
radiometric devices was completed.
The procurement and the putting into operation of the new radiometric equipment allowed to carry out in
accordance with requirements the measures on the ensuring of the radionuclide safety and the conduction of
the radionuclide control of the forestry products.
- 39 -



In 1997-2001 there was carried out the more precise definition of the radionuclide situation of the branch
forest fund. As the result, there was obtained that the forest area contaminated with the radionuclides
consists of 1,641.4 thousand ha (at 01.01.2001) or 21% of the total area. In 2000 there was began and in
2001 prolonged the works on the radionuclide inspection of accepted colkhoz lands.
In 1999 there were completed the works for detailed site radionuclide inspection of forest blocks with
mature and overmature forest stands in the radionuclide contaminated zone 1540 Culsq.km. As a result of
inspection of 1,469 sites on the area of 5,263 ha with the total wood resource 1,262.9 thousand cubic m
there were revealed 624 sites with contamination density less than 15 Cu/sq.km on the area of 2,170 ha
with the wood resource 468.7 thousand cubic m.
The presence of the gamma-spectrometers in the branch radionuclide control net allowed to conduct works
on the radionuclide inspection of the territories more operational, as the measuring of taken samples were
conducted direct in the forest estates. Earlier all soil samples were analyzed in oblast radionuclide control
laboratories and in the central laboratory of radiometric and spectrometric measuring. There was increased
the number of radiometric measurements of samples of forest products: business and fuel wood, lumber,
by-products of forest using and so on. In 1999 there were tested 59,884 samples of forest products, in
2000 - 52,736 samples, and during the 9 months of 2001 - 47,990 samples, what in average is more on
22% by comparison with 1996. All products harvested and sold by forest estates to the external consumer
are treated by the radionuclide control.
The works for radionuclide inspection of working places, offices and farmsteads of forest estates, forest
districts, forest nurseries were prolonged. Information of forest workers and population about radionuclide
situation in the forests, rules of forest using on radionuclide contaminated territories remains one of activity
directions of radionuclide control specialists. In the each forest estate and forest district there are mounted
the information signs and stands, in the forest massifs contaminated with radionuclides - warning signs.
For all forest estates located in zones of radionuclide contamination there were developed instructions
(brochures) "You are going to the forest...", 7 kinds of leaflets, which contain information on the matter of
radionuclide safety during visiting of the forests and using of the forest products: rules for gathering,
treating and processing with the purpose to reduce the radionuclides content in mushrooms, berries and so
on.
In 1999 the thermoluminescence system for determination of the outwards irradiation doses was put in
operation. Methodical approaches for carrying out the individual dosemetric control of forest workers were
developed. There were covered with the individual dosemetric control in 1999 - 937 persons, in 2000 -
1415 persons, in 2001 - more than 900 persons. As far as collection of results there will be revealed the
critical group of forest workers, which is liable to the individual dosemetric control.
In the course of the implementation of measures on the Component there were developed and put into
operation the Republican permissible levels for forest products (RDU/LH-2001) (National register of legal
acts of the Republic of Belarus, 2001, No.20, 8/4937). There were developed, affinned and put into
operation "The rules of the carrying out forestry works in the radionuclide contaminated zones" (National
register of legal acts of the Republic of Belarus, 2001, No.35, 8/5440), "Instructions for putting of forests
blocks to the radionuclide contaminated zones" (National register of legal acts of the Republic of Belarus,
2001, No.53, 8/6133).
As the result of the implementation of the Project Component "System of radionuclide control" the
radionuclide control service is carrying out its functions in accordance with present requirements. The
radionuclide inspection of forests (felling area, sites of forest activity, working places) and radionuclide
control of forest products carried out in full volume allow to ensure the safety conditions of labor of staff,
working on the contaminated with radionuclides territories, to supply to the consumer the production which
-40 -



does not exceed the present levels of radionuclide contamination.
Wetlands Monitoring
Initially the amount USD 500,000 of the loan funds was allocated for implementation of the project stated;
however, in October 1997 Danish Government informed on the intention to provide to Belarus grant
technical assistance for development and implementation of the joint Belarus and Danish project
'Management and Protection of the Forest Wetlands in the Republic of Belarus'. Within the period on
October 6- 10, 1997, Mission of the Danish National Forest and Nature Agency visited Belarus; the goal
of the Mission was to elaborate first draft of the project on forest wetlands of Belarus and to start
implementation of the project from 1998. In the result of negotiations a composition of the project was
identified, executors from Belarus side were identified, and also scopes of financing were identified from
the Danish side as well as from the Belarus side. The World Bank in the Aide Memoire for the Mission
held on November 6-13, 1997, confirmed removal of the Loan financing in the amount of USD 500
thousand and reallocation of this amount for another purposes. However, in one year the Danish
Govemment refused to finance development and implementation of the project; after that a decision to
finance development of the project with utilization of the funds of the Republican budget was made, and it
was agreed with the World Bank. In January 1999 amendments to the detailed plan for component
implementation were made; these amendments were agreed with the Ministry of Finance. The Detailed
Plan envisaged the following:
I. Development of the conception for sustainable wetlands management in the state forest fund of
Belarus (Institute of Forest of the National Academy of Sciences).
2. Development of a complex of programs and creation of Data Bank on wetlands (State Forestry
Production Enterprise 'Belgosles').
3. Establishment of Data Bank on meliorated lands (Enterprise 'Belgosles').
4. Development of typology of meliorated forests (Enterprise 'Belgosles').
5. Development of monitoring system for forest wetlands of the forest fund of Belarus (Institute for
Experimental Botany of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus).
6. Development of forest typological classification of wetlands and justification for allocation of
nature protective objects (Institute for Experimental Botany of he National Academy of Sciences of
Belarus).
7. Inventory of hydro foresee meliorative systems (State Enterprise 'Belgiproles').
8. Inventory of the damaged lands (Enterprise 'Belgiproles').
9. Development of the basic provisions for forestry and hunting management at the wetlands
(Institute of Forest of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus).
10. Development of Instructions on reconstruction and maintenance of hydro forest meliorative
systems (Institute of Forest of the National academy of Sciences of Belarus).
11. Development of recommendations of utilization of the damaged lands (Institute for the Problems of
Utilization of the Natural Resources and Ecology of the National Academy of Sciences of
Belarus).
12. Development of a system for management of wetlands of forest fund of Belarus (Belarus State
Technological University).
13. Development of a resources management system at the wetlands (Enterprise 'Belgosles').
Forest Management Information System (FMIS).
-41 -



Results and effectiveness of the Forest Management Information System being developed.
As a result of implementation of the 'Forest Management Information System' component of the Project
the 1 st Stage of computerization of the forestry branch has been completed. It provides the following:
*   supply of the Forest Enterprises, Oblast Forest Enterprises, Ministry of Forestry of Belarus and its
structural subdivisions with the minimal necessary quantity of computer equipment and
appropriate training of staff;
*   development of application software complexes for functional tasks of the 1st stage on the forestry
and introduction of these complexes at all the Forest Enterprises;
*   establishing the effective automated system for control over the implementation of the forestry
activity, making managing decisions, rational use of forest cut fund and other useful functions of
the forest;
*   establishing the 'Forest Resources' geographic information system for all Forest Enterprises of the
branch;
*   receiving reliable information on condition of the forest fund for the current year at all levels of the
branch management and making optimal design and management decisions on the basis of use of
the 'Forest Fund of Belarus' database, 'Forest Resources' management information system and
technology of continuous forest management.
Implementation of the FMIS will allow increasing effectiveness of forestry production by 10% in the
average, revealing additional resources on all types of use of forestry lands, decreasing unproductive labor,
material and resource inputs.
The general effect pertaining to the national economy will be much higher because it includes specific
recreational and ecologic functions of forest.
However, it is desirable to note that computerization of the forestry branch is not limited to development of
the FMIS component of the Belarus Forestry Development Project as to the funds allocated and volume of
tasks to be solved, because it is a large scale program on installation of computer equipment at Forest
Farms and Forest Enterprises and up to Oblast Forest Enterprises and the Ministry of Forestry,
development of software complexes of the 2nd Stage and other application software. The program
envisages establishing an integrated branch database under the management of 'ORACLE' database
management software and 'Windows NT' operation system, creating a distributed calculation environment
for solution of forestry tasks in the client-server network, implementation of 'Forest Resources'
Management Information Systems (MIS) as well as training of the engineering and technical staff of the
branch on solution of tasks in the FMIS.
Further development of the FMIS shall be linked with computerization of the lower management level -
Forest Farms, to ensure the closed cycle of processing of information on forest fund, including planning
forestry and forest production activity, marketing, foreign economic activity, electronic exchange of the
documents, connection to remote methods of space monitoring, cadastre assessment of forest lands, forest
certification and other new technologies.
Forest Research
The results of implementation of the 'Forest Research' component relate to the group of the measures with
the long period of signs of effect. There are grounds at the moment to tell about substantial potential social
and ecological effect for development of the forestry.
-42 -



The main indicator of effectiveness of implementation of the component is that the tasks set out have been
solved. Introduction into production of the outputs of scientific research will enable within the coming 10
years practicable increase of effectiveness of the forestry, productivity and stability of forests, preservation
of their biodiversity.
The modem instruments, laboratory, computer and office equipment, chemical reagents, saloon cars
procured for scientific institutions, allowed development of potential of the forest science, increased the
level and quality of experimental works in the field of forest selection, genetics, biotechnologies, forest
regeneration and use, botany and physiology of plants, increased resources of the researchers, opened the
new horizons of fundamental and applied works in the field of ecology and biology of forest.
It is known that the forest science ensures the profit level 2-3 times higher than other investments. At the
same time an additional ecological and social effect is received that is not expressed in the terms of money
so far.
The purposes and tasks of the 'Forest Research' component have been achieved. The outputs of scientific
research created in the process of its implementation forn the theoretical base for sustainable,
economically, ecologically and socially justified multipurpose forestry of Belarus. The modernized
scientific and technical base of the research centers of the forestry profile creates the basement for dynamic
advancing development of the national forest science as an important part of the world research process.
All of this evidences that implementation of the component has been completed successfully.
Forestry Education and Manpower Training.
The results of implementation of the 'Forestry Education and Manpower Training' component relate to the
group of the measures with the long period of signs of effect. There are grounds at the moment to claim
that the immediate tasks of the component have been solved. The advancing reformation of the system of
training, training anew and increasing qualification of staff towards establishing an effective multilevel
system of forestry education and manpower training based on the up to date national and international
experience is conducted.
Firn potential for sustainable development of labor resources in the forestry has been created due to:
*   more flexible and effective system of forestry education, training, training anew and increasing
qualification of forestry staff;
*   establishment of a modem educational and material base of educational institutions of forestry
profile, utilization of new study plans and programs, launching the new actual specialties and
specializations;
*   increasing the level of professional training of professorial and teaching staff, development of
international cooperation in the field of forestry education and manpower training;
*   more effective system of professional orientation, training and placement of management staff and
specialists, active development of forestry and ecological enlightenment of the youth;
*   the economic return from the measures implemented in the frameworks of the component will show
itself in the mid- and long-term perspective mainly (within 25-50 years) due to more effective forest
management and use, increasing productivity and stability of forests, strengthening their
environment-forming, nature-protecting and social roles.
Prototype Fund
-43 -



In March 1996, in accordance with the Order of the Ministry of Forestry #77 a State Enterprise
'Lesinvestfund' was created in the structure of the Ministry (later on this Enterprise was re-named into
State Enterprise 'Lesmashinvest'). This Enterprise was responsible for practical implementation of the
component. The Enterprise elaborated first draft Program of Investment Project, and in June 1997 the
Program was approved by the Scientific and Technical Board of the Ministry of Forestry. The budget of
the Program made USD 4 million (USD2,0 million were the funds of the Fund and USD 2,0 million were
the funds of the partners); the Program comprised 25 investment projects for development and creation of
equipment for the forestry sector of the Republic. Based on the results of careful expertise carried out by
the Management Board and by the experts of Enterprise, on the basis of recommendations of the Bank
Mission (November 1997) a decision was made to revise Program of Investment Project for ihe Prototype
Fund. This revision must be done with due regard to the future development of the own machine building
basis in the Republic, and this would allow to decrease procurement of expensive equipment from abroad,
to decrease utilization of equipment with different brands, to increase unification of machine and tractor
park, to simplify repair and exploitation of the park of equipment. Together with improvement and
production of basic equipment, it was decided that in the Republic it is necessary to organize production of
special hanging technological equipment to be able to work at all the phases of forestry production.
In January 1999, a final version of the Investment Program for the Prototype Fund was approved by the
Management Board of 'Lesmashinvest' at first, and then by the Scientific and Technical Board of the
Ministry of Forestry. The final program included 15 projects comprising 50 different types of equipment
for the forestry sector.
It was foreseen that USD 300 Thousand of the loan funds would be used for investment of the above stated
program. For this purpose on July 13, 1999 Procurement Cover Sheet of materials, accessories, computer
and other equipment for the total amount of USD 300 thousand was sent to the Bank; these funds would be
invested by the Enterprise for development and creation of prototype samples of competitive forestry
equipment. However, no-objection for this Procurement Cover Sheet was never received from the Bank.
The program was not implemented because of the fact that the Loan Funds were not allocated for
implementation of this Program.
Strategic Plan
The Strategic Plan covers the broad range of issues that define the perspectives of forestry development till
2015. It is linked with the National Strategy on Sustainable Development and has an inter-branch impact.
The Strategy of Multipurpose Use, Regeneration and Protection of Forest is built on the principles of
permanency and inexhaustibility of forest resources and objectively reflects development of the forest
branch. The broad range of issues on forest ecology is clearly outlined in the Strategic Plan:
*   radioactive contamination,
*   preservation of biological and landscape diversity,
* development of protected areas,
*   optimization of forest cover percent and ecology issues of economic activity.
In the strategy of development substantial role is given to the issues of monitoring, forest certification and
licensing. On the basis of specific calculations the issues of strengthening the forest economy, transfer to
financial independence and self-financing are justified, and the terms of such transfer are established.
There are proposals on development of wood processing, improvement of marketing, liberalization of the
market.
- 44 -



During 3 years from the moment of finalization, many provisions of Strategic Plan have been introduced
into the practical activity of the MoF. In particular, for the period till year 2015 the following state
programs have been developed: regeneration and reforestation, multipurpose use and protection of forests.
The prognosis of scientific and technical forestry policy has been prepared. 'Restructuring of the wood
processing shops of the MoF' branch program has been developed. With regard to improvement of
legislation on the forestry the 'Forest Code' has been developed by the MoF and approved by the National
Assembly. Certain activities have been conducted in the field of forest management. More than I million
hectares of forests that were previously owned by the collective farms and other agricultural entities have
been transferred under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Forestry. Use of forests has increased by 10%
(from 8.5 million m3 in 1994 to 9.4 million m3 in 2000). Important activities have been implemnented in
the field of forest ecology. The network of specifically protected areas is being developed, the volumes of
selection logging have increased by 2 times (from 3% to 7.5% of the area), the system of integrated forest
monitoring is being effectively developed. The licensing of wood harvesting activities is conducted as well
as transfers to the system of assortment harvesting and hauling that allowed significant reduction of
violations of ecological rules on harvesting. The forest certification system and forest cadastre have been
developed. The training centers have received new equipment. All forest enterprises are computerized and
the systems of branch management are introduced.
From the point of international experience on forests management, the Strategic Plan complies with the
main requirements of intemational community that are applied to the national strategies of development of
forestry. It is quite sufficient with regard to the modern tendencies of formation of the national forest
strategies taken into account, and realistically reflects the ways of development of the forestry of the
Republic of Belarus.
Complete implementation of the Strategic Plan will allow bringing the forestry out to a new quality level
complying with international requirements.
Pest Management Program
Implementation of the component 'Forest Pest Management' gave an opportunity at the most early stage to
remove threat of mass damage of stands, and to eliminate spots of the most dangerous kinds of pests -
defoliators, and to do this without harm to the useful components of the forest biocenosis and environment
due to utilization of ecologically friendly means of forest protection and technologies.
Utilization of the technology of ultra small volume spraying (for the first time) allowed not only to improve
methods of pest management, but also considerably increase productivity of labor and to decrease
economical costs; and experience gained out of this can be broadly introduced into the practice of forest
protection.
Safety and high efficiency of the chemicals Forei and Dimilin used made the basis for inclusion of these
chemicals into the list of chemicals which can be applied in the forestry of the Republic, and this was done
by State Chemical Committee of the Republic.
Utilization of the pheromone (for the first time) to control over population of Ips typographus allowed to
improve forest entomological monitoring, facilitated timely identification of the spots of pests, but it was
not so efficient as a measure for pest management with the help of traps. Combination of this method with
the complex of sanitary and health measures (sanitary cuts, selection of damaged trees, allocation of
catching trees, etc.) gives more high result in restriction of population of Ips typographus and in
improvement of sanitary condition of the forest and decreasing of losses of timber.
It is also positive that utilization of imported pheromones contributed to development of the own scientific
-45 -



and production, legislative basis on creation of pheromones, and to implement pheromone monitoring at the
permanent basis in the forests of the Republic.
Mastering the use of laboratory equipment for the analysis of status of pests and agents of diseases
contributes to achievement of the common goal on improvement of forest protection within the frames of
implementation of the component; and utilization of computer equipment for accumulation and storing of
data bank of the initial forest pathological information also contributes to achievement of the common goal
on improvement of forest protection.
-46 -



IIMAGR3NGi
Report No.:        25013
Type:    ICR



