Environmental                   t
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                      ______
Report E0041
Belarus -
Forestry Sector
Development Proj ect
EA Category A
5 of 5
June 1993
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



FNAL REPORT
FIRE MANAGEMENT MISSION
Assessing the State of
FOREST FIRE PROThECION
in the
REPUBLIC of BELARUS
June 1993
by
ClIff B. Smith - Project Leader
Brian D. Amiro - AECL
Guy Lewis - USFS
Ed. MacAulay - NS
Dick Stauber - USFS
s



TABLES OF CONTENTS
I.   INTRODUClION  1....................................................... 
II.   CURRENT SIUA1TON       .................................................. 2
III.  RECOMMENDATIONS .       ................................................. 9
IV.  FIRE MANAGEMENT IN THE RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATED ZONE .... ...... 12
V.   DESCRIPTION OF FIRE REGIME IN BELARUS ............................. 16
VI.  FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF KEY RECOMMENDATIONS .....     .............. 20
VII.  CONCLUSION . ....................................................... 23
APPENDIX A REPUBLICAN PROGRAM ON FOREST FIRE PROTECTION FOR 1993-2000
APPENDIX B FIRES - OVERVIEW OF RADIOECOLOGICAL SITUATION FOR FIRES - REPORT
BY DR. B. AMIRO
APPENDIX C DRAFT FOREST FIRE PREVENTION MEASURES IN THE RADIATION-
CONTAMINATED ZONE
APPENDIX D PROJECT FOR CREATING AN AUTOMATED SYSTEM OF FOREST FIRES
DETECTION
APPENDIX E FIRE STATISTICS CHARTS - COMPLETED BY FIRE TEAM WHiLE IN BELARUST



1
L      INTRODUCIlON
The Republic of Belarus wiLh CIose to 40% of its' land area forested relies very heavily on its' forests (8 million
hectares). The forestry sector represents a major source of employment (175,000 jobs in 1990) and accounts for a small
yet significant portion of the GDP. More importanLly the potential for considerable growth of the sector exists
providing forest management (including fire protection) techniques are upgraded, and manufacturing facilities are
modernized. FurLhermore the foresL in addition to providing industrial benefits supplies a significant range of other
benefits, including but not limited to fish and wildlife resources, and recreational benefiLs such as hunLing, fishing,
berry picking, picnicking etc., to mention a few. The forests, if properly managed, serve io protect water and air as
weil as to help maintain biological diversity, all of which are values thaL are most difficult to measure. However,
without a strong program in forest fire controL most other efforts to enhance the potential of the Republic's forestry
sector will be for naught and the end product value will be greatly diminished.
The Forest Fire Problem
The Republic to its' credit has a strong commitment to protecting its' forests from fires and has performed reasonably
well in most normal fire years. Peak fire years which Byelorussian officials claim cycle in 33 year periods, prove to be
disastrous. The 1992 season was but one example. The final results of that year, which could have been much worse,
indicates that there is considerable room for improvement and upgrading in almost all aspects of the fire program.
Compounding the fire management program is the situation involving the radiation-contaminated forests which has
resulted from the 1986 Chernobyl accident. On the assumption that contaminated forests are to be protected from
fire, if for no other reason than to protect the general public from the spread of radionuclides, changes to the fire
control program must be implemented quickly, even for normal fire years. These changes which involve all aspects of
the program must begin with a major thrust in fire prevention, considering the unusually high man caused fire
incidence in the Republic.
In response to the fire problem the Ministry of Forestry has completed an analysis and a needs assessment (refer to
report in Appendix A entitled "The Republican Program on Forest Fire Protection for 1993-2000"). This report
indicates a strong will on the part of the Ministry to upgrade its' capability to manage wildfire. The desired
improvements will be most difficult to achieve due to the lack of capitaL the high inflation rate, and the scarcity of
goods and services, particularly petroleum products.
Purpose of Mission
The June 1993 mission of North American fire specialists was organized in conjunction with a project of the World
Bank and is intended to gather facts and information on the fire program as it exists today in Belarus, and more
importantly to provide advice and recommendations towards a new strategic direction for fire management in the
Republic, for both the World Bank and indirectly for the officials of the Byelorussian Government.
The Fire Management Team
The fire management team was engaged by the Canadian Interagency Forest Fire Centre which agreed to conduct the
Mission on behalf of the World Bauk. The team consisted of two Canadian and two American fire specialists, all with
considerable fire management experience in North America.
The team was joined in progress by a radiation expert from Atomic Energy Canada Limited who offered advice on
fire activities within the radionucide contaminated forest as it pertains to firefighter safety. He offered expert advice
to the World Bank Team on the future use of and activity within the contaminated forests of the Republic.



2
riming and Methodology
The team spent a total of 18 days in the Republic from Julie 6 through June 24 1993. During that time seven days
were spent in the field familiarizing members with field conditions including foresL fuels and field procedures. Several
field visits were made to Fire and Chemical Stations, recent fire sites, and silvicultural treaLments in areas near
Gomel, Mozyr, Minsk and Borisov. On June 10 the team flew in two Russian MI-2 helicopters over the Chernobyl
Restricted Zone (CRZ) as well as the Chernobyl reactor itself. The forests of Belovezhskaya Puscha National Park
in the southwestern corner of the Republic were also visited. Additionally, team members spent several days talking
to various governmenL officials and research organizations in the Minsk area. Included were several meetings with staff
from the Ministry of Forestry, Byelorussian State University, the Belarus Academy of Science, the office of the
National Fire Chief, Ministry of National Defence (Military), the Forestry Planning Institute (Belgosles) and the
Chernobyl State Committee. While in GomeL the team also visited the office and field laboratories of the Gomel
Research Institute. All of the above meetings and field visits enabled the team to gain valuable insigh; and knowledge
vis-a-vis the Fire Management Program in Belarus. This intelligence, while be it far from all-encompassing then led
the team to formulate a number of ideas and recommendations which follow in this report. IL must be emphasized
that these recommendations are made on the basis of what the team observed during their short stay in Belarus. As
such, many of the recommendations will require further study and research along with prototype testing before it is
known whether or noL these new directions will in fact successfully form the blueprint for the new fire program in the
Republic.
IL     CURRENT SITUATION
Belarus experienced a severe fire season in 1992, the most criLical in the memory of local fire managers. Fire history
records of the last decade or so confirm that 1992 was an historic year.
Samples of daily fire weather and maps as well a fire danger rating prediction seem to indicate that the fire conditions
are similar throughout the country. Visual observations would indicate that the southern regions of the country may
have warmer conditions. The Gomel region has nearly twice the number of fires as other regions. Minsk is second,
perhaps due to the large population. Further discussion with fire personnel confirmed our observation that Gomel and
Brest Regions are normally warmer and the fire season begins earlier than the northern regions.
Fuel types are similar throughout the country with Pinus silvestrus dominating. Picea excelsior is found more in the
areas north of Minsk and accounts for slightly less hazardous fuels conditions in these areas. The 1 meter by 3 meter
spacing, and with usually only one species, results in very flashy continuous fuels.
The large fire scars which were observed were typical of long and narrow wind driven crown fires.
Fuel breaks were usually narrow, I to 3 meters plowed furrows. Crown closure overhead was very close. This fuel
_     break would provide defensible space only for a slow moving ground fire. Forest roads have a similar crown closure
in most locations.
There are presently at least two approved fuel modification planting practices. One modification is planting of
alternate rows of Alder or another hardwood, or some variation of this sequence. This option provides minimal
modification of crown fuels. Another proposed practice is to plant buffers around each kilometer and bisect it with
20 to 30 meter strips of hardwoods. A more promising and easier practice would be to plant 20-30 meter strips of
hardwood, oriented perpendicular to the summer wind pattern. One kilometer spacing would be effective. These
treatments would result in a conversion of 5% to 10% of the stands to hardwoods.
I     Shaded fuel breaks and aggressive thinning were seen on occasions. These add to the scenic interest of the forests and
provide better opportunity for fire prevention and control.



3
Fire Prevention
Fire prevention is currently the responsibility of the Ministry of Forestry for all of Belarus. There is a good general
policy and regulation on fire preventioni written in 1974 for th: Soviet Uuion.
Almost all fires in Belarus are man caused. This fact emphasizes the need for intensive fire prevention.
The importance of prevention is expressed hi the long range fire protection plan for Lhe state and an improved
prevention program is proposed. The emphasis is on providing the public with camping and rest areas where open fires.
can be better managed, and on increased fuel breaks created by ploughing and by developing access roads. Public
education and improved advertisement are also included.
The Chernobyl area presents special problems for both prevention and protection. The Ministry recognizes this and
has made this area its' priority for many of the proposed activities.
The Ministry of Forestry has a program in place to prevent fire occurrence which includes the following:
a)  Construction of mineral soil fire breaks along roads bordered by forest and within larger forest stands:
b)  Prevention posters are placed at high use locations or in high hazard areas.
c)  Ministry officials giving television and radio interviews and presentations on fire hazard and fire safety:
d)  Broadleaf planting between pine rows are being carried out;
e)  There is a requirement of suppression equipment on each logging site;
f)  There is continuous comMunication with local forestry operators, military and other industrial users such as in
powerline construction and railroad operators;
g)  Visits to schools by forestry officials to educate the children on prevention measures;
h)  The provision of some roadside rest areas for public use.
Fire Detection
Fire Detection in Belarus is accomplished through four main avenues which are described as follows:
(i) Fixed Detection: The Republic maintains and operates an intensive network of forestry towers (lookouts) which
are manned during period of higher fire hazards. In alL there are 660 towers which detect somewhat less than 40%
of all fires On their eight million hectares landbase, this means there is a lookout for every 121 square kilometers (47
square miles). By North American Standards, where many individual jurisdictions no longer employ a fixed detection
network, this intensity is considered extreme, particularly when the whole Republic is relatively flat (ie.in Alberta,
Canada, which utilizes a fixed detection network augmented by aerial detection, surface patrol, as well as public
detection there is only one tower for each 2800 sq.km. (1075 sq.miles)).
;7     The Ministry of Forestry claims that despite their intensive network, only 60% of the forested territory is covered
*      (visible area maps were not made available to the fire team). However, in questioning officials in the Ministry it vwas
indicated that virtually the entire territory was covered by triangulation (visible from at least two towers under normal
visibility conditions).
In order to meet the objectives of the Fixed Detection Program, Byelorussian officials claim they will require an
additional 365 tower installations which will bring the total network to 1010 towers (one for each 80 sq.km (30
sq.mfles). The resulting intensification would allow for maximum visibility even under the poorest of conditions (e.i
haze, and poor light conditions). Whereas such an objective is laudable, the cost effectiveness of such measures is
Mfi    highly questionable.
(ii) Aerial Detection: The Air Detection system, which consists of 17 MI-2 helicopters complete with a pilot and pilot
observer and 53 airborne firemen detects approximately 60% of the fires in Belarus. Helicopters routinely patrol
along predetermined air patrol routes during periods of moderate and high hazard.



4
Despite the advantages of aerial mobility the helicopters are expensive to operate anid considered to be slow in
comparison to light rixed wing aircraft which are considerably faster and can cover significantly more terriLory in a
given period of time. This becomes critical during periods of high and extreme fire hazard when multiple fire starLs
can occur.
(iii) Surface Patrolling: The Republic also places high emphasis on surface patrol for fire detection, utilizing the
existing network of roads and trails with motorcycles, mopeds and light vehicles.
(iv) Public Detection: In discussions with Byelorussian officials it was indicated that a very small number of fires are
reported by the public. This would serve to point out the need for a much more involved public which can probably
be best accomplished through an intensive fire-prevention program with maximum exposure to the public. To be
successful the ownership of the fire prevention and control program must be shared with the public.
Organizational Structure
Fire management in the Republic is generaly the responsibility of the Ministry of Forestry. it is worthy of note that
ground based and aerial firefighting operations are administered in two separate divisions of the Ministry.
For the purposes of administration the country is divided into six standard regions as follows.
National     Ministry of Forestry
Regional      Oblast Forest Amalgamation of Assoc. of
Forest Production Groups
Forests      Leskhoz Forest Enterprises
Districts   Lesnitcheswa Forest Departments
(For a detailed description refer to section 5.1 of Appendix A.)
Fire command and control follows this organizational structure for fire activities. The Leskhoz (forest enterprises) is
the lowest level of fire dispatching (coordination). Task Groups (multi-agency coordination groups) were created
during the 1992 fire season and can be reconstituted as needed.
Resource sharing between regions is not normally practiced due to the fact that fire hazard is typically uniform
throughout the Republic at a given period of time.
The fire stations report to the local lesnitcheswa (district). The norm is to locate one station for each 30,000 ha. Local
Lesniks (forest wardens) are assigned specific units and have fire prevention and suppression as an expected part of
their job. The primary emphasis appears to be forest management and the prevention contact responsibility. Support
for fire also comes from the Aerial Fire Service.
£      Ministry of Defense
The Defense Ministry manages 450,000 ha of land of which about 250,000 ha are forested. Professional Foresters
command these units and coordination between the Forest MinisLry and the Defense Ministry is very good. According
to the Defense Officers the coordination has improved since the creation of Belarus.
Emergency Authority
The 1992 fire season resulted in the 'Resolution of the council of Ministers" titled "REPUBLICAN SYSTEM OF
AND ACTION IN EXTREME EMERGENCIES:"



5
The National Emergency Task Force includes
CIVIL DEFENSE..CHAIRMAN
[NTERNAL AFFAIRS...POUCE
FORESTRY
FUELS AND ENERGY
NATIONAL CONSERVATION AGENCY
DEFENSE
COMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY
Similar organizations can occur at the Regional and Leskhoz levels. At the lower levels the chairman of the group is
the Deputy for the local Government. The groups were very effective in 1992 and there is strong commitment to
continuing them this year if needed.
The 'Resolution! provides extensive authority to the "Task Groups" to use equipment and people from enterprises
that are not part of the Forest Ministry. Farm enterprise equipment can be assigned to support the fire fighting effort.
Mutual and Cooperative Agreements
Belarus has forested borders with five countries; Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, and Russia. More than a dozen
regional governments are adjacent to Belarus in these neighbouring countries. Wild fires can occur on any of these
legal boundaries.
The need for cooperative agreements in fire detection, prevention and suppression was unnecessary prior to
independence. However, with independence and a movement towards a market economy there will be a growing
concern over paying for fire support from other jurisdictions.
Mutual aid or border agreement with neighbouring countries and local jurisdictions Le. cities can provide the local
rules for mutual support =nimizing the funding issues in the short run and maximizing emergency supporL
Documentation of the present mutual support expectations would be a place to sart.
Well equipped and financed countries such as Canada and the United States have a variety of cooperative agreements
to assure close cooperation, operational efficiency and support. Support for the extraordinary event must involve
neighbouring countries.
Chernobyl
The Chernobyl Restricted Zone (CRZ), a-30 kilometer radius around the Chernobyl reactor plant where most human
activity is prohibited, is shared by Belarus, Ukraine and Russia. A fire coordination meeting was recently held between
these three countries and a fire agreement has been negotiated at this time. Indications were given that this agreement
i      is to be ratified in July of 1993.
Local
Larger municipalities such as Gomel and Minsk have considerable forested areas. The cities have managemenL and
fire responsibilities over extensive forested lands, many of which are subject to wildfire. Presently, where cities have
jurisdictional boundaries in common with the Ministry of Forestry, both agencies respond if the fire is close to the
boundamy.
:I



6
Law and Legislation
Laws are being gradually modified from the former USSR Statues. At this Lime of revision and transition it is difficult
to evaluate the legislatioll however, it will be entremely important that the final statutes provide the Ministry of
Forestry with the authority it requires to carry out an effective rire managemenit program, includinig prevention and
enforcement.
Fire Pre-Suppression
Chemical and Anti-fire Stations
Field fire stations are equipped with 1 to 3 fire trucks with a minimum of the essential hand tools . Trucks showed
signs of much wear and tear. The standard 75mm hose is extremely heavy and difficult and inefficient to use in wildfire
suppression. Additionally it also uses water at a mucl faster rate than reasonable.
Water tenders (tanker trucks) are available at the local enterprises but are not part of the rire station. A large water
tank truck can resupply 2 to 3 engines that can remain on location at the fire line.
Portable pumps and saws were demonstrated however, their number as weUl as the quality was not adequate. Hand
tools were few and not of a quality that would stand up to sustained fire suppression activity.
c
The need for fire equipment and fire stations is well documenLed by the fire organization. It would be difficult to
judge the adequacy of the request without more review. The desire to increase the number of fire station locations
may not be cost effective. Adding engines and support vehicles to existing locations and improving those locations
would provide more effective initial attack.
Aerial Fire Service
The unit visited in Mozvr was staffed with trained and interested personneL The aerial observers and instructors
(Group Leaders) had received formal training in Pushkino, Russia.
The aerial fire service could be a corp of people that could become the trainers for fire fighters and a technology
transfer uniL
Communications
The current radio communication system is a basic one channel system which provides adequate communication within
each region. Communication between regions is by telephone.
:7
*      The state also operates a separate channel for fire line communications with a local range of approximately 5 km.
The aerial fire service uses the same system and can effectively communicate with ground forces. Most Ministry
vehicles are equipped with radios as are the aircraft. Towers are either connected to the system by telephone or
mobile radios. The ministry feels that the current system is adequate but would like new smaller radio units with better
reliability and greater channel availability.
Training
The Forestry Technological Institute in Minsk educates foresters in a 5-year progranL Although they receive forestry
training in all aspects of forest management, engineering and chemistry, they receive only one course in fire. This is
provided in their forth year of study and includes mostly fire prevention and suppression methods. Suppression is also
taught in the Mechanical option with regard to equipment development and operation. There are no student in post



7
graduate studies at this time who are specializing in fire related subjects. Sonic students do study fire management
but only in a general way in conjunction with other forest management areas.
There is also a two year technical program for forestry workers where fire management is taughL for a Lwo montlh
period. Tnese people are given training in ftre prevention and suppression as well.
The aerial fire service trains its' fre fighters at Puskino in Russia in conjunction with the Russian aerial service and
their plans are to continue this arrangement.
The basic ground fire fighter receives training from the local forest enterprise and from field experience (on the job).
The fire tower operators are given a day of instruction and work with an experienced operator for antother two days.
Research
Forestry and fire research is being done in a number of places. The Byelorussian S.M. Kirov Technological Institute
in Minsk trains foresters and accomplishes basic research in the graduate program. Forest nmnagement plans and
related studies are accomplished by the Belarus Enterprise for Forest Management.
The Gomel Forestry Research Institute is a specific research institute. They emplov 218 people which indudes 30 PhDs
and 124 people with advanced degrees. Three experimental forest (North, Central and South) are used to test researclh
and facilitates technology transfer. Research programs include forest genetics, research in radiological affects, as well
as forest plant improvements including mushrooms, cranberries and blueberries. Fire research involves use of fire
retardant and studies of smoke plume transport of radionuclides.
Work on a Belarus Fire Danger Rating System is being completed by a graduate student at the Minsk Forestry
Institute. Ihis system has better acceptance by field firefighters than the former USSR system.
The numbers of people in these various instiLutes may represent a capability to do overall research that exceeds the
long term need of Belarus. Efforts to learn more about the effects of Chermobyl may provide opporLunities for these
-      trained scientists.
There is concern on the part of the fire community that the research done in the past is not relevant to their problems.
Such concerns can be modified by including a fire manager on an advisory board that works with the research
itstitutes.
Research Progr3m for Electronic Automated Detection
While in Belarus, the Fire Team held discussions concerning a research project to develop an auLomated system of
-' forest fire detection which is described in the Appendix. (See Appendix D). The systemi as developed by Dr. Vitaly
a      Yamny, Chief of the Department of Nuclear Physics and Electronics at the Byelorussian State University, is currently
in prototype developmenL It is based on visual detection of smoke. The system as proposed would have three camera
towers to one control operator who could be as far away as communications would allow. The normal locations of
smoke from villages etc. will be identified and the system would set off an alarm only if it identifies the spectral
signature of smoke in an unexpected ares. A person must then decide if this is a real smoke from a wildfire and what
action to take.
Fire Reports
ZE     A four page summary report is produced for each fie. The Report provides general statistical information, fire size
by fuel type, fire cause, prosecution action if anvy silvicultural treatment, fire costs, including timber damages, weather
conditions, fire hazard levels, suppression equipment used along with a schematic map of the fire area. This report



8
is reviewed at the foresL, enterprise, regional and Minsk headquarter levels to determine if further iivestigative action
is necessary.
Fire Review
In discussions with Ministry of Foresty Officials it was learned that there are regular dailv briefings and debriefing of
fire personnel, as well as a full debriefing when the fire is extinguished. A formalized Board of Review is convened
for the more serious fires. Where and when necessary corrective and disciplinary action is taken. As the Bvelorussian
system  of fire review  appears to be similar to that conducted in North America, no further coninments or
recommendations are necessary.
LIE



9
IIL  RECOMMENDATIONS
Prevention
Effective well directed fire prevention is one of the key components of fire management. In Belarus the majority of
all fires are man caused and in theory are therefore prevenLable. Fire prevention efforts must be increased and a well
directed fire prevention campaign must be developed to educate the general public and reduce fire numbers. The
currenL fire load of 2550 forest fires (13 year average) is unacceptable and must be reduced. The program as proposed
by the Ministry in its' long term plan (refer to Appendix A) is supported as a major effort to reduce fire occurrence.
However, it would appear that improvements could be made in some areas which would assist in this program.
1.  A more intensive fire investigation would improve the determination of fire cause and allow for a more directed
prevention campaign.
2.  Accurate fire records would also allow for improved fire occurrence prediction. An effective prevention program
should be directed at the group most responsible for fire starts at a timc when these fires are predicted lo occur.
This type of educational program has proven to be quite effective in other jurisdictions.
3.  There would be some ashdantage in establishing a stale side fi7e prevention symbol (sucil as Smokey Bear in North
America).
4.  Expand the number of current roadside rest areas as proposed by the MoF. Additionally a program !o fireproof
these sites by reducing the fuels in these areas and providing more fire pits and grills should be implemented.
5.  During prolonged periods of high and extreme hazard it would be beneficial to impose a ban on open fires and
require all residents to use the roadside rest areas or approved campsites for cooking fires.
6.  It would be extremely important to enforce this requirement (5 above) to indicate to the public the seriousness
of fire prevention.
7.  With respect to the current forestry operations and in consideration of their expansion, it would be very
important to take more appropriate prevention precautions. All equipment intended for use in the forest should
be equipped with a spark arrestor system to reduce the emission of hot carbon from the exhaust systemL This is
an important requirement and should be enforced by the State.
8.  All operators should be required to have fire suppression equipment on site at all times including water tanks
and fire extinguishers.
:7     9.  During periods of prolonged high and extreme fire hazard it would be appropriaLe to limit operations to the
early morning to noon period lo avoid the high hazard period of the day. A ground patrol should also be
maintained during the afternoon on these operations.
10. The current system of mineral soil fire breaks along roadsides and in forest stands is encouraged and
reconumended for expansion. These should be at least 2 to 3 meters in width to provide effective fire breaks.
11. Breaking up continuous conifer planLations with plantings of hardwood strips 20 to 30 meters wide as proposed
by the Ministry is supported and encouraged.
12. It would also be desirable to modify the forest along roadsides to create shaded fuel breaks. This can be
accomplished by reducing the density of the conifer stands to encourage broadleaf undergrowth.



10
13. The construction of access roads at least 20 meters in-right-of-way width would also provide appropriate fuel
breaks in large continuous plantations. This program should however be restricted to areas of high human activity
and use only. More access to other areas would increase the risk of fire occurrence unless these roads were gated
to restrict public access.
Detection
The analysis conducted by the Ministry of Forestry in March 1993, indicated that in order to improve forest [ire
detection in the Republic a major increase (55%) in the number of fire towers should be accomplished. Additionally,
it recommended that 6 AN-2 [ixed-wing single engine aircraft are to be rented for use in aerial patrol during high and
extreme fire hazards (Class V). An increase in surface patrol is also recommended by the Ministry through the
expansion of the number of roads and trails and transport equipment in a way of mopeds, motorcycles and light
vehicles. Finally, the implementation of the automated electronic system of forest fire detection described earlier is
to begin in 1994.
After reviewing the Ministry report the Fire Team recomimends the foltowing.
1.  Expansion of the Forestry Lookout System on a very limited scale and only in those areas where there now exists
critical limitations of visibility under normal day light conditions. An example would be in undulating or hilly
terrain where there are known blind spots to triangulation.
L      2.  We support the expansion of the aircraft fleet using initially AN-2 aircraft. Eventually the direction taken should
be towards replacing helicopters on a large segment of the aerial patrol with light fixed-wing aircraft which are
mLch faster and more efficienL This would free up the helicopter fleet for direct action on fires including delivery
of water for fire suppression and the transport of suppression personnel and equipment.
Military observation aircraft (i.e. US OV10) have been converted to fire lead plane/air attack in the United
States. This two passenger aircraft modified slightly for civilian use is very serviceable for fire observation.
Perhaps there is a similar aircraft available in local Air Forces.
The alternative is small twin engine craft for patrol and which could also be used for transportation of people
and equipment.
3.  Fixed-wing detection aircraft should be equipped with thermal monitoring devices and where possible the new
forward-looking infrared scanner (FLIR) which is particularly useful in smoke conditions when normal detection
is impaired.
4.  The fire team supports the increase in surface patrol activity provided the activity is directed Lowards the most
accessible areas where man caused fires occur. Increasing access to largely inaccessible areas will in turn only
£           increase the amount of public activity in these areas, thereby increasing the fire risk.
5.  The fire team supports the research program for the automated system of fire detection, providing the prototype
development is successful. The system can be gradually introduced throughout the Republic with initial emphasis
on the Chernobyl zone. If successful the use of the fixed detection network may actually be reduced over time.
6. In conjunction with all of the proposed enhancements described above it will be most important to ensure
adequate radio communication capability between all modes of the fire operation including detection and
suppression (see separate section on radio communications).



11
ire Pre-suppression
Anti-fire Chemical Stations
Although the Republican Plan (Appendix A) recommends the addition of 292 new stalions over and above the existing
134, we believe that only a minor increase may be necessary. The emphasis should be on improving the type and
quantity of equipment at the existing stations and towards aerial fire suppression tactics. The current plan to develop
large numbers of small equipment caches is discouraged in favor of updating and improving the existing fire cache
system.
Considering the large number of engines (278), and given the current program of replacing 20 engines per year, we
recommend the development of a standard proIOtype and a program lo refurbish and retrofit fire engines. Given that
the existing fire engine is designed to use large diameter hose more suited to structural fires, the effectiveness of water
delivery systems would be greatly enhanced by redesign to use 38mm hose.
The 3 year target should see a prototype engine completed and engines retrofitted for the Chernobvl area. We
understand that 6 personnel carriers and 6 fire trucks have recently been acquired from the military. We encourage
this practice to continue.
Tracked vehicles developed with pressurized cabs for radiological protection should be considered for work in the
Chernobvl restricted zone. Equipped with dozer and plow these could be used for fire fighting.
Suppression Aircraft
Amphibian Aircrart
Retardant and water/foam dropping aircraft can increase the effectiveness of fire suppression. Water areas large
enough for amphibian aircraft (i.e- Canadair CL-215 or Russian BE-12) are limited to river areas such as the Pripyat
River and a few larger lakes. The Pripyat river system would support a large amphibian aircraft for suppression within
-      the restricted zone.
Land Base Retardant Aircraft
The Russian aerial fire service has two AN-2 aircraft stationed near the CRZ and equipped for water or retardant
A third AN-2 is being modified for aerial suppression and they are testing the BE-12 and BE-200 aircraft in the
Irkutsk, Russia area this summer.
Fire Suppression with Rotor Wing Aircraft
The dropping of water/foam from helicopters is highly reconmnended. We have been told that the MI-2 can be
modified to haul an external load. We recommend that this be further studied for adoption. Bucket support on many
fires by these helicopters would be an extremely effective innovation in the Republic. The MI-8 helicopter with bucket
should be contracted or acquired to support aerial suppression on larger fires.
Mobile Fire Crew
It is recommended that one or more mobile fire crews be organized and equipped. In the United States and Canada
these are elite forces are configured into 20 to 25 person crews and can be split into smaller squads as necessary. These
Li     crews are well trained, well equipped and mobile by ground or air transport. Helirapelling, water/pump use, chain saw
operations as well as fire behavior should be part of the training. The superinteadent should be a qualified fire boss
for small fires and trained to understand fire behavior and fire tactics.



12
The crew could fit well as a part of the aerial fire service and could be used as a training cadre. The testing of new
or different fire tools could effectively be done by such a crew.
Communications
Consideration should be given to updating the present radio conmmunication system to provide for better State wide
communication with a broader channel selection and more portable radio units. A system which would allow radio
contact between the regions with connection to oLher agencies would be desirable. This would include the Civil
Defense Ministry, the Military, the police and perhaps health care and environmental agencies.
The fire line radios should have at least two channels for better contact and rire fighter safety, as well as providing
aerial communication between aircraft during larger fires where more than one aircraft would be involved. A study
should take place to review in detail the needs and reconmend an appropriaLe system to meet Belarus requirements.
There are a range of opLions available from land based microwave systems to satellite based digital systems. Current
mobile radios are capable of programming numerous channels and frequencies which would provide reliable and
effective state wide communication. This improvement would be most desirable in conjunction with detection aircraft
and video camera detection towers should such a system be implemented in Belarus especially in the Chernobvl
restricted zones.
Training
z      If. as expected, the forests of Belarus become one of the main economic factors in the State it will be necessary to
improve the importance placed on fire management of this resource. This will include a stronger component of fire
in the University training program.
Foresters who graduate from the 5 year program should have a knowledge of fire behavior including the effects of
weather (wind, relative humidity, rain pressure systems, fuel moisture and soil moisture changes) and forest fuels
(spread rates given various moisture and weather parameters and fuel loading). These students should also be trained
in suppression techniques and fire prevention programs as well as fire cause investigation.
The local fire fghters and forestrv workers should be trained in all aspects of prevention, fuel load modification, basic
weather and basic fire behavior as well as suppression and fire line organization.
This local training will require a local Training Officer and the organization sbould include a Fire Training Officer
at the State level to ensure that all areas receive uniform and standardized training.
The aerial fire fighter training program which presently exists at Pushkino, Russia continues to provide training for
aerial observers and group leaders and is supported.
?1
i      IV. FIRE MANAGEM^ENT IN THE RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATED ZONE
Fire management and suppression within the RCZ presents unique challenges to the nation. Concerns for public and
firefighter safety compound concerns for resource losses due to fire. As indicated in the Draft report "Forest Fire
Prevention Measures in the Radiation Contaminated Zoue" some contamination is present in 49 of the 86 foresL
enterprises, spread throughout all 6 oblasts. The Gomel region has the most forest land affected, 947 thousand
hectares, and Vitesk the least with 1.7 thousand hectares. Current management practices preclude forestrv activity
except for firefighting and research in the 187,000 ha. which have radiation levels of >15 curies.
Firefighting in the contaminated zones will continue. MoF officials have made the decision to fight all fires to minimize
transport of radiation throughout smoke plumes. Within the most contaminated areas firefighters are given dust masks,
and rotated out of the fire scene every two hours.



13
As observed from the air, the fuels situation in the 30 km exclusion zone and surrounding area is similar to other
portions of Belarus. Large wind driven fire scars from the recent past were evident as salvage logging has not removed
bumed trees. It is unclear whaL abandoned agricultural fields were contributing to the fire problem. Grasses, brush
and trees may be encroaching on forrnerly tilled land but this was not apparent from the air, in fact some lands looked
recently tilled. With natural mortality occurring in forests and lack of clean up of dead and dying vegetation the hazard
and fire potenLial in the non-managed areas may be expected to increase over time.
One puzzling aspect of the 30 km. exclusion zone and surrounding areas with high radiation levels is why are person
caused fires occurring in the first place. This indicates a breakdown in prevention and enforcement systems.
Analysis of MoF document 'Draft Forest Fire Prevention Measures in the Radiation-contaminated Zone" (see
Appendix C).
It is recognized that this is a draft document and some clarity is lost in translation. However, it is unclear on what basis
manv of the numbers were arrived at and how the RCZ plan fiLs into the "Republican Program for on Forest Fire
Protection for 1993 to 2000" (Appendix A). One point of confusion is the facL that the RCZ comprises several levels
of contamination which in reality may have different strategies and tactics yet these are not defined in the document.
For example how is fire to be fought differently in the >30 curie zone compared to the 1-5 curie zone'? Since the RCZ
is not an administrative unit it is unclear how RCZ firefighLing activities are integrated into non RCZ firefighLing and
forestry activities.
The RCZ report addresses several positive steps necessary to improve fire protection in the RCZ. Notable among them
are:
- creation of 3 special forest enterprises for Gomel which would specialize in fire suppression. Opportunities
may exist to utilize Aerial Fire Service expertise in training and equipping these forces.
A recommendation would be lo form crews along the lines of 'Hot Shot' crews in North America.
- Prevention and public conact measures. This is where the biggest potential payoff will be for the fire
-                program- Prevention is discussed in detail elsewhere in this report and those reconmendations apply here
as well.
- Detection measures are increased. Detection is addressed elsewhere in this report.
- The RCZ report recommends increasing levels of suppression.
- The RCZ report recommends increasing levels of suppression resources by increasing Anti-fire and
Chemical Stations. It may be that some additional units are needed but it is undear as to how many and
where they wil be located and configured.
- The report recommends increasing the number of water sources as weDl as building more roads for access
and fire breaks. These may be warranted however, without adequate water delivery systems more water
reservoirs mray not be productive. Without adequate access control more roads will increase opportunities
for person caused ignitions.
- Ihe report addresses aircraft use, calling for an increase in aerial resources however, it is unclear just how
many people and aircraft are caDed for.
- An increase in scientific research is called for and is weDl warranted.



14
Firefighter Safety in Contaminated Areas
A number of recommendations are addressed in Dr. Amiro's section on fire and radiation (Appendix B). It should
be noted that while particle born radiation exposure may be somewhat mitigated by personial protective equipment
and hnmiting exposure, radiation which is exposed to high temperamures is released with gases and poses more potential
harm to personnel exposed. The threshold level of high temperature is not clear but Dr. Amiro indicated that fire
intensities below those which accompany the onset of crown fire may be considered safe. Pertinent to this discussion
is data that shows that approximately 10% of fires in Belarus are crown fires and these cover 37% of the total area
burned. In terms of percent of workload and exposure, fires of this intensity carry a disproportionate share of worker
exposure.
Prvention in the RCZ
All recommendations made under the general fire preventions section apply to the RCZ however, there should be
some added measures taken to emphasize the added importance of prevention in the contaminated areas. Within the
entire area it is recommended that an intensive public awareness program be carried out.
Within the restricted 30 km zone we support the Ministry proposal to increase the road gated locations and
recommend access to the area by permit only. The ministrv should know the reason for enLry and the location of all
entering the zone. This zone should be strictly enforced to show the public that the Ministry is serious about fire
prevention within this zone.
Recommendations for the RCZ
With increased emphasis on minimizing human exposure and protecting resources the Eollowing recommendations for
the RCZ can be made:
A. MoF should more clearly define what control objectives are for the various delineations of contamination.
If .7 ha. is the desired average fire size for the country as whole then it follows that the target for the
RCZ should be somewhat less.
B. As discussed elsewhere, prevention of fires must be the linchpin in the fire program. Au increased effort
to decrease the number of fire starts in the RCZ must be made before expenditures are increased in
suppression.
C  Strategy for contaminated areas should be based on detecting and hitting fires as earlv as possible with
the most resources available. Tactics should be based on high production rate equipment and systems
while minimizing firefighter exposure. Suggested strategies include:
- Pursue automated detection svstems
- Utilize fixed wing aircraft as part of the detection system
- Increase production rates for initial linebuilding by utilization of aerial water delivery systems. Obtain
fixed wing rctardant or foam platforms.
- Retrofit existing or obtain new rotorwing craft in order to utilize external water buckets. This will
substantially increase abilitv to contain fires at target size.
- Increase current capability of ground forces to utilize and deliver water. Productivity of current stock
of engines and fire stations can be substantially increased by investments in hydraulic equipment and
training. Pumps, hose, and other hardware were in short supply at fire stations we observed. Current



15
crews are operating substantially below potential production rates. Delivering more water to the fire will
decreasc fire sizes and minjimize mop-up expenditures.
- Utilize existing and obtain additional bulldozers or rubber-tired vehicles for fireline cousLruction.
Environmental cabs can help insulate operators from radiation and producLion rates with these
machines can be substantially higher than with crew or engines.
- Whenever possible minimize firefighter exposure to potentially hazardous crown fires and utilize them
in low risk situaLions such as mop-up after fire has been knocked down by aerial atLack or dozer use.
:1



16
V.     DESCRIPTION OF FIRE REGIME IN BEIARUS
Vegetation
Forest fuels in Belarus are primarily of a coniferous nature, deriving from various boreal species of pine,and spruce.
Various hardwood species such as alder, oak and birch may be present in pure stands or contributing to a
heterogenous stnd.
The vast majority of forest stands are artificial plantations originating post World War II. Most stands were planted
in closely spaced parallel rows with the intention of applying one or more pre-commercial and/or commercial thinnings.
These thinnings have not always occurred in a timely fashion.
Terrain in Belarus is generally flaL and has relatively little effect on stand variation. Stands tend to be generally
homogeneous and fire behavior prediction and monitoring should be relatively straighLforward.
Following are some gross descriptors of fuel characteristics and their implications for fire behavior and effects:
Age - Stands are relatively young with low levels of dead and down biomass, resulting in low to moderate
intensity fires. As age increases average size of fuels available for consumption increases, with corresponding
higher intensity fires. Crown height and bole size increases with age resulting in increased fire resistance. Low
i              crown heights and small diameters make very young stands highly susceptible to damage from even low
intensity fires. Timning and spacings of thinnings along with degree of slash disposal will vary potential fire
behavior within a stand.
Stand Distribution - As is evident from the air, forests comprise a mosaic on the landscape, interspersed with
agricultural land and industrial use. Many stands are limited in size to only a few hundred or thousands of
hectares. This means that often fuel discontinuities will eventually be encountered, resulting in the possibility
of decreased fire behavior and opportunities for access for control.
Continuity - Horizontal and vertical continuity tend to be high, due to homogenous species distribution and
closely spaced plantings (6-13,000 trees/ha.). Ladder fuels are abundant due to dead limbs on the lower boles
as well as from suppressed stems and later seral undersiory species. This results in increased susceptibility to
crown fires and increased spread rates.
Fuel Loadings - Fuel loadings of dead and down vegetaidon, those which are mainly responsible for initial
ignition and spread of ground fires, is generally in the low to moderate range (<10 tonnes(ha). Some areas
of more mature stands or those which have been thinned or have mortality from suppressed stems may have
7!             higher loadings. Most fuel types in the nation require high windspeeds to generate high heat outputs however,
young coniferous vegetatiou is susceptible to damaging effects even from moderate fire intensities.
Non-forested Vegetation
Grass
Next to standing timber the most common fre problem appears to occur in fields of cured grass from agricultural
fields adjoining forests. Fires in grass may spread rapidly with high flame heights, sometimes carrying into forests or
sustaining fires which began in forests.



17
Slash
Clearcut and thinning operations generate slash in amounts which are potentially hazardous if no0 treated. Ministry
of Forestry officials recognize the need for slash treatments of activity fuels. Primary slash treatmnclt appears to be
handpiling and burning of excess debris. Adequate slash abatement would have to be closely integrated into any
potential thinning activities being considered.
Peat Bogs
Peat bog fires or underground fires as they are known are a problem in some areas of the country. Peat bog fires can
be difficult to control and may burn for long periods of lime. Peal fires can spread to adjacent forested lands if not
controlled. These rires constitute about 8% of the total number of rires.
Weather and Topography
Belarus generaUly has a mild to cool continental climate with one [ire season, lasting from spring until fail. Annual
precipitation in the Mozyr region was quoted as being in the region of 700 mrnyear. Lack of terrain relief appears
to result in relatively homogenous weather patterns across the country. Greater occurrence of spruce in the northern
portion of the country as well as an apparent higher fire occurrence in the southern Oblasts indicates a slightly drier
climate in the south of the country. No data for fire occurrence by month was available however, it can be inferred
that the most severe fires happen later in summer after periods of prolonged drying of larger fuels.
Although thunderstorms are known to occur, numerous officials in the forestry and fire community repeated that
lightning plays little or no role in igniting fires in the country.
The simultaneous occurrence of low huridi ies and strong frontal winds appears to result in the highest periods of
fire danger. Observation from the air indicated several large elliptical fires with large length to width ratios, an
indicator that wind was the driving factor in fire behavior.
a      Very little significant topographical relief is apparent in most of Belarus. The central portion of the nation has some
rolling hills which may contnbute to fire behavior. Without blocking structures such as hills frontal and general winds
are little affected by frictional slowing increasing the likelihood of severe wind events.
These factors may have some implications for fires in the radiation contamination zone (RCZ). Smoke plumes from
wind dominated fires may not be advected into the atmosphere to the heights that other large fires are, resulting in
less dilution of radionuclides. On the other hand prediction of smoke plume direction may be less complicated than
in mountainous terrain or situations where upper atmospheric transport is involved.
Fire Behavior Prediction
In order to plan for suppression activities and predict fire behavior and effects in an orderly fashion it is necessary to
quantify characteristics of fuelbeds in such a fashion that they will exhibit reasonably predictable rire behavior under
specified burning conditions. The Byelorussians generally characterize their stands inLo hazard classes which focus
primarily on potential susceptibility of the stand to thermal effects. In other words younger stands which are more
likely to be destroyed bv fire are assigned a high hazard rating, and older more fire resistant stands are rated a less
of a fire hazard. These ratings do not necessarily account for such things as spread rates, heat output. control forces
needed, or consumption rates. Some tables are in existence which make some predictions of fire spread rates but
cE     apparently these are limited and not widely used by on the ground managers and firefighters.
Fire prediction systems in use in North America may be of some value in calculating fire characteristics here. Outputs
from these systems may be used to calculate potential fire size, perimeter, crowning potential, control forces needed
and actual and potential level of fire danger. The Canadian Forest Fire Prediction SysLem may most readily lend itself



18
to use in this area, as some Canadian fuel types are similar to those found here. The BEHAVE Fire Prediction system
and the National Fire Danger Rating System used in the United States have elements that may help with the fire
problem in Belarus. With Lhe consideration for effects of fire on the areas contaminaLed with radionuclides it becomes
more imperative that fire behavior be better quantified.
Fuel Types
We have attempted to describe some local fuel types by the Canadian and USA systems. It is important to point OUt
that great variability exists in the outpuLs from any fire behavior system and they are meant to supplement fire
managers' experience and judgement.
Young, 1 to 20 year old conifers, ladder fuels present:
Canadian Fuel Type          - C4 or C5, Jack Pine
USA Fire Behavior System    - Fuel Model 4 or 11
Crown Fire Potential        - Very High
Resistance to Suppression   - Very high at high windspeeds
20 to 40 year old conifers:
Canadian Fuel Type          - C6 Conifer plantation
USA Fire Behavior System    - Fuel Model 9
Crown Fire Potential        - High at high vwindspeeds
Resistance to Suppression   - Moderate
40 years and clder conifers:
Canadian Fuel Tvype         - C5 Mature Red and White Pine
USA Fire Behavior System    - Fuel Model 9
Crown Fire Potential         - Moderate
Resistance to Suppression   - Moderate
Slash from harvesting:
Canadian Fuel Type          - S1 Jackpine slash
USA Fire Behavior System     - Fuel Model 11 or 12
Crown Fire Potential        - High in partial cuts
Resistance to Suppression   - High to very high
Hardwood Stands:
Canadian Fuel Type          - M2 Boreal Mixedwood-green
USA Fire Behavior System    - Fuel Models 8 or 5
Crown Fire Potential        - Low
Resistance to Suppression   - Low
This is a general illustration. All ratings are for high windspeeds. otherwise they may overrate potential fire behavior.
It is apparent that some opportunities exist for further research on fire behavior in Belarus. If efforts are underway
it is recommended that they be strengthened and coordinated between operational personnel and the research
community.
Fire Danger Rating/Preparedness Levels
Li
Belarus employs a multi-level system for rating relative levels of fire danger and actions needed to respond to changing
conditions. The system is similar to North American rating systems and utilizes a combination of current air
temperature, dew point calculations, and cumulative drying indices to set up to five levels of fire danger. Fire and



19
support personnel and equipment are assigned and positioned based on Lhe currenL danger rating. Tniis system seems
adequate but it is recommended that the MoF explore greater utilization of relative humidity as a measure of potential
fire activity. Rh is easily calculated and is a simple indicator of fine fuel moisture and receptivity to fire spread. No
calculations of fuel moisture were referred to during the field interviews with personnel. Measurements and
calculations of fine fuel moisture as well as larger fuels and duff moisture are key elements of fire planning which may
be appropriate for incorporation into the Belarus system. Also it is unclear whether forecast weather enters into fire
danger ratings. If forecast weather is not taken into account it is highly recommended that it be inLegrated into the
fire danger rating system. A meteorologist with special training in fire weather would be a valuable addition to the
fire planning program.
Fire Occurrence
Statistics for fire occurrence for the years 1980 through 1992 were available from the appendices of the Republican
Report and from the MoF RCZ report. Several charts following this text illustrate some of the statistics from this
period. Last year, 1992, was unprecedented in terms of number of fires and hectares burned. The Republic experienced
7444 fires which was 180% of the previous maximum number of fire starts (4772 fires in 1984). Hectares burned were
450% of the previous high (22148 in 1992 versus 4846 hectares burned in 1984). Fire starts were 347% of the 1980-
1991 average. Hectares burned in 1992 were 1770o of the 1980-1991 average. (See Appendix E).
One significant statistic indicates that while crown fires only occur 10 percent of the time, these more intense fires are
responsible 'or 37% of the hectares bumed. This indicates a high number of fires escaping initial attack and causing
significantly more damage.
Statistics showing fire starts and hectares burned by Oblast appear to verify that the fire regime is more severe in the
southem portion of the Republic. Examined on a per area basis, Gomel and Brest Oblasts in the south have the
highest number of fire starts and area bumed by fire. Grodno and Vitebsk in the north have the lowest fire statistics.
Since Gomel has the highest percentage of radiation contaminated territory this underlines the emphasis the Republic
puts on fire protection in the south.
Anecdotal reports indicate that a severe fire season occurs perhaps once or twice a decade. Prior to 1992 the most
severe recent seasons in terms of area burned occurred in 1983 and 1984. Byelorussian fire managers believe that 11
and 33 year sunspot cycles influence the severity of fire seasons. No data was av..lable to corroborate this contention.
Appendix A of the Republican Report indicates that some budgeting for the fire program is based on an 'emergency
level of fire hazard (once in 6 years)'. Fire managers in Minsk thought this was erroneous.
North American fire program budgeting is based on responding to an average fire load based on weather and fire
occurrence data for a recent period of ten or more years. It is unclear what the Bvelorussian basis for staffing and
funding based on. While 1992 was a landmark year there is no indication that it is part of a trend to a more severe
*      fire regime in this part of the world. Values at risk may have changed since the Chernobyl incident but fire weather
and occurrence rates may remain the same.
;K



11 1;4 -                                                 U      I  .....................J
20
VI.                                       FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
Tlie following suninmary presents ilie approximate costs in U.S. Dollars associated witli improvenictits over tihe shiort terni (3 years) whiich will focus to a large
degree on (lie restricted Chieniobyl zone.
FIRtE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                      I'll'M  DESCRIPTION                   CAI'ITAL COST   ANNUAL OPERATING                TOTAL 3 YR
cos'r                 cosTF
I   lPrevenlioni                  Camnpaigin focusinig on  public education  and
cnforcenicint                                                              100,000                     300,000
11  D)etection                   lEquipmenit purcliase iiitd insiallatio;a of clectroniic
fire deteclion system                                 1,250,000             50,000                    1,400,000
IlI  Aircraft Support             Supply of fixed wing air tankers
TIlere are a nuniber of options availabile for tie
supply of used aircraft for water or retardant
delivery to fires. Because the retardanit program
would require tl estabilishmlieint of utixinig bases at
regional airports and given the niced to deliver
large volumes of suppressants in the Clicriiobyl
restricted zone - rciardant delivery lias been ruled
out in favor of water scooping aircraft c/w on
lboard foam injectioni systenms. Prclinminary analysis
indicates that the use of two PBY Canso water-
lxntlhers wilih approxinmately 3500 litre capacity
wotuld he nmst cost effective. A contract lensiiig
arrangemncnieit wilth an optionI to purchase at tlic
cnd of 3 yrs is reconimilenided.                       400,000             350,000                    1,450,000



21
FIRE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                      ITEM D)ESCRIMTION                    CAPITAL COST   ANNUA. OPERATING               TOrAL 3 Yt
COST                 COSI
Purclhase of a liglht single or twin enginie fixed
wing aircraft for fire detection patrol and for
direction of waler bxonmbinig operations.             300,000             75,000                    525,000
Contract for two medium lift MI-8 lhelicoplers for
fire bombing anud fire support (200,000 per
niachinic/yr)                                                            400,000                   1,200,000
Adaptation of 8 MI-2 lielicopters to external sling
capalbility for water bucketinig purposes.           1,000,000                                     1,000,000
Supply of 10 water buckets (450 I capacity) for
MI-2 helicopters.                                     100,000                                       100,000
Supply of 3 water lbuckets (1500 I capacity) for
MI-8 lhelicoplers.                                     45,000                                        45,000
Forward looking infrared systent for fixed wing
aircraft.                                             130,000                                        130,000
IV  Fire-Fightiig Crew
Establishment of ii Elite 25 man fire-figlinillg
crew.                                                  6,0K0(O 80,00                               3YAW)(K
V   Conmmunications
Supply of aii upgraded communicationi system
followiig study of ceeds sssessinicin.              2,000,000                                      2,000,000
Vil Fire Enginies
Fire  Management Iiiforiiiation  System  (P'.C.
hardware and software).                               100,000                                        100,000
Refurbislhment aned retrofit of 60 fire cngincs @
10,000.                                               600,000                                       600,000



22
FIRE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                     ITEM DESCRIPI'ION                    CAPITAL COST   ANNUAL OPERATING               TOTAL 3 YR
COST                 COSTl
Vil Fireline Equipnieiin        Purcliase of new fireliiie equipment
150 punips @ 2000 =                                   300,000                                      300,000
15000 lengtihs of 38nim lhose in 30 ni lengths
i 100 =                                               150,000                                       150,000
150 chainsaw kits @ 500 -                             75,000                                        75,000
Ilandtools - 3000 shovels                             175,000                                       175,000
- 2500 pulaskis
IX  Radiation Proteclion         Radiation equipment for fire-fighiers and fircline
personnel (dust filters, smoke mask filters)          100,000                                       100,000
TOTALS                                                                               6,785,000          1,055,000                  9,950,000



23
VII.                                       CONCLUSION
It is the [ire missions subjcctive judgemenit that given the level of investment recommended the following target
objectives are achievable;
Fire incidence should be reduced by at least 20% providbig the prevention mcasures as outlined in this
report are adopted. This would bring the 13 year average of 2553 fires down lo 2042 and could very
likely reduce the numbers even further.
A reduction in average fire size from 1.2 ha. (13 yr. avg.) to the desired 0.7 ha. is achi-vable given the
recommended operational improvements.



Appendix A
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
OF BELARUS
Belarus State project and research institute -Beigiproles"
The Republican program
on forest fire protection
for 1993-2000
L
Volume1  Aide memoire with an appendix
Project parts
Volume 1 - Aide memoire with an appendix
Volume 2 - Calculations
.7



CONTENTS
1.  Characteristics of the problem
2.  Main objectives of the problem
3.  The short analysis of the present state of fire protection
4.  The level (state) of forest protection
5.  Main ways of development of the system of fire protection
5.1. Organizational and technical measures
5.2. Prevention measures
5.3. Fre detection measures
5.4. Organization of fire-extinguishing units
5.5. Organization of short-time communications
5.6. Accessibitity of roads and water sources
5.7. Availability of transport for forest fire protection
5.8. The overall need in fire-extinguishing equipment and transport
6.  Air forest protection
7.   Recommendations on the organization of forest protection in the
forest
belonging to other institutions
8.  Scientific and technical maintenance of forest protection activities
9.   Need in financial resources for program implementation
10.  Assessment of estimated (expected) effectiveness and social-
economic
aftermath of program implementation
APPENDICES
1.  The main indicators of surface forest protection development
2.  The main indicators of air forest protection development
3.  Project and research work
4.  Scientific and technical maintenance
5.  The overall need in transport, equipment and fire-extinguishing
inventory
6.  The overall need in financial resources
7.  Distribution of financial resources at forest production associations
E;           8.  Distribution of financial resources according to fire prevention
activities
9. Dynamics of forest fires
10. Damage and losses from forest fires
11. The task to work out the republican fire protection program
2



1. Characteristics of the problem
Among different nature resources of our planet the forest is one of
the most important. Forest is the treasure of our republic, the treasure
which needs constant attention and care. Fires are the most dangerous
and the most widespread forest enemies.
Forest fires cause great damage to the forest and to the whole
economy. Regardless of the development of modern methods for the
detection and suppression, extensive forest fires are still numerous today.
That is why the fire fighting activities remain the most acute in the forest
economy of the republic.
With the growing intensifica._.n of forest economy the fire hazard
(danger) grows. We need to have well organized ground (surface) and air
forest protection services which would be equipped with the modern and
effective equipment for the prevention, detection and suppression.
2. Main objectves of the program
In order to design and implement the republican program for forest
fire protection we need to improve the level of fire protection with the help
of organizational, technical and economic measures. These measures will
cut down the number of fires (fire statistics) and, accordingly, the damage
done to the economy. The structure of the main objectives is at page 13.
In order to reach the chosen goal we need to solve the problem of
fire prevention, and spreading of fires, timely detection and extinguishing
of fires at its early stage.
3. The short analysis of the present state of fire protection
The total area under forest in the Republic of Belarus (for 1.01.92)
made 8,13 mln.ha.
The main forest fund owner is the Ministry of Forestry (6,72 mIn.ha;
which makes 82,6% of all forest area). The rest belongs to other Ministries
and institutions.
8848 foresters deal with forest protection.
The fire statistics of the republic for 1982-92 (appendix 9) shows that
the annual number of fires is from 850 to 7,4 thousands (on the area of
0,2-22 thousand ha.)
The typical feature of the republic is that the extremely fire-hazardous
(dangerous) seasons are repeated approximately 2 or 3 times in a decade.
In some seasons with highly unfavourable weather conditions (summer
1992) forest fires may take shape of natural disaster.
The problem of forest fires is the most acute for our republic due to
the extensive radioactive contamination of some forestries and forest
enterprises (26,6 % of the enterprises), mainly in Gomel and Mogilev
oblasts. Forest fires in relocated zones and on contaminated territories are
very hard to extinguish; these fires result in buming out large areas, in the
transfer of radiation for long distances and the contamination of safe
3



areas. That is why fires on contaminated territories are considered to be
ecological disasters.
Surface fire protection service comprises a network of fire towers
(660) and 167 anti-fire chemical stations. Fire towers can provide
observation for 60% of the territory, chemical stations cover 20% of the
territory. The level (degree) of availabirity of fire-extinguishing equipment,
communication means and transport is only 25% of actual demand. The
annual supply of new machines and equipmer.t is only within 10% of the
amount of machines in the given year.
Air forest protection is carried out by the Belarus Air forest protection
base on the territory of 6,34 mln.ha. Air protection service (which is 9 air
groups and 3 air points) accounts for 66 people, including 53 airborne
firemen and 13 instructors. 17 helicopters and one aircraft are rented to
carry out forest protection works and activities. Air forest protection
services detect 60% of fires and considerable part of these 60% is
extinguished by airborne firemen. Nevertheless some fires come out of
control of fire-fighting services, it spreads on large areas and demand
additional labour and material resources.
Surface forest protection units are short of high-power vehicles and
means for its delivery to the fires, high effectiveness fire-extinguishing
means. All this results in the necessity to mobilize and borrow all above
mentioned machines and equipment from other branches of economy. It
also results in considerable time losses. That is why by the time these
machines and equipment have been delivered to the fires, the later
become uncontrolled and tum into natural disasters.
The general plan of anti fire maintenance of Belarus envisages the
annual expenses (including ones for air forest protection) for 1986-1990 to
be 1,68 roubles for 1 ha. The actual expenses in 1990 made 0,90 roubles
(53%) figures for other years are not included into the plan due to the
inflation. The given data shows that the lack (shortage) of resources is
tangible and visible in all spheres of forest protection: fire prevention, fire
detection, methods of fire extinguishing, informational and scientific-
technical maintenance and supply of forest fire units. The availability of
resources is nearly twice as low as the figures stipulated. In such
conditions it is hard to form a system for joining and combining all
resources and efforts for fire protection. The problem is that if only one
component of fire protection falls, the whole system breaks up, and this is
sufficient to cause large fires.
The year of 1992 tumed out to be very illustrative in this respect,
because that year 7444 fires have been detected and registered. The
bumt-out area made 22,15 thousand ha, which can be compared to the
areas planned for clear cuts -in the republic (26,7 th.ha). The losses
(damages, see Appendix 10) conceming the cost of burnt wood and other
forest products, and concerning the expenses on fire-suppression
measures made more than 226,6 min. roubles (in 1992 prices). Apart from
above mentioned material and financial losses, forest fires cause a great
damage to the nature conditions (environment). This kind of damage,
though hardly visible, is much more grave then the way it is stipulated in
4



forest fire legal acts. But due to the lack of methodology for the
assessment of such damage we have no data concerning the ecological
impact of forest fires.
Nevertheless, the year of 1992 can not be considered absolutely and
extremely fire-hazardous, because the global tendency of warmer climate
in the Northern hemisphere may result in the repeating of such climate and
weather conditions.
Thus, the present level of forest fire protection does not respond to
the ecological and social-economic demands; aviation and surface
protection units can only control forest fires in the conditions of low and
average fire statistics (* of fires).
The present program was designed specially for the Regulation
passed by the Ministry of forestry of Belarus (dated October 30th,1992)
and is aimed at the improvement and strengthening of fire protection
quality.
4. Characteristics of the level (state) of forest protection
The analysis of forest fire dynamics shows that the average fire area
for the last 10 years fluctuates from 0,14 to 2,98 ha (Appendix 9). The
largest overage fire areas were registered in the years of high fire
£            statistics, such as in 1984 (the figure 1,02), 1986 - 1,18, 1992 - 2,98. The
areas of separate fires fluctuate from several to 1500 ha. The highest
figures relate to croW fires. The distribution of fires according to their
types and areas for the last 10 years is characterised by the following
figures (in %).
According to types: surface fires - 81,5; crown fires - 10,2;
underground - 8,3 which makes accordingly 55,5% of fire areas, 37,3 and
7,2.
Thus 10% of fires relate to 37% of the areas bumt out by crown fires,
and these are the greatest fires.
Fire areas of less than 0,5 ha make 77,5%, and those of more than
0,5 ha - 22,5%.
The territory of Belarus belongs to the zone of intensive forestry
economy, for which the maximum allowable fire areas should not exceed
7            0,7 ha.
Thus, the existing level of fire protection does not secure the
observance of "0,7 ha rule", specially in high fire-hazard years.
The calculated level of forest protection in Belarus for a given period
of time is taken for the average fire area of 0,5 ha. To reach this level, the
Program stipulates the main ways and means of development of fire
protection system.
LK               5. The main ways of development of fire protection system
In order to fight forest fires in the condition of high and extreme fire-
hazard (danger) it is necessary to implement additional measures which
would secure the timely detection and suppression of fire within the
5



established (stipulated) territories; it should be done to a great extent, by
the forest enterprises themselves.
In order to radically improve the organization of fire protection the
following measures and activities are to be carried out:
a) organizational and technical measures;
b) fire prevention measures;
c) fire detection;
d) organization of fire suppression units;
e) organization of operational communication;
f) transport accessibility (roads) and water reservoirs (sources);
g) supply of fire machines, transport and fire-extinguishing
equipment;
h) air forest protection;
i) scientific and technical maintenance of forest protection.
The scope of above measures was established on the basis of the
"Norms for anti-fire activities for the zones of intensive forest
economy in the central economic region' which were included into the
document called "Directions on organization of forest protection activities
in USSR" (Moscow, 1982).
. Certain types of anti-fire activities, which were not included in the
norms were described according top the analysis of the existing data and
according to the actual production meals.
5.1. Organizational and technical measures
At present the forests belonging to the Ministry of Forestry are
administratively and economically devided into 6 production associations,
86 forestry enterprises, 714 forestries, 1759 master territorial units and
9906 obkhods (smallest structural territorial units). The average area of an
obkhod makes 678 ha.
The present program stipulates the growth of (expansion) of the part
of the forestries, master units and obkhods, which will result in the
increase of number of forest protection personnel by 551 people in 1993;
at the same time the average obkhod area will make only 642 ha (table
,7            5.1). These measures will help to improve the state of fire protection and
to focus attention on the increasing amount of forest economy, silvicultural
and forest protection activities.
Besides, in Gomel productive association which deals with the
territories of high contamination levels, three specialized forest enterprises
are organized - Nazovlyansky, Chechersky and Vetkovsky.
5.2. Fire prevention measures
Fire prevention measures include the mass enlightening (explanatory)
activities of the population and for those involved in logging. These
explanatory deals with the observation of fire protection (safety) rules in
6



the forests; prevention measures also include restriction measures which
deal with the localization of may-be forest fires.
5.2.1. Purely prevention measures
The best effect of the prevention measures can be reached only on
the condition that they would be carried out according to a certain
scheme, which is complex, multisided and multistaged.
The main forms of prevention measures are: explanatory and
enlightening work among the population, arrangement, of forest territories
and places (sites) for mass recreation activities in forests.
The stipulated amounts of prevention measures are given in Chapter
11 Appendix 1. The number of agitation explanatory stands, recreation and
smoking sites and campfire sites is increased 1,3 times; road bars - 1,1
times; parking lots - 3 times; allocations on technical explanatory work -
more than 1,5 times and so on.
5.2.2. Restricting measures
To prevent the spreading of fires on the territories belonging to the
Ministry of Forestry it is stipulated to arrange a system of anti-fire breaks,
mineralized soil trenchers, which are designed to localizes the may-be
fires.
In order to carry out the necessary amount of work for restriction
measures it is planed to increase (in 1993-2000) the amount of work
conceming anti-fire breaks 2,3 times, arrangement and maintenance of
mineralized trenchers - more than 2,1 times.
The year distribution of activities is given in Chapter 1II, Appendix 1.
5.3. Fire detection measures
The bmely detection of fires in Belarus forests can be achieved in the
following way:
1) by forest observabon from fires towers;
2) by surface forest patrolling;
3) by aviabon patrolling.
The organization air forest protection is given in Chapters 6 called
"The air forest protection".
The main method of fire detecton should be the observation from
fixed points (fire towers and masts of 25-35 metres in height).
The calculations show that in order to guarantee the observation
scanning of each forest area form at least two fire towers (with observation
range 5-7 km) it is necessary to have 1010 such towers, 365 of which
should have teletransmitting devices.
That is why the stipulated to build in 1993-2000 additional 350 towers
for 660 already existing ones.
The year distribution of construction of towers is given in Chapter IV,
Appendix 1.
7



One of the effective means of fire detection (especially in high fire-
hazard areas) is the surface patrolling carried out by forest protection
means and part-time fire watchmen.
In order to carry out patrol and control activities, the patrols should
be supplied with the transportation means (cars, motorcycles, mopeds,
bicycles, motorboats), megaphones, communication devices anti-fire
equipment and implements. It is stipulated to carry out patrolling on the
total road length of 21570 km with the total number of patrol squad of
1436 people.
5.4. Organization of fire-extinguishing units
It is stipulated to extinguish forest fires at the expense and with the
efforts of those institutions who own the forests.
Localization and suppression of fires at an early stage (the stage
when fires spread slowly and do not cover large areas) is possible only with
the availability of sufficient amount of fire-suppression equipment. In order
to effectively extinguish forest fires, it is planed to organize a network of
fire units which would be equipped with mobile transportation and fire
suppression means.
The main submits of the above mentioned units are they anti-fire
chemical stations  (ACS) and  storehouses  of anti-fire  implements
(equipment) (AFI).
At present the forestry enterprises of Belarus have 134 CAS with 278
anti-fire tanker trucks. It means that each forest enterprise has 3 tanker
trucks in average. Meanwhile, in fire-hazardous seasons the number of
fires may grow up to 10 fires on each forestry enterprise in certain day.
It is understandable that it is impossible to put out such great number
of fires at their early stage with the help of 3 tanker trucks. Thus, in order
to organize the effective surface forest protection and in order to ha-ve a
certain level of protection in the areas of up to 0,5 ha, it is obligatory to
have one basic ACS, one ACS of type 11 in every forest enterprise, and one
ACS of type I for every 3 forestries. In specialized enterprises it is
necessary to have one ACS of type I in each enterprise.
Basic ACS should be twice as equipped as those of the type II. Basic
'2           ACS should be equipped with excavation machines and trailers for its
transportation.
In order to shorten the time of fire suppression by means of surface
protection units it is planned to create 292 new ACS of different types.
Including: 25 basic ACS
6 ACS of type 11
261 ACS of type I
To complete 167 existing ACS including:
3 ACS of type 11 to make them basic
ACS type 11- 53
ACS type I - 78
To reorganize and convert 33 ACS of type 11 into ACS of type 1.
8



Also, organization of 1,879 anti-fire equipment store-places and
completing of 264 such stations out of 655 existing ones are presupposed.
Thus, the number of anti-fire equipment store station s is going to be
equal to 2,534.
The schedule of creation and completing of fire-fighting services for
various years is given in the part 5 of the Appendix 1.
In the cases when forest enterprises are not able to cope with forest
fires by themselves, they can call population, local organizations and
enterprises' transportation and fire-extinguishing means according to the
local plans of quick extinguishing of forest fires. In case they consider
these means not enough, they may appear to MoF through oblast
production forest enterprises for use of citizens' military defense
formations and army.
Equipment of fire-prevention chemical stations and anti-fire
equipment store-stations with all the necessary equipment (anti-fire
equipment, transport and communication means) is described in
calculations #182 of the volume 2.
5.5. Organization of active and quick communication
Taking into consideration the fact that Belarus is to be fire-prevented
from air and surface, the following principles are to be put into the basis of
communication system:
1. The main type of communication is to be had through radio
dubbing it through Ministry of communication lines.
2. Communication should be based on several levels:
- oblast production forest associations <--> MoF
- o.p.f.a. <--> forest enterprise
- forest enterprise <--> forest areas, forest-fire detection stations,
anti-fire chemical stations, surface patrol machines, patrol aircraft.
3. Communication is to be held on ultra-short waves.
4. Communication is to be had between/or among both stationary
and mobile points.
5. Communication structure is to be of united and comprehensive (for
surface and aircraft services) nature. To create stable active quick mutual
communication which would allow timely waming and cooperation among
fire-fighting units the programme presupposes a united communication
system, its exploitation and maintenance. For this purpose purchase of 192
stationary, 1,310 mobile and 7,072 portable radiostations in addition to
those acting is planned. Besides, creation of 413 km of telephone lines,
reparation of 210 km of telephone lines and purchase of 1,277 phones are
planned. To repair and maintain communication means each oblast
production forest association is going to have 2 reparation groups. The
9



distribution of the technical means to be purchased is shown in the part 6
of the Appendix 1.
ENSURING TRANSPORT ACCESSIBILITY
AND PROVIDING WITH WATER RESERVOIRS
Quickness of anti-fire means delivery to the fire sources depends
upon the presence ard quality of road network. Besides, roads perform
anti-fire barrier function and may be used as support for forest fire
extinguishing.
Road length in the forests makes 0.4-0.45 km per 100 ha of average
forest-covered territory, including 0.25-0.3 km of roads of satisfactory
quality; Average density of roads in surface forest protection served woods
should usually be not less than 0.6 km per 100 ha. Thus, 0.25-0.3 km of
roads per 100 ha (roads of satisfactory quality are meant) are insufficient
for providing timely delivery of anti-fire means for the sources of possible
forest-fires.
According to the above-said, the programme plans the annual
construction of new anti-fire roads 57-80 km long, as well as reparation
and maintenance of existing forest and anti-fire roads 1,140 km long per
years.
Successful forest-fire extinguishing with water means is possible only
on condition of water derivery with no considerable time breaks. This is
possible if water reservoirs are situated not farther than 2-4 km from fire
sources in the forests of the 1st group, or 5-8 km from those of the 2nd
group.
The average Belarus forest fire danger class is 11, I.
To meet this requirement the programme presupposes creation of
anti-fire water reservoirs capable of not less than 300 m3 (not less than
1,336 of them) and also of roads to 928 water reservoirs, and construction
of 723 water wells.
Distribution of these works per years is given in the part 7 of the
Appendix 1.
5.7. Providing forest protection service with transportation means
It               Beside equipping fire-fighting services with transport the programme
presupposes equipping the state forest guard service with transport, which
is going to pursue anti-fire educational work among the population, forest
patrolling and checking fire safety norms observation in the woods.
For the period of 1993-2000 it is planned to purchase (in addition to
already used transport) 143 jeeps, 57 heavy motorcycles, 280 medium-
sized motorcycles, 5,273 light motorcycles, 2,988 mopeds, 1,529 bicycles
and 10 motorboats.
Distribution of the above-listed transport is shown in part 8 of the
Appendix 1.
Increase of the number of horses up to 5,260 is also being planned.
K                                                                           10



5.8. Total need of fire-extinguishing and transportation equipment and
combustibles and lubricants.
The need of fire-extinguishing and transportation equipment for
further fitting out the existing and being organized anti-fire chemical
stations is shown in calculations 1-7 placed in volume 2.
The need in purchasing transportation means for state forest
protection service doing educational work, fire-prevention patrolling of
forests and checking   observation of fire-safety norms is shown in part 8
of the Appendix 1.
The general need of machines, equipment, combustibles and
lubricants for forest fire-fighting services, airbome fire-fighting teams, for
organization of quick-response communication is shown in Appendix 5 of
this Volume.
6. Aircraft forest-protection service.
Aircraft forest protection (AFP ) is executed by Belarus aircraft forest
protection base. The total temtory supervsed by aircraft equals to 6.35
mln ha.
Timely detection precise discovery of fire sources, quickness of
communication (which allows rational organization of fire extinguishing by
aircraft or surface forest-protection services themselves) are main qualities
of aircraft forest-protection service.
AFP should be started and stopped when it is required by weather
conditions of a given fire season.
Regarding the quantity of forest fires for 1 min ha (379 cases) of
forest-covered land, Belarus forests are to be dealt with as those with high
factual fire danger. The density of forest fires equals to 2.1 per day. On the
basis of these data and also of airbase and patrol activities the total
number of aircraft necessary for aircraft forest protection was calculated.
For the fire season it is planned to have an AN-2 plane and 17 MI-2
helicopters, and also 2 AN-2 airplanes with a 1.5 ton capable water tank
for each (theses are intended to be used on radiation-contaminated
territories of forest enterprises). These aircraft are placed on 9 aircraft
group sites and 3 aircraft points.
Besides, for fire emergencies caused by specific weather conditions
additional rental of 6 airplanes AN-2 with mean flight time equal to 60
hours for fire season. To quickly eliminate forest fires in 9 aircraft-groups
there are 53 airbome firemen and 13 instructors.
For landing of helicopters on the territories of forest enterprises 362
temporary landing sites are planned to be created. Other aircraft anti-fire
forest-protection measures are to be taken.
Distribution of implementation of these measures according to years
is given in Volume II ('Calculations-).
7. Recommendations on anti-fire protection of forests which belong
to other sectors.
11



At the present moment anti-fire forest protection in other sectors and
organizations is unsatisfactory. This is especially true for collective farms'
forests.
Neighbouring with state forest fund forests in some places, such CF's
forests become sources of many forest fires and their speeding to the
forests of sr . e forest enterprises.
To prevent kolkhoz, sovkhoz and other organizations' forests from
fires all the measures to take in the forests of state forest fund should be
taken. State forest guard service is responsible for monitoring of carrying
out the measures.
Forest and other enterprises having various activities and/or objects in
the forests should necessarily and fully meet the requirements of the "Anti-
fire safety rules for the USSR's forests". Before fire season starts in all
enterprises having forest activities there volunteer fire-fighting groups
should be formed out of workers and employees which have been specially
taught and trained .
Rapid development of industrial sectors and urbanization measuresthe
increase the need for creation of conditions for people to have a rest. Here
the question of recreational use of forests arise.
Recreational forests of MoF now cover about 1 min ha. They form
green belts around populated areas, cities, towns and industrial centers
Green zones are created around 108 towns of Belarus. Minsk green zone
is the largest one and covers 271,000 ha.
Sociology polls and calculations made by Belarus scientific research
institute for town-erection expect every citizen to annually have 80 hours'
rest in the forest by 2000 and average growth of the member of holiday-
makers is going to make 36,000 persons per year.
There is direct relationship between the number of holiday-makers
and the number of forest fires.
For the last decade each 1,000 people have had 0.25 forest-fires.
Thus, for only this reason extra 9 fires may be expected for a season. To
prevent forests from fires a number of anti-fire measures should be
prepared. It is possible to carry out the measures on improvement of
territories, construction of access roads and parking lots, creation of water
reservoirs, etc., only if forestry is specially financed and also given the
funds by local authorities and interested enterprises.
8. Scientific and technical provision of forest protection works
All the scientific and forestry experts' training organizations,
specialized projecting and conversed defense institutions should be
involved into scientific and technical provision of forest protection works.
During the period of 1993-2000 it is supposed to work out scientific
technologies for extinguishing forest fires in the radiation-contaminated
zone and underground fires and for remote extinguishing of forest fires
with the help of new machinery.
12



New general plan for anti-fire forest measures and various methodical
documentation, and norms, and instructions. Scientific and technical
expenses are shown in the Appendix 4.
9. The need for finances to realize republican anti-fire forest-
prevention programme
Expenses were calculated according to anti-fire measures on the
basis of projects, technological charts and equipment costs in 1984 prices
translated into 1993 February prices. Factual coefficients of changing costs
of constriction works and equipment. Personnel expenses are defined
according  to  the  "United  payment  system   of  Belarus  and
Recommendations of how to use it' adopted by State Labour and Social
Protection Committee's regulation * 5 of 21.01.93.
Social insurance makes 40.8% and employment fund takes 1% of
saLaries fund and are included into general personnel expenses.
The total need for finances for 1993-2000 Belarus anti-fire forest
protection makes 31,552,790,000 roubles including 27,767.250.000
roubles (88%) for surface forest protection and 3,785,540,000 roubles
(12%). See Appendix 6.
The total amount of capital investments for the above-listed years
equals to 14,070,660,000 Rb (46.6%) and that of operation expenses
equals to 17,482,130,000 Rb (55,4%).
The most part of capital investments (52.5%), which equals to
7,389,950,000 Rb) is to be used during the 1st three years (1993-1995).
This is explained by the necessity of creation of quickly reacting anti-fire
systems, completing of fire-extinguishing services' equipment, creation of
basic anti-fire chemical stations and specialized forest enterprises.
Man arnual need for capital investments equals to 1,758,B30,000 Rb
(2,463,320,000 Rb for each of the initial years 1993-1995 and
1,336,140,000 Rb - for the following years.
Out of 14,070,660,000 Rb of all capital investments 3,177,080,000 Rb
(22.6%) go to construction needs and 10,893,580,000 (77.4%) - to
purchase of equipment.
The total need for operation expenses for the period of 1993-2000
3           equals to 17,482,130,000 Rb.
Mean annual need for operation expenses equals to 2,185,270,000
Rb with a slight 3.75% annual increased.
This is explained by the necessity of annual carrying out all the
complex of anti-fire measures and by the complex' even growth.
The total need for finances is the following for Oblast production
forest association (OPFA):
1. Brest OPFA    4,214,660,000 Rb     (13.3%)
2. Vitebsk OPFA    5,111,430,000 Rb   (16.2%)
3. Gomel OPFA    7,502,830,000 Rb     (23.8%)
including specialized forest enterprises 1,136,420,000 Rb (3.6%)
4. Grodno OPFA    3,276,820,000 Rb    (10.4%)
5. Minsk OPFA    6, 611, 510,000 Rb   (21.2%)
13



6. Mogilev OPFA    4,655, 220,000 Rb        (14.7%)
7. MoF              110, 320,000 Rb         (0.4%)
Total:         31,552,790,000          (100%)
The most urgent need, for finances is suffered by Gomel OPFA
(23.8%). Less money is needed by Grodno OPFA (see Appendix 7).
According to the types of basic expenses the finances are subdivided
as follows:
1. Construction of buildings  3,012,940,000 Rb           9.5%
far tire-fighting services
2. Construction of fire-    164,160,000 Rb               0.5%
detection towers
3. Construction and        3,633,430,000 Rb             11.5%
maintenance of the fire-
access roads
4. Purchase of             11,413,340,000 Rb            36.2%
transportation, anti-tire and
communication means
S. Aircraft rental         3,432,720,000 Rb             10.9%
6. Salaries                3,778,960,000 Rb              12%
7. Other anti-fire measures  6, 117,240,000 Rb          19.4%
Total                                                    100%
Most part of money is intended for equipment purchase (36.2%). This
is explained by not only the quantity of the necessary equipment, but also
by higher rate of the increase of its price (approximately by 3 times) in
comparison with other expenses (see Appei:Jix 8).
Average annual expenses per 1 ha of protected territory for the
period of 1993-2000 are going to equal to 587 Rb.
The need for finances is given in 1993 February prices and is going to
change because of the continuous skyrocke:.ng of prices.
7                  Taking into account the fact that forests are national property and
have global ecological purpose, the money to finance implementation of
the republican anti-fire forest-prevention programme should be granted by
the Government and spent strictly according to the purpose.
10. Expected efficiency and social and economic results' /of the
program/appraisal.
The effect of the realization of the programme is to be achieved
through:
- decrease of forest fire opportunities occasions;
- increase of efficiency of fire-detection and fire extinguishing;
14



- fire time limitation, especially on the radiation-contaminated
territories, and fire-burnt area restriction.
Since operation expenses are going to increase by approximately
26.2% for the period of the programme implementation (1993-2000) and
since necessary capital investments are going to increase during the first 3
years up to the level of normal anti-fire system's work, the decrease of the
number of forest fires is expected to be a result. With this during the first
three years of financial investments (1993-1995) into anti-fire forest
protection stopping of the growth of the quantity and area of forest-fires is
expected.
I
15



The order to project institute -Belhyproles" to create the
republican anti-fire forest-protection programme for 1993-2000.
(Approved by G.A.Markovsky, the Minister of Forestry of Belarus,
on 5.01.93.
I. General ideas.
1.1. The decision of the MoF board is the grounds for the programme
to be worked out.
1.2. The republican purpose-oriented anti-fire forest-protection
programme should cover a range of anti-fire forest-protection measures
for the state forest fund and other sectors' forests.
2. Purpose.
2.1. The republican programme is to be worked out to radically
improve anti-fire forest protection for Belarus.
3. Orientations.
The orientations are:
3.1. - to briefly analyze the present situation in the domain of anti-fire
forest protection or the last few years.
3.2. - to give the grounds for setting the anti-fire forest-protection
level to ensure minimal harm to nature-protecting Belarus resources,
caused by forest fires.
3.3. - to give recommendations on other institutions' forest-fire-
prevention measures.
3.4. - to organize mass recreation forest areas, to recommend on
their use.
i                3.5. - to improve the structure and employees' number of forest
guard services.
3.6. - to set a direction for scientific and projecting works for fire
extinguishing and to appraise possible costs.
3.7. - to achieve the proper fire-protection level by.
a) working out a new general plan of anti-fire measures in Belarus
forests for the next 8-120 years;
b) working out technical projects of anti-fire measures for the most
fire-dangerous forest enterprises;
c) improving fire-prevention measures and fire-resistance measures;
1E



d) improving the fire-detecton system by the creation of a circled
network of observation towers, by aircraft patrolling, and introduction of
the brand-new scientific and technical achievements (TV-monitoring
stations, aircraft-mounted detectors, etc.);
e) creation of the quick-response communication;
f) creation of the fire elimination service using the newest machinery;
g) meeting the requirements for anti-fire and transportation means.
4. Composition of the proposed materials and implementation
periods.
4.1. The programme should contain:
- an explanatory note;
- appendices and tables with the description and appraisal of works.
4.2. Methodological base is 'Directions for anti-fire measure
projecting for the forests of the USSR'.
4.3. The work should be accomplished by the end of 1993.
Mikhail V.Kuzmenkov
Head of Forestry and Game Dept.
Ic
17



Appendix B
Radioecological Considertions
3.        Fires
3.1.      Overview of Radioecological Situation for Fires
Forest fires can potentially disperse radioactivity from the contaminated zones
to non-contaminated areas. This dispersion can occur from suspended particles and gases
being carried by the wind during a fire. After a fire, contaminated ashes may also be
suspended if a strong wind event occurs. The amount emitted varies greatly with the
intensity of a fire and with fire temperatures. Most radionuclides will be suspended with
smoke particles. However, in hot fires, at temperatures exceeding 5000C, some 137Cs can
be released as a gas. Very hot temperatures are usually associated with forest crown fires,
and can range up to 1000°C. Fires burning the soil litter layer are usually cooler. This is an
inmportant factor in radionuclide release because the bulk of the radioactivity is in the litter
it       layer and poses the greatest emission hazard. If ground fires are cooler, then little i3Cs
should be emitted as a gas.
Emission factors for radionuclides from fires are uncertain but are less than
100 %. That is, some quantity of radioactivity will be left behind in the ash, even if all fuel
is combusted. The emission factor depends on the type of fire. Belarus scientists assume
that 80 % of the radioactivity could be released by a fire. This is likely a high value for
most fires, and depends on whether the soil litter layer is combusted.
For fire management, we must consider that most of the radioactivity will be
in particulate form and can be filtered for fire-fighter safety. However, gaseous
radionuclides released in the more contaminated zones could be in sufficiently high
7        concentrations to warrant additional fire-fighter safety precautions.
The concept of fire suppression involves the containment of radioactivity
without allowing dispersion. This decreases the risk to the general public but increases the
risk to fire-fighters and other workers associated with fire detection and prevention. This
is a difficult trade-off because dilution in the atmosphere tends to reduce the public risk
substantially, especially in a vigorous fire where smoke can be transported to high altitudes.
An example of worker versus public risk relationships is that public exposure is usually
restricted to 10 % of the limits for workers. This contrasts with dispersion factors for



atmospheric pollutants of greater than 1000, meaning that downwind conditions for the
public should be more than 1000 times safer than those for workers close to a fire.
However, very few workers are exposed compared to the general public and total human-Sv
received would need to be compared.
3.2.     Worker Safety
Workers include those associated with fire prevention, detection and
suppression. In all cases, workers can receive an external dose from radionuclides (mostly
37Cs) in soil and plants. Only workers involved in fire suppression wiDl be exposed to
substantial doses caused by inhalation of radioactivity. The annual limit of uptake of 137Cs
for workers recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection is
2x106 Bq through inhalation. This would result in a dose of 20 mSv. However, as in the case
of forest harvesting, the principle of "as low as reasonably achievable" should be employed
to reduce risks.
Within the mapped zones of radionuclide contamination, there will be
hotspots of localized contamination. For example, the "'Cs concentration in soil can vary
by a factor of 10 within a 30 cm x 30 cm area and there are likely to be hotspots over a
scale of a few hundred meters. This makes it difficult to calculate potential worker exposure
in advance to better than an order of magnitude. Data are not available giving doses to
forest fire fighters in contaminated areas.
Applying the concept of reducing doses to "as low as reasonably achievable",
safety measures should be taken to protect workers. Examples are minimizing the use of
a1       ground forces to fight fires in contaminated areas, providing fire-fighters with efficient dust
masks to be worn in contaminated zones and careful monitoring of fire-fighters to
determine doses received. Doses can be minimized by rotation of workers in contaminated
areas. In the most contaminated zones, doses would decrease if the majority of fire
suppression could be achieved with water or fire retardants being delivered from aircraft.
Workers involved with fire prevention and detection are mostly exposed to
external doses. This can be best monitored through the use of personal dosimeters with
accurate, current records being kept to decide on the impact on workers. Control of



contaminated clothing is an important consideration especially in areas where a worker is
in contact with contaminated soil. Care should be taken to minimize skin contact with
contaminated soil. Most of these considerations are inexpensive to implement.
Workers involved in aerial surveillance should also be monitored with
personal dosimeters but they will receive lower doses than ground crews as a result of their
height and lack of contact with soil. If aerial crews are immersed in fire plumes, respirators
or dust masks are an inexpensive precaution.
Fire surveillance workers in towers are at a lower risk than ground crews
because they are further from the contaminated ground surface and do not come in contact
with the soil. They should also be monitored for external exposure to ensure safety.
Automated television systems may be a reasonable alternative in heavily contaminated
areas.
3.3       Public safety
Belarus has a substantial air quality monitoring network that includes daily averages of
radioactivity in air. These measurements help to evaluate doses to the general public.
Although the network has a reasonable density of stations, some of the population will
be exposed to higher concentrations than is indicated by the stations, and these people may
receive doses close to those received by fire fighters. In 1992, fires in Belarus did not result
in air concentrations in excess of the acceptable levels.
If a fire cannot be extinguished in a highly contaminated area, and it appears
that the population could be exposed over a period of many hours to days, then public
v       precautions can be taken to minimize the dose received. The simplest precautions involve
rapid communication to the public that an undesirable situation may arise. This would only
be necessary for the population that is close to the fire and could be exposed to the smoke.
Remaining indoors would help to reduce the amount of inhaled radioactivity from the
smoke plume.



3.4      Issues to Consider
3.4.1     Fire prevention
Some fire prevention programs may require workers to carry out activities in
contaminated areas. For example, cleansing potential fuel and planting trees for fire breaks
will require ground crews to be exposed. These activities are similar to harvesting activities
and similar precautions should be taken. Workers should be monitored for radiation
exposure and some protection against inhalation should be provided for dusty operations.
3.4.2     Fire Detection
The greatest risk in fire detection is to ground crews patrolling the area.
Workers in observation towers can also be exposed to external radiation. In all cases,
monitoring of workers and minimization of exposure should be considered. Aerial crews
can also be monitored but they are at lower risk in most areas. If the same aerial crews are
also used in fire suppression, then they will be monitored anyway.
3A.3      Fire supnression
In the more contaminated areas, probably those with more than 15 Cl/km2
of 13CS, ground crews should be minimized for fire suppression. Alternative methods, such
as aerial releases of water or retardants, could help reduce the need for ground crews. The
use of respirators or dust masks would help-to reduce inhaled doses to those in aircraft or
on the ground. Monitoring of workers is important as is control of contaminated clothing
and equipment.
In areas with between I and 15 Cl/km2 precautions are not as critical.
However, the boundaries between contamination zones will not be clear to fire-fighters in
the field. Therefore, it may be best to practice similar precautions in all areas with more
than 1 Ci/AM2 of U7Cs.



3.5       Research on Fires.
Research should be focused on minimization of radiological doses to workers
and the public and on aspects of radionuclide transport, cycling and dispersion from fires.
Research on safety includes rigorous studies of the doses received by workers
in fire prevention, detection and suppression. Improved monitoring techniques and data
management are worthy goals. Research on improved respirators or masks would help
ensure that fire-fighters have adequate protection. These respirators must filter out
radioactive particles and also be designed for fire-fighter comfort to ensure that they will
worn. Such respirators also help to reduce total particle inhalation which provides
protection against many non-radioactive substances. Respirators that prevent inhalation of
radioactive gases may not be required in this area, but research to confirm this is needed.
In the area of fire radioecology, the rate of emission of radionuclides from
fires requires more attention. This will help to calculate dispersion of radionuclides by fires,
loss of radioactivity from contaminated areas and risk to workers and the public.
Redistribution of ash after a fire should also be studied; for example, if the leaf-litter layer
of the soil is burned, will radionuclides be freed to milgrate into the soil and be taken up
by surviving trees? Will there be changes to the chemical form of 1Cs or 'Sr after a fire?
How readily can the ash be suspended by wind? Research on deposition rates of
radionuclides from fires to surrounding uncontaminated areas would also be useful to
predict doses to the general public.
3.6       Recommendations for Fires
(i)   If fire suppression is elected to prevent the dispersion of radioactivity,
doses to workers should be minimized through the use of monitoring and devices to reduce
inhalation.
(ii)  In the most contaminated zones, ground crews should be minimized
and supplemented with technical improvements in the areas of fire prevention, detection
and suppression.



APPENDIX
Forest Fire Radiological Dose Calculations
The following are some calculations of doses to workers in a smoke plume. They are
based on some generic factors often used in safety assessments. Site specific factors for
Belarus fires would give more accurate values. The following calculations use some
conservative assumptions that maximize the dose, i.e. the actual dose should be lower.
A.   External dose from standing on contaminated zround.
For '3Cs contamination of 1 Ci/km2 = 37 kBq/m2, assuming the receptor is
1 m above contaminated ground for one hour, we calculate an effective body dose (from
j        Canadian Standards Assoc. CAN/CSA-N288.1-M87, 1987).
Dose = '37Cs density * dose conversion factor =
37 x 103 Bq x 1.65 x 10-8 Sv m2   Yr
m2            yr Bq 8766h
Dose= 7 x 104 Sv/h
From 'Sr at same density, dose conversion factor for effective body dose is
0, but there could be some skin dose.
B.     Dose from inhalation.
First, calculate the concentration in the smoke plume and assume a person
standing in the plume. This calculation is very crude. For 1 Ci/lam2, we assume that most
of the danger is from the soil litter layer and that it is also burned. Our assumed release
rate is 100% of the total "'Cs in the area. This figure is high, probably by about a factor
of 5.



We need to assume a dispersion factor but this depends on wind speed and
atmospheric stability. For simplicity, we assume that the suspended smoke is concentrated
to a height of only 5 m, which is conservatively low but would correspond to smoke during
mop-up operations. Therefore:
Air concentration = 37 x 103       = 7400      Bq
5m      m3               m3 air
The calculation of dose is
Dose = air concentration * inhalation rate * dose conversion factor
Dose = 7.4 x 103    q  x  8617 x 2 m3 air x 2OmSv yr = 0.15 mSv for 137CS
mn3 air    yr 2x10' Bq 8766 h         h
Dose = 7.4 x 103 Bu x 8617 x 2 x 20 x 10'3    Sv = 5 mSv/h for 0Sr
8766            6x104             h
Here we have used the dose conversion factors recommended by the
International Commission on Radiological Protection in 1990. The dose conversion factor
for 'Sr is based conservatively for long-term retention in the lungs. The values for
inhalation are based on the annual inhalation rate for humans, multiplied by a factor of 2
to account for heavier breathing during fire fighting activities.
C.   Dose from immersion in a smoke cloud
Humans can also receive a dose while immersed in a smoke cloud. This is
calculated as Dose = concentration in smoke - dose conversion factor=
= 7.4 x 103 fI   x   83x 107Sv m3Vr =        7.3 x 10' mSv/h for 137CS
m3 air    yr Bq 8766 h
and effective dose for "Sr is zero although there is some dose to the skin.
D.   Total Dose
The total dose is the sum of all components. These are shown here for '"Cs
and '0Sr based on our assumptions.



Dose from 1 ci/km2 (mSv/h)
Source                  U7Cs                          9Sr
Ground                     7x10 5                         0
Inhalation                  0.15                          5
Smoke Cloud                7x104                          0
Total                       0.15                          5
This table illustrates that inhalation of smoke is the greatest hazard.
Radiological protection limits for workers are 20 mSv/yr. Therefore, if a worker was
exposed to the conditions that we prescnbed in the 1 Ci/km2 zone of '37Cs, he could remain
in the area for about 100 h or four days before he would receive his annual allowable dose
as a radiation worker. The calculations are linear so that at 40 Ci/km2, the worker would
receive 20 mSv in about 3 hours. The situation for a similar contaminated level of 9'Sr is
much shorter. These calculations assume that no equipment is used to filter breathing air
and that the worker washes his skin and clothes thoroughly after the fire. We have not fuDy
accounted for the dose caused by deposited particles on skin and clothing, but the dose can
be minimized with complete clothing coverage. The contribution from "'Cs caused by
particles on skin and clothes is probably similar to smoke immersion.
Our conservative calculations probably overestimate the dose by as much as
a factor of 10, and more research in this area would help define better values.
Soot and particles are a reality in fire-fighting. Precautions must be taken to
minimize transport of radioactivity on clothing and skin. These workers in contaminated
zones should take precautions consistent with Atomic Radiation Workers.
These dose calculations include "'Cs and 9'Sr. Similar calculations should be
done for other radionuclides such as 2" Pu.
aI



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:06                                                              P.02
Appendix C
Minsk 1993                                                    Draft
Republic of Belarus
Miristry of Forestry
Forest fire prevention measures in the
radiation-contaminated zone
;. Main tasks and objectives of the project
lThc forest fire problem is especially urgent for Belarus because of
considerable madiation contamination of the forests (see Annex 1).
The Chemobyl NPS breakdown msuLted in radiation contaminaton of
the foreSts manaed by 49 forest enteeprises of the republic (further divided
into 320 forest areas). The total tertory of the contaminated forcss equals to
1,749,000 ha.
No forest activity and logging operation take place on the temitmry of
187,800 ha (radiation background of 15+ Cun per km2 ). Limited forest
activities are allowod on the terzitory of about 312,000 ha (radiation
backgound of 5-15 Curi per kln2). On the rest of the radiation-contaminted
teritory ie, works arc not Lo be donc without Ludiomctring and dozimetizing
monitorig. -
Radiation contmination hinders to sucecssfulny carry out the fire-
prevention measures and leads to the fire spreading on the large termtoncs
which causes laire-scale cotiion of the trrtory of the republic. That
is why the forest fires taking place on the radiation-conmrminated territory are
-'                 an ecological calamity.
An object of the forest-fir  prevention prject for the radiation-
contaminated zone is the improvemet of forest-fire protection for the cost of
implementation of a complex of technical and economic measures which
would considerably decrease the possibility of forest-buming.
To achieve thse aims it is necemiy to ensure the prevention of the
strt and spreading of forest fires, their timely detection and &tinguishing in
the fist stages.
LIE
T~i q    " '3 14:04                                                        PAGE.002



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:06                                                                P.03
2. Concise analysis of the state of Belacus forest-protection.
T'he total Belarus foret-covered area makes 8.13 m/n ha. The main
forest-fund managing institution is the Ministry of forety (its forest cover
6.72 m/n ha which make 82.6 % of the whole forest-covcred territory). The
rest (1.41 m/n ha) is owned by other Ministrics and institutions.
The analysis of the forest-bumability for 1982-1992 shows that annually
850-7,400 forest fims happen on the territory 200-22,000 ha.
Forest fire protection meaures are being carried out by both the surface
and aircrft protection services.
The surface forest-fire protecion is presented by a network of
observation towers (which are 660 in number, including 290 towess in the
radiation-contaminated zone) and anti-fire chemical stations (which are 167
in numnber, including 96 stations in the radiation-contaminated zone). The
towers serve about 60% of the temitory, the stations - about 20%.
The level of providing the surface service with the fire-ingui
means, communication meazis and tansport equals to about 25%  of the
nonm.
The aircraft protection of forests is being caried out by the Belarus
forest-protection air-basc on the terirory of 6.34 rn/n ha. The aircraft servicc
conss of 9 airgroups and 3 airea    staions with total number of the
personnel equal to 66 persons, including 53 airbome firemen and 13
istuctors.
For aircraft forest-prLectiioi activities 17 helicopters and 1 airplane are
being rnted. This type of service helps detection of up to 60 % of forest
fires, a considerable part of which is exinguished by airborne firemen. The
Annex 2 prsernts the analysis of forest-burning i Belarus radiation-
contaminated zonc berore the Chemobyl disastr (1980-1986) and after it
(!986-1992). -lbis  analysis shows the  necessity  of working-out and
implementation of ant-fire forst protectioni project for the radiation-
contaminated zone (RCZ).
3. Maii diretfions of thc developmcnt and improvmcnt
of the forest-fire prevr-tlion system in the RCZ.
For the satisfy fire-fighti  in the very dangerous conditions it is
necessary to carry out additional measures ensuing the timely fir detection
and extinguisbing on the minimal territory mosty by the forest enterprises
themselves. To fuilly improve the state of the anti-fire forest protection in the
RCZ tihc foUowing measures arc presupposed:
- organizational and technical measures;
- preventive measures;
- forest-fire detection;
- creation of fire-extnguishing service;
JUL 6 '93  14:05                                                             PAGE. 03



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:07                                                                P. 04
maintenance by more than 2.1 times. The project amounts of the limitation
measures arc presented in the pat 2 of the Annex 2.
Forest-fire detectioxi mcasues
The timely detection of the forest fres is presupposed in the projcct by:
- forest situation observation from special erected towers;
- suriface forest patrolling;
- aircraft forest patrolling.
The main way of forest-fire detection, defined by the projecL, is
observation from the stationary points (anti-fure observation towcrs and masts
25-35 metres high).
Calculations sliow that to ensure observAion of each forest And from
minimally two point (5-7 km for each one) it is necesary to have 450 such
stations in the forest enterprises situated in RCZ, out of which 160 will be
equipped with TV devices. That is why in addition to 290 forest-ire
observation Lowers 160 ones are projected to be built.
On the highly dangerous areas it is planned to have suwface patrolling of
the forest by forest guards and temporry fire-watchmen. For proper
patrolling it is supposed to provide forest guards with transport,
communication means, anti-fire equipmcnt and other implements. All in all,
it is projected to have patrolling, on the routes 10,000 mn long with the total
nunbcr of patrol men equal to 640.
Creation of fire-extinguishing services
Localization and extinguishg of the forest-fires in thcir first stages arc
possible only when sufficient quantity of timely origamzd, created and
prepared means of i     is .
For efficient forest-fire exinguishing in RCZ it is projected to create a
system anti-fire forest-protection scrvice, cquipped with mobile ransport and
fire-extnguishing means. The main units of such services are anti-fire and
chemical stations of various typcs, as well as stations of anti-fir implements'
keepiw.
In this project it is also presupposed to have one anti-fire chcmical
station for cach of thrre forest enterprises, and for each of two forest
enterprises - one anti-fire chemical station.
BasLc fire prevention chemical stations are to be equipped with fire-
prcvcntion machinery two times more than usual ones and to be fortified
with earth-moving mascinery and its carriers. Besides, creation of 830 anti-
fire implements points and bctcr completing of those 116 acting ones arc
presupposed.
JaL  6 '93  14:05                                                            PRGE.004



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:07                                                                P.05
- ensuring of flexible communication;
- cnsuring of transport accessibility;
- provision of water supplies;
- provision of anti-fire transport machinery;
- arcraft forest protection;
- scientific and project support of fortsL-protcction activities.
Organizational and technical measurcs
At the present moment the forests of the Belarus Ministry of Forestry
arc administratively divided into 6 production amalgamations =86 forest
cnterprises = 714 forst areas =* 1759 master areas = 9906 forest guard arec,
f obkhod, of which the averagc trritory equals to 678 ha).
Tihis project presupposes enlaring some forest aua and obkhod stff by
830 persons and decreasing the average obkhod down to 642 ha in RCZ,
which would ;mprove anti-fir forest-protection and the level of other forest
actiMities.
Besides, in Gamel nblast produLtion forest amalgamation on the
territories where the are especially high contamination levels creation of 3
specialzed forest cnterpises is presupposed. Their basic activity will be
organization of anti-fire forest protection.
Preventivc measures
PM consist of the agitation measures (aimed at the explanatory work
among the local population and foest companies and workers about the fire
safety in forest) and those limitig possibility of forest fires.
Agitation measures
The main kdnds of such measures arc explanatory and educational work
among the population and Improvement of the  state of die tertory and
recreational forest areas. The increase of the number of such measures in the
part I of the Annex 2. The project presupposes a considerable increase of the
deqipment of: agitation stands, recreation places, smoking places, campig
fire place by 1.3 times, road-blocking bars by 1.1 times, parkng lots by 3
times, illocations for agitation by more than 1.5 times, etc.
Fire-possilities limiting measures
31                      To bring the existing amount of works on  limitaion measures in
accordance with the regulations' requirements the increase of the amount of
anti-fie breaks works by 2.3 times, and of that of mine lines7 creaion and
JUL 6 '93  14:06                                                             PAE05



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:08                                                              P. 06
Creation of active and quick conmunuication.
Taidng into consideration the fact that in thLc republic both surface and
aircraft forest protection from the firn the foilowing principles of
communication:
1. The main type of active quick flexible communication is
mdioconununication dubbed with telephone lines.
2. Co     ication should have several lcvcls:
- oblast production forest amalgamation = Ministry of Forestry
- obl.prod.forcst am. = forest enterprise
- forest enterprse = forest area, forcst fire observation stations, fire-
prevention chcmical stations, surfacc patrol transport, a patrol aircraftL
3. Commwucation should be perfonned on ultra-short waves
4. Communication devices may be installed on both the stationary and
mobile units.
S. Communication should be of one nature for both surface and air
forest-protcction unts.
To create stable quick flexible bilateral communication which would
allow carrying out the tasks of timely informing and interaction among fire-
extinguishing units, the project presupposes crcation of a united
communication system and its technical maintenanec.
'he programme of the development of communication system is
shown in the part 5 of the Annex 3.
Ensuring the amnsport accessibility and watcr reservoir availability.
The quickness of fire-extinguishing means delivery to the fies depends
upon the availAbiity and qualit of roads. Besides, roads may peform the
role of fire-stopping barriers and may be used as support for forest fire
extnguishing. According to nomis for surface anti-fire forest-protection the
dcnsity of a road network should not be lcss than 0,6 lkn pcr 100 ha. In fact,
the road network density in forests of Belanis equals to 0,4-0,45 knm
including thosc of satisfactory conditions cqual to 0,25-0,3 km per 100 ha
In accordance with thei above-said information the project presupposes
construction of 260 km of anti-fire roads.
Successful elimination of forest-fires is possiblc only on the condition
that water would be delivered to fire sources wih no long drlays. lt will be
Wal if water reservoirs are placed in the forests with the 1st fir danger class
not farther than 24 kn from one another, in those with the 2nd f.d.cl. - 5-8
km.
AJL 6 '93 14:06                                                            PAGE.006



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:08                                                                p. 07
Provision of forest guard service with
fire-exnguishing and transport means.
The need of fire-extiguishing mewns is shown in the part 4 of the Annex 3.
Beside equipping fire-fighting services with  ansport the project also
presupposes equipping fores guards with transport means for agitation works,
patrolling and fire safety rules' observation (part 10 of the Annex 3).
Aircaft forest protection
Thc timely and accuratc, detection of forest fires, high quality and
quicnss of the infonaon transmison should rationally ogame Src-
extinguishing by the means of the local anti-trc fores protection groups
(both surface and aicraft).
On the basis of fire mte (2.1 forest-fims per day) and functions and
duties of the aircraft service thc number of the aircraft ncessary for aircraft
control in the RCZ was defned (12 helicopters and 4 aierplanes, including 3
airplanes equipped with water-sprinkling tanks, arc to be rented). Airbomc
firemcn and their instructors are to be hired to quickly exinguish forest fires.
Construction of 255 helicopter landn sites and otlier anti-fire forcst-
L                 protection measures in the RCZ are planned.
Scientific and project grounds and provision
for forest-protection works.
The project presupposes working-out the RCZ forest-fir extinguishing
technologies which deal with the forest fircs proper and underground fires),
distance fire-extinguishing technoloeies and a new strategic plan of anti-fire
measures in Belarus forests considering radioactive contamination of a part of
forests.
To achieve this, taking into cosideration the Tealfirc darger class in
Belarus equal to 2.1, it is planned to create about 520 anti-fire 300+ m'
capable water rescrvoirs, 400 ways to natumral water reservoiTs and 320 water
wells
:1
3      ~~JUL  6 '93  14:07                                                           PAGE.067



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:09                                            ROB
Annex 1
DISTRIUON OF THE STATE FORIS FUND
INTO SOIL CATEGORIES AND DEGREES OF
RADIONUCLIDE CONTAMINAMION
JUJL 6 '93 14:07                                           PPGE. 



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:09                                                           P.09
Table 1
Charactedstics   Brest  Vitcbsk  Gomrl Grodno  Minsk  Mogilev  Total
oblast  oblast  obla   oblast  oblast *dlasZ
tb- ha   %
1          2      3       4       5       6        7              98  9
Total area of the
radionuclide-
conanated
fo    fund
12nds, thL ha
Contamination
Caries per Ion2
1-5       94.0   1.8      753.3  70.5    82.4   247.4    1249.4 71.4
5-15      10.3   -        198.7  --       3.5    99.4      311.9  17.8
15-40      0.1    -       93.7    -        -      54A       148.2  8.5
40 and<     -      -       18.8                    20.8     39.6   2.3
Total      104.4  1.8      1064.5  70.5    85.9   422.0    1749.1  100.0
Soil types,
including fores
soils, th. ha
Contaminauion,
Cudcs per kin'
1-5            84.8   1.7      699.8   67.0    78.0   234.6    1165.9
5-15            9.3    -       184.6  --        3.3    94.2     291.4
15-40           0.1    -       *87.0   --      -       51.6     138.7
40 and <        --     -       17.5   --        -      19.7     37.2
Total           94.2   1.7     988.9   67.0    81.3   400.1    1633.2 93.4
Forest covcred
lands
Con.t a m i naton ,
CUXies p= kI
1-5             81.6   1.6     670.4  62.3    74.9   225.9    1116.7
5-15            8.9    --       176.8  --       3.2    90.7     279.6
15-40           0.1    -       83.3   --        --     49.7     133.1
40 and <        -       -       16.8                   19.0      35.8
Total           90.6   1.6     947.3  62.3    78.1   385.3    1565.2
Not forest-
covered lands
Luiies per km3
1-5             1.8    --      10.0   0.7       1.3    3.5       17.3
5-15            0.2            2.6    --        0.1    1.4      4.3
15-40           -      --      1.2    --        -      0.8      2.0
40 and <            -          0.2    --        --     0.3       0.5
Tot      _      2.0      6      14.D   0.7      1A     6.0       24.1
JU- 6 '933 14:07                                                         P~E 0



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:09                                                                P. IU
1           2       3       4        S        6        7       8       9
Not fores lands
Contumination,
Curies per km'
1-5              9.2    0.1      53.5    3.5      4.4      12.8     83.5
5-15             1.0    --       14.1    --       0.2     5.2       2.5
15-40            --     --       6.7     --       -       2.8       9.5
40 and <         -       --      1.3      --       --      1.1       2.4
Total            10.2   0.1      75.6    3.5       4.6     21.9      115.9  6.6
Not forest
lands, including
amablc lands,
Contanination,
1-5              0.3    --       1.6     0.1      0.1    0.4        2.5
5-15             -       -        .4     --       --      0.2       0.6
15-40            --     --       0.2     --       --      0.1       0.3
40 and<          -               -       --        --     --
Total            0.3    --       2.2     0.1       0.1     0.7      3.4    6.6
Hayfields,
Contaminain,
Curie per krnl
1-5              1.0    --       6.0     0.4      0.5     1.4       9.3
5-15             0.1    --       1.6     --        -      0.6       2.3
15-40           --      -        0.7     -        --      0.3       1.0
40andC           --      -       0.1      --       -       0.1      0.2
Total            1.1             8.4     0.4       0.5    2.4       12.8
JUL  6 '9~3 14:08                                                            PAGE. 010



Auillcx 2
Dynamics of lorest tires on radlocontaminated teritories
Oblast              Indica-                                             Yews
foresry Assassialians       tors    1980   1 981   1982  1983   1984 1 1985  1955 '1987   198B  1989  1990  1991  1992
)                   Bredt                  1      30      52     29    59      94  1 25      38    21      33      44    44    29    110
II    0.31   0.48   0.35   0.82   0.98 I 0.20   0.38   0.23   0.95   0.43  052  0.17  7.3B
Vitebsk                I                                                                  -
Gomnl                  I      164    603    419   1220   1143   226    531   221    343    440   4B2   319   1390
II    0.22   0.58   0.11   0.42   1.12   0.26   2.28   0,14   0.29   0.24   0.18  0.20   1.99
Grodno        _                7      17     15    27       28     12     25     8      13     10    25    10    47
_I    0.16   0.42   0.12   0.51   0.68   0.48   0.33   0.23   0.53   0.35   0.55  0.42  2.32
Minsk                  I       6     28      13    52      57     14     32      a     23     22    29    17    10  I
II    0.10   0.50   0.25   0.62   1.48   0.23   1.17   0.25   0.60   0.93   033  0.22  2.30
Mogilev                 1      21    154   *38    188    341    100    103    34    132    112   123   120   645
!I    0.14   0.18   0.09   0.21   0.65   0.14   0.23   0.05   0.3D   0.24   0.40  0.17   1.52
Total                 I      228    852    513   1548   1651   417   729   292    544    628   883   495  2299
..    0.22   0.48   0.12   0.42   1.02   0.23   1.78   0.14   0.35   0.28   0.27  0.20  2.14
I - Jt of ires
F                                                       11 - average lIre - affected lerdtory. In hectares
(0 
CD
=
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rXl



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:10                                   P.12
Anmcx 3
TME MAN WAYS OF DEVELOPMENT
Ih TEE FIELD OF FM1E PROTECMION IN
RADIOCONTAMINATED ZONES
i
3I
JLL 6 '53 14089                                  PPAGE.012



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:10                                                                       P.13
See the title on the previous page
0    AcuvEesS                 Unit  Nomas  Actual   %           In       Cost
on° he   available  pmject
1.01.93I
_    .                    . .                     _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl1. rub  th. USI)
1              2               3                         a S      7                   - 9
1. Frm Prwvention
measures
1   Organizatlon of pemnanent         50       .0                 S0      786         3
exhibtlons                 __                           .__ _            _-
2  _itation stands                    320      45        11       285      3121       11
3   Aqitafion stands          _      45830   13820       30      45830    175649      586
4   Aitaton stands     _             12180    1210       10      12180    226731      756
5   Organizing special paces for     10490    9o0        9       9510     72894      243
rest and smokin__
6   OrganIzing mass recreation        200                0        200      11957      40
activiUes
7   Organizing places fornours        950     940        99       10        77
recreation
a   Arangement of oservation           3        -        0         3        99         -
towers & sites             ____.
9   Installation of road-blocking    5200     740        14      4460      17586      59
bars                                             _
10  installation of road si nes      2460      40        2       2420      3449       12
11  ArAmngement of pardng sites       500     200        40       300     46976      157
12  Arrangement of fires sites       5200     430        8       4770     15870       52
(campfires)
13 Aaton                                       _  ___                      1466   5
_   Tatal                                                                 579461  i    4
IL Fire-possibility
limiting measurer
I   Arrangement of fire-      km    1400      200        14      1200    117607  * 392
prevention breaks
2   Cleaning the fire-prevention   km  -      200        -        200       307        1
breaks                                  _         _______
-t              3   Arrangementoffireresisting  KcM    480      -         0        480     146117     487
openings                  -      -    I         I         I       I          I
4   Anangement of mineralized   km| 320000   16100       5      320000   134553      449
strips                    -      -                           -
5   Maintenance of mineralised   km  1640000   33900     5      640000   124743      416
Total                     -                                           523327    1745
JUL  6 '93  14: 18                                                                  PAW 6013



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:10                                                                    P.14
1             2               3     4        5 s               7         8         9
111. Organization of fire-
detecfion systems
I  Observatlon from fire towers     450     290       64       450                 -
and masts                 _
2   Pamrols                  krn   10000                      100W0
pets  040                        840
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ One'  I  _ __         ___       _
.     =. Total                  _        _2....  .2..........   L.   __
IV. Organization of
fire-extfnguishing
units
I   Complecance of basic fire-   _   3       3        100       3      234900     783
edinguishing and chemical
sysems                                                           _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
2   Complectance of rire-           30       30       100       30    1014000    3380
extinguishing and chemical
_  systers
3   Compleclanca and                63       63       100      63      308700    1029
reorganization ofr ire-
extanguishing chemical
systems
4   Osganizaton ofnewfirs-           16      3         19       13    1224000    40B2
exinguishing chenical
_  systems (basic)
5   Organization of new fire-       33       30       91        3      130500     435
extinguishing chemical
a   Organization of new flir-       149      63       42       86      619200    2064
exdinguishing chemical
_ _ systems__ _ _ _                               _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
7   Filrng up stuff vacancies in    116     288       248      116    498800    1663
fir-prevention                   -
8   Oganization of fire             830      _         0       830    1992000    6640
prevenUon inspections under
workshops                      ____ ____         ____
9   Supply of fire-otinguishing   peas   198                          2236102    7454
systems personnel         onel 
Total                                                             8258802   27530
V. Organization of
efficient fire-
prevention
communication
I  Constfuction of telephone    km    200              0       200     23623       79
lines
1               2    Purchasing newtelephones   =    570  I   -  _        O    570      5062     t17
3   Purchasing electric             650                0       650      7696       26
magaphones
JIL  6 '93  14:09                                                                PGE.014



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:11                                                                          P.15
4   PuMchasin radlostatlons        .                                                   -
fid      _                         390      3001      77                24509       82
movable                           810      290        28       580     125326      418
_ POortable           =           3200      so        3       3120    221645       739
charged devices                   020                 0        620       7341       25
accamulator bateres               100       -         0        100      1184        4
s   Purchasing binoculars              450                 0       450       3995       14
a   Purhasing TV syStem                150       3         2       157      385718    1286
devices
7   Salaries of radlooperators    pas    50                0        50so    53165       177
onel
8   organizatIon of technical  #        7                  0        7       20409       68
mnintenance groups         pers   28                  0        28       38712      123
onel
Total                           _                               .       9163B6    3058
VM. Increase of forest
protection personnel
i   Fores foremen                       N 830  700        84       130      136224     454
2   Forster                         1 4600    3900        85       700      37429       125
3   Part-ime fire watchmen             --                          800      392167     1307
=Total                                                                    565820  1 1886
VIl. Construction of
fire prevention
installations
1   Building fire-prevention  1km      260                 0       200    1281150    4271
roads                                                 _       _                    6
-                2   Maintenance of fire-        km    4000       430        4       3750    195458      652
prevention roads
3   Azmngement offire          #       810     220        27       590      64605      216
. .preventon reservations        _
4   Consatction of mads leading  #     4o       30         7       400      109,50      37
to natural water reservations   -  -2       -        -                              -00
5   Construcons of wells       #       320                 0       320       7008       24
_  Construtions of pipelines    9      350                 0       350      114975     383
Total                       -      *                            e      1874146    5583
a                 r     I. Cvionstruction of
production workshops
I   Constructing of workshops    #     200       -         0       200    1269326    4231
for flre-lnguishing sstem  1
2   Constructing of wortshops   |      120       -         0       120      45720       153
IIfor fire-exinguishing systmI  rnl    
Total                     1                           o                1315046 |  4384
JUL  6 '93  14:09                                                                     P  GE 015



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:11                                                                       P.16
1         ~~~~2 1-3  14   1   5                      67B9
IX. Constructions of
fire-towers
I   Constructlon Ofiretowe As   |      160               0         160  |  75040  | 251
.Prchasingo    en
1   Specialized cars          #      240      170        71       70      250 000    930
2   Motorbikes:
heavy-weight                     200      170       55        30      9 590       32
average                          320      190       59       130      20 010      67
right                            3200      l 810    25       2390    240 530     800
3   Matortzed bicydes                1380      60        5       1320     74237      248
4   ______                            920     240        26       680      11276      38
5   Launches and molorboats            5       I         20        4       7 199      24
6   Homes                     hea   2300    1430         82       870     12 576      43
TO                                                   =                  655718    2182
XI.Scientlfic research
and project work
I   Projestand reserch work   I                      _____T               24000       80
2   ScienriWic and technical                     _                        40 000     134
maintenances
=Total                                                                  6     4 000     214
Total in suiface protection        '14627746  48 757
XIL Air protection
development
:  . -                                              I'*g    
1   Rental of helicopters             t 12     12       100       12                  _
__  Rental of anes                     4        1        25        4                  -
2   Flight hous:              hour
helicopters                      5040    5640      100       5640   253 800    846
planes                     _    1420    700         49       1420    78 200     261
3   Arrangement of pernanent   #      12      12        100        12
landing grounds
4   Arrangement of temparaiy         255       -         0        255     13 961     47
landinQ grounds                   -
5   Construction of storehouses       7        2        29         5       16 950    57
fortransport and equipment
6   AddItional supply of transport  of    7    -        -          7       20146   '67
and equipment for the     grou
airbome fire prevention   ps
gxups_                              _
JLL  6 '93  14:10                                                                     .016



JUL-06-93 TUE 13:12                                                                   P.17
7   Supply and salaries to air                                          762       83
protecdon personnel
_  Tatai                   .      .   _          '                 407819   130
-Total cost of pmet                                              15035565  50118
.4
JLL  6 '93  14:10                                                               PiGE.017



JUII  I '93 16:_3  FF011M CIFFC                T ) I O344'.P    6A ^W
Appendix D
Project for Creating an Automated System of .Norest 'Fires
Detection
EXPrAfLATROY NOTE
The propoaed paper describes a f=agent of an experimental autc-
mated Bystem of detecting forest f1 "  in t:h R*publie of  Boleo  .
The work is based on experimental data conc*rning the Initial
stage of development of fires in  oresta and peat bogs obtained in
the f?ir ProteotCiOn Department and thie Kinistry ut P    trx  0 re
Republic of Belarus. These data satow that the overwhealming mjorit:y
of firns in the Republic occur in conifero     forests and initially
these fires are lowvblanketing the berrain in the area of fire in
smoke with n  appreciabla change of tempeutiwc above tho forest. Au
the tire extends, ib can move upwards causing aU increase of tempe-
rature over the foroCt edge. Because moat fires unfold in this wa7,
primazy inpo'tance is attiacAd to optical methods of fire detection
by the smoke plume. At the same tLmv an ugent problem is to design
a technique of deteeting the smoke plume by a variation of the spec-
tral compouition of dtrUJed light, p3t ioulurly ia Lbs Lintmurnd  re-
and bEs proved to be satisfactorily effeative.The uin drawback of
the existing aystem i5 its limited surveillance zonet larzge errors of
-locating the :ire and tfto impoesibility of being incorporLted into
larger automated SzyteuB.In addition, such a system r-eiqrres t;s on-
ploymuent of great numbers ot attending personnel for the supervision
of large forest aress.
wic'yioeI-de0s; vIU z.su     sntP3 SM wiz:M Es. eL AMWso-eT



IFFC            ~~~~TO 14044~956-"
JUN  I 93 16: _S  FROM ClFFC                       1     -
-2.-
To eliminate l;he sald drawbacka and to improve the eCrectiveness
of the system within the framework ot the proposed project, it .a
plannrod to iodern7iso the ainel.-point oyetem b7 transtoirming it into
a closed milti-point networic(at tho initia stage it may be limited
to tIire@ ooints in order to save the resources ) with a single ob.
sorvation pout ( OF ) designed to control and monitor the entire Sys.
tem.¶Dhe central pos ( CY ) receiving television information  frou
every obsarvation post will exercise visual sur'aillance of the ter-
rain with the aid of television monitors installed threirn.To this
oad, the oentil post has :liz' capability ot automat.cally controlling
each television camara on eommaoda from an irorsation-und-control
omputer; the computtr is desiRped both to control the system and to
store the database of tbo peculiarities or an ura, the map of the
area and other data whose list is to be ugreed upon with the system
us 'r C the forestry and ri   prpteoetion service ) in tbh  process cr
Vnea, artez having fetched the monitored area map out of the detabase,
find the best route for the movement of fire engines to the islazd Of
fire, specify the required fire fighting means, etc.
Tbe projeoct provides for the development and refineexnt of the
above-mentioned apectral method c: automatic soaks detection which
will mLke the use of bhe system aignificantly simplsr,, because it
will not require the taw1aiz to be constantly visually monitored by
the operator.In this case the operator Will step in after the amoke
has been detected snd Ze will u3e the aystes 'to idaks a decision depen-
ing an the situation.



JUN  I '93 16:30  FROM 'IFFC                   Tti 14034J95626      PA13E.033,/36
-3-
All the work is planned to be accoplished vithin two years,
with ts main tests of bhe gystem scheduled  ot te Summor of 19911.
Later on the system can be built up depending on the  requirements of
the forentry and tire protection service 9 with the performance of
the rs't experimental rorve.  bloc)c taken Into ac;cuntr
The survillance equipment will be installed on type  MMNI - 3M
metal ire-observation masts, with a. height of up to 42 meters abovo
the bw.gQ lsvMP  'I'h* qAmft iuatJ xre suitable tor uioting television
and radio aentenas. To ainiuize noise from TV trnasitters, they can
operate in the dscirebter ranp, and even a communications sattelite
uwita ma bo uJad ror relaying, to provide cover%g for a large ter-
r'itory within the entire Republic.
To improve the  eliability o: detection, -the diatanco between
ttie masta may be reduced  from 30-35 km, as it is Planned now, to
AcL-2n 'via  * 4y, *%in n.s.  q ihy mulmhIir nf OP* served by one U   CP
and *the Cp * in thR tra?0scUn m=gaOUt aStaionq wi±  the inatruents
fed from a stationarT 220V powr line. At the same time , "=der the
project, one of the nsts will mo=t a winid-driven, electric plant,
*  whivh will permit them to be uaed in future, when setting up
the 7sytem in the Choruobyl zoue. The area covered by a surveillance
zone with three OPu wiLL K aOou; 15O  1C3, buv lb ucan 'Uv lsao     exten-
ded by increasing the numberS of OPs,
At the second stase ot the work, after the completion or the
network of observation posts with the copability of transmitting
:3~ ~ ~~~~b:9   SOLa                           "cv..--r_   ':  :f-lC



JUN  L '93 16:'0  FROM CIFFC                   IiJ 1                r         U)
_4-
television e.nd tolemetr±o £orm.tion from the oPe to the central
post and telezontrol sigSnls from he CP to the OPe, the system is
to be aixpiuntod with an infrmsed surv1eilance system  ( pyrometers )
and double-frequency lidar yst em to permit the terrain to be mo-
nitorce  at niiiht. A J;stem of detec6lni ad LoaTing lightnings by'
tlso electromagnetiec pulse in the rauge of 20 to 200 kR  appears to
be ye*ry effoetive, enpuela17 for the Chernobyl zone Located In the
latitudes where thnmderstormS frequentlyr occur in tho mummor time.
Evidentl.y  a comprehonsiTe approach to the problem of forest
fires detection will improve the probability of dntaction, reduce
the number of false alarms nd. lower the probability or mieine
a frIe.
Dectoz Or   6   evla%tSj
Protessor                                    Thany V.Z
SSrtE1 'd    00cg WLTU t.0                     Snc  54sn- :L-,  E6 Sl



Belarus Fire Statistics 1980-1 992
# of Fires and Hectares Burned
Data from Appendix 9 of Republican Fire Plan
of Fires    Hectares Burned
#of f#ires                                                  Hectares burned
8,000  - -   :        -  -   :               -                        .                                 25,000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.: .: ..  .                 :.,: .: .: .  .  .   .     ........  .  .   ..: .  .  .  .   .   ..  .   .  .  .  .
6, 000 + ;. ; ; T . ¢: .. * s. . ; . .... . ~ . .                                                       20,000
6,000
.... ... . .  . . ...   .        ... .  . ...  ; \.. .. .. . ...  . .   ..,... .. . .. .. .. .  . ..  . .
4,000  : ;    :   . :.   /    :   : \   :   . -  :   .      .   : --11 n00
',,~~~~~~~~~~. '.',                                  ".'  "       ' '.'' ' \'".. . .. . . . ..............' "'' "  ''.......   '......  
10,000
#of Fires        305  2,689 1,369 4,190 4,772 1,339 2.371   842  1,690 1 ,886 2,398 1.477 7.444
Year
Fstat1



X   A             *.J.1             |      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P-.I                         .
Belarus Fire Statistics 1980-1992 By Oblast
# of Fires per Million Hectares
Area Burned per 1 Thousand Ha of Forest Cover
|  Fires/MM ha/yr + Ha Burned/i M Ha Forest
600                                       :
400                                                .      _:  ............... 0 4
300                                                    . . . . . . . . . .
200
100 l S   g_|:2:g_0:m:S_S                                                      0.2
00                                      0°                             0
Fires/MM ha/yr             543         448          385         364         264          169
Ha Burned/1M Ha Forest     0.57        0.81        0.26         0.42        0.21        0.33
Rel-obI2



Belarus Fire Statistics 1980-1992
Fires by Oblast compared to Belarus Average
Data from Appendix 9
# of fires
2,500
2,000. ....................
1,500|  .. . . .. . . . --....----/...-..-..........----- --.---.------ -.---- -               .- ...
1,500. . 
80     81      82      83      84      85      86      87      88      89      90      9-i     92
Year
Ob-av



14~~~~~~~~~~~~
01
........... .~~~I
... ...... . ~      ~             ~             ~             (
........   ....... ........                         ........   .............c
.  ...    .....0.
r.. m <ir                                                                                                                                                                                  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
'cc                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00~~~~~~~...   .... .. .
o ~ ~~~~~~~~~~..                                                .. .....                          ..             . ........ ...
O O I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (A~~~~...  ..  ....E
. . .. ............
............ .  ....   ..... .....   ...... .....
.... ... .... . . ..                                                                                                         CD~ ~~~~~~~C
C'q                                               . .      .  ....   ....            .                                                        .       ...........                                         .
LL~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~....  .....   ......         ............. ..
.....   .   .  ..     .   ..   ..   .  .   .....   ..
( L. .. . ..                   I,.  -",.--     - 11. .       . .   . .:. ..       ..       . . .. . .. . ..       ..      . .. ... .
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                                   ..  .........   ... .. . .... ...
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .. ....... . .. ............ 
>o            D.. ............
..        .  .   .    . .  . ..                                                                                                                                    . . .  .
WI~ ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~.......    .....    .......    ...   ..........I........                                                          ......    ...........
o ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-                      :........................    .                                        .. .......                   ........
WI~~~~~~~~~.....  ....                                                                                                                                                                      oc
L5                                                a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                 ..
..                                                               .  . .  . . . .   .              . .  . . .  .  .    .-. .  . . . .  .       .  . . . .  .      .  . .    
a,                      4.........-.. ........ .. .........                                                                            ..........                ..
................ ...~~~
o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0....    ....    ......................
..          .     .  . . .  .     . .  . . . .     . . .             - - - -         .     . . . .  . . .  .   . .                                           .  . . . .
- C         . . . .   .             . . . . .                                            . . .. . ..           . . . . .   . ..   . .     . . . . . .    . . .   . . . . . . .
CO              ID ~~~~~......   ...               ..                                      . .........                  ....           ..J



U             p               a                                                                           : .
Belarus Fire Statistics  Gomel Oblast 1980-1992
Contaminated territory fires compared to total fires
2,5)00               . .. . . .                  . . . . . . . .   .. .. .
2,500     ,   .     . .     . .     . . . . .. . .. . ..  .  .  . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .fo     
2,000
1,000                                ...    .........
500
80   81   82   83   84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92
Gomel total   260  955  663 1,934|1,811 422  842  350  543  697  733  505 2,203
Gomel radio.  164  603  418 1,221,14  226 |531  221  343  440  462  319 11390
|  Gomel total   Gomel radio.
Gomelrd



Belarus Fire Data
Number of fires by type
compared to area covered by type
Underground Fires                      Underground Fires
Crown Fires
.:-37,3%  Crown Fires
81.5%    Surface Fires
.65.5% w   -Surface Fires
Number of Fires                         Area Covered
Data from 'Republican Program'
#vsarea



Belarus Forestry
Age Distribution
U01993
2,500                                                    ZI2003
t 11000-                                                  E lI 2033
6 1500-
1-20   21-40  41-60  61-80   80+
Age Class



Belarus Forestry
Age bistribution
21-40 29%           ~21-40 24%
21-40 29%-X1-0  191-20   10fi1-60 29%                                  -40 19%
80+  6%
800 +   2%   ,    > _                    L    /    ;i20 2%
\  ;: ; W    61-80 10%                                           - 10%
41-60 35%             61-80 25%          ,
41-60 41%                                              61-80 41%
1993                       2003                       2013
41-60 24%                                        41-60 19%
21-40 10%                                21-40 2%
-   1}  1-20 6%      61-80 29%-               1-20 10%
61-80 35%
80+  25%
80+ 41%
2023                                     2033



1992 Belarus Fire Expenses
Maintenance  3%
................ ....  ~~~~1090Rood MaIntenmnes 7%
DeteotianjPraventlon7
Rand Maintenance 11,910
.. Specialized Roads 2.133
Maintenance  5.053                                   vrBdetExpendit. 40%
Ground Stripping 3,880
Flee Bardesta 2,905
Da'actlcn/Preventian 45%
Over Budget Expendit. 69,976
All Costs in Thousands of Rubles
Budget2



