Environmental
Assessment/Analysis          _ _
Reportssetnli
Report E0041
Belarus -
Forestry Sector
Development Project
EA Category A
4 of 5
December 1993
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



Mnistry of the Environment                Intemational
The National Forest and Nature          Waterfowl & Wetlands
Agency                          Research Bureau
Denmark                              IWRB
AN ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW ON FORESTED
WETLANDS
IN THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
Prepared for the World Bank
and the Mnistry of Forestry of the Republic of Belarus
The Naiono Forest and Nature Agency              IWRB
Harddsgade 53                         Slmbridge
DK-2100 Kobenhavn 0                      Gloucester
Denmar                              GL2 7BX
Englad
Deember 1993



Reviewers addrem
Pafle UWd Jepn
7be Ndamil Forest and Naiure Agcncy
Natre and Widlif R ves Section
DK-6840 Oksbel
Dmmaik
Tel: +45 75 27 20 88
Fax: +45 75 27 25 14



Forestry Development Project
Republic of Belanis
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW ON FORESTED WETLANDS
Prepared by International Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Bureau
IWRB for:
The World Bank and the Ministry of Forestry
Republic of Belarus
In cooperation with the Ainustiy of the Envronment
The Naional Forest and Nature Agency, Denmark
Reviewer PaUe Uhid Jepsen
Minisry of the Envirnment
The Naional Forest wad Nature Agency
Denmark



2
L CONTE
2. Acknowledgement
3. Execztive Summar (induding table 1 & 2)
4. IntroductIon 
4.1 Definifion of Forested Wetlands
4.2 General Observations
4.3 Protection of Wildlife
S. Forestry Operations in Wetlands
5.1 Pesticides, Herbicides and Fungicides
5.2 Potected Sites in Forested Land
5.3 Itensified Silviculture Operations
5.3.1 Reclamation and drainage
5.4 Wildlife
6. Important Environmental Lues
6.1 Proposed Intensified Silvitc  Operations
6.1.1 Environmental Impacts of forestry operatons in wedand areas (see
table 1)
6.2 Current Legal and Managenent Regime
6.3 Improving Environmental Leglaton and Cooperation
6.4 Udlisation of Excavated Peatlands
6.5 Wildlife Management
6.5.1 Hunting for Waterbirds
6.5.2 Breeding Habitats for Wildlife
6.5.3 Establishment of Refuges
7. Mitigating Intensified Forestry and Other Land-use
7.1 Intensified Silviculture
7.2 Conservation of Excavated Pcatlands
7.3 Wldlife



3
8. Forestry Planning and Management
8.0. I A National Wetland Inventory
8.0.2 Appointment of a Management Authority
8.0.3 Dcvlopmnent of Management Plans
8.0.4 Loaxl Action
8.0.5 National Action
8.0.6 Intmnational Action
8.1 Social Impacts of the Project
8.2 Recommendations (see table 2)
9. Monitoring
10. TraIng and Wardening
10.1 Implementing Taining Progmmmes
10.2 Building Community Participation and Awareness
10.3 Funding and Assistance
I Documentation
II Consultees list
III Terms of rferences
IV Arrangements for crossings
V Itinerry
VI Acxinyms



4
2. ACKNOWLEDGEMET
The Environmental Review mission was carried out in November 1993 by Palle Uhd Jepsen,
Senior Conservation Office, Ministry of the Ezironment, the Nafional Forest and Nature
Agency, Denmark as consultant for the nttmational Waterfowl and Wedand Research
Bureau, Slimbridge. UKL The Mision was coordinated by Crawford Prntice, Programme
Manager, IWRB, who also provided input to this reporL The mission was funded by the
hMinsty of the Envinmnent, the Nafional Environmental Protection Agency, Denmark.
The task of the mission was to review the potential environmental impacts on forested
wedands of the proposed Forestry Development Project in the Republic of Belarus.
The conclusions and recommendations of the reviw are based upon:
1. Documnts provided by the World Bank (listed in Annex 1).
2. Consultons with officials from the Commitee for Ecology, Academy of Scicnce, the
Ministry of Forestry of Belarus including field staff of the Forest Enterprses of Volozhin and
Smolevichi, fte Ministry of Education, and the Director and field staff of the 3erezinsky
Biosphere Reserve; and a repemtative of BeLarussin Society of Hunters and Fishermen (see
Annex II for ful list of consultees).
The Reviewer wishes to thank the consulted representatives (see Annex O1) for their
hospitality and fruitful and open discussions. Special thanks are addressed to Mr. Anatoly
M. Dorofeev, Chairman of the State Committee for Ecology of the Republic of Belars for
excUlent suppo  Dr. Yuriy A. Vyazovich, IWRB National Delegate, Academy of Science
for the organisaion of the mission, Mr. Mkhafl V. Kuzxnenov, Head of Department,
Ministry of Forestry for cooperation and organisation of field trips to the Forest Enterprises:
Volozhin and Smolevichi, Mr. Vladimir K Gonchar, Director of the Berezinsky Biosphere
Nature Rese  and his staff for an impressive introduction to the reserve, Mrs. Teresa and
Mr. Leonard Jurevich for their great hospitality and enjoyable moments, and to Mr. Vladimir
Andriyanov for excellent transaton assistance during the Review.



S
It was the Reviewers intention to meet more representatives from Non Governmental
Organisations, but it was not possible to arrange consultations.



6
3. EECVE SUARY
1. At the request of the Govemment of Belarus, the World Bank and the Ministry of Forestry
have devcloped a draft Forestry Development ProjecL
2. As an integrated part of the proposed Forestry Deve3opnent Project, the Government of
Bdarms, in conjunction with the World Bank, are prqparirg an Environmental Review (ER).
Ihe ER consists of an ovell environmental revicw of the investment element of the
proposed project, and a specific review of the wetland-forestry issues to be carried out in line
with the oveall revw. This dokument reports on the wetland-forestry ER.
3. This report has been prepared for the Ministry of Forestry and the World Bank under the
aegis of the Intenational Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Bureau (IWRB), in coopeon
with the Danish Ministry of the Environment.
4. The wetland-forestry ER has been prepared in line with the Environmental Review
requirements of the Republic of Belarus and the provisions of World Bank Operational
Directive, 4.01, "Environmental Assessment.' The World Bank has provided the reviewer
with relvant documents (Annex 1) and Terms of Reference for the Wedand Forestry
Environmental Review (Annex III).
S. The wetand-forestry ER was carried out during the period November 8-15, 1993. The
review mission took the form of a combination of meetings, consultations and field trips to
forest districts and fte Berezinsky Biosphere Reserve (see itinerary, Annex V).
6. The main objectives of the wetland-forestry ER are to review the potential environmental
impact on wooded wetlands rmsulting fom the introduction of a light-mechanized labor
intensive harvest and thiinng system, and the expansion of the Ministry of Forestry's
equipment pool; and the proposed use of intensified ilviculture management techniques on
immatur forestry resources. Major areas of impacts considered under the ER are:
* groundwater;
0 wildlife habitats;



7
* biodiversity;
* sustainable harvesting and regeneration; and
* review of wetlands conservation area.
7. The report reviews (i) the definition of forested wedands; CiH) the present protecion of
wooded wetland habitats including considerations of specified wildlife and forestry opeations;
(Mii) environmental impacts of forestry management ope2ations; (iv) mnitigating measurs; (v)
foestry planning and monitming, and training. Adverse environmental impacts and proposed
mitigating measures are summaized in table 1.
8. The wetland-forestry ER report also presents a number of recommendations (summarized
in table 2), mainly stressing the need for a comprehensive planning and management
procedure on forested wetlands including buf.er zones and ecological conridors. The lack of
environmental planning regulations and enforcement of environmental legislation are the main
reasons for the present uncontrolled utilization of certain wetand habitats such as peadands.
It is necessary to strengthen institutional structes and define exact areas of respnsbiity
onr all levels of organisation. Further, mechanisms should be developed for the participation
of local communities and environmental NGO's in thc planning and decision-maldng
processes in order to increase awarcness regarding protection of the environment.
9. Potential positive impacts of well managed foresty in wooded wetlands and in the adjacent
buffer zone can improve wildlife habitats and biodiversity in general by maintaining natual
cor.ditions, and careful thinning of immatuze stands.
10. It is recommended that a monitoring programme on forested wetlands should be
developed. This programme should be integrated wifth the proposed weland inventory,
prepared by the Aeademy of Science and IWRB. A monitoring programme is required as an
element in the planning process in order to define management options and 'limits of
acocptable change. The concept can be used tD identify and set limits within which change
may be tolerated. It may be applied to the operational objectives considered in a management
plan.



Table 1. Summary of potental Impads on foretsd wtmnds and propoed mItItg measrm
Area/issues                            Mitigatirig measures                    R=Qakgibllltv            Text  ref.
1. MIEaning and logging                                                                                 6.1 p. 26
a) Disturbance of understory and sensitive   0 accomplish logging, thinning and  MinPor                 7.1 p. 32-33
vegetation by soil erosion.            transportation on frozen soil.
Transportation of logs may cause rutting  * avoid logging in the riparian zoi,e in  MinFor
and compaction.                        rainy periods, and protect slopes fmm
skidding.
X use low Impact equipment and avoid   MinFor
skidding and caterpillar tractors.
* protect natural steams In the wetland and  MinFor
in the riparian zone by introduction of    State Committee
arrangements for crossings (see Annex    for Ecology
IV).
* choose dry sites for stacidng logs.  MinFor or contractors
e make sure that all operators are familiar   MinFor
with contingency plans.
b) Increase in temperature and post-   * avoid clearcutting, but implement     MinFor
clearculling soil compaction, reduced  selective and phased felling of mature
water holding capacity and run-off.    trees.
* implement low intensity thinning, and  MinFor
remove thiinid material from the
welland.
c) Pollution from oil-spill and        * make sure that working rmads are      MinFor
contaminating material for             constructed well clear of riparian zones
roadconstruction.                      and avoid road construction near
wetlands and streams.
* avoid metaWliferous or sulphide rich  MinFor
material for road construction.



* maintain wetlands and stream buffer    MinFor
areas in as natural a condition as    State Committee
possible.                             for Ecology
* prepare return fuel storage facilidies and    MinFor or
refuel and maintain machinery well away  contractors
from streams and waterlogged soil, and
avoid spillage of oil and lubricants.
* choose dry sites for stacking logs.
2. Wildllfe habitats                                                                                        6.5 p. 30-31
d) Disruption and degradation of habitats    * assess the wildlife assets before  Academy of Science           7.3 p. 34
by loss of cover and tree species upon   harvesting is implementbd.
which wildlife depend.                * leave dead trea and cavities as potential   MinFor
Wildlife species and distribution may   breeding places for certain wildlife   Academy of Science
change by decreasing number of           species.
breeding pairs, food resources and    * improve natural regeneration of        MinFor
conditions for migrants.                broadleaved tms In the riparian zone.
Fish populations may also decrease due   * avoid destmction of beaver dams.    MinFor or
to possible eutrophication, changes in                                         contractors
stream-flow, temperature and discharge                                         MinFor
of contaminants.                                                               Academy of Science
e) Disturbance of wildlife during foresty    reduce human impact caused by        MinFor
operations and by improved public       disturbance, and ensure waterbirds and
access to the area concemed.            other wildlife with access to available
food resources.
* avoid spring hunting in wetlands and   MinFor
adjacent buffers of minimum 300 m
width.
* improve wardening.                     MinFor



3. Blodiversity                                                                                           6.4 p. 29
f) Change In soil conditions and light  0 ensure natural regeneration of weland  MinFor                   7.2 p. 33
regime may Influence regeneration       forets including riparian zones.       Academy of Science
dynamics of natural plant communities    * avoid introiuction of alien tree species.    MinPor
and changes in wildlife by decreasing  * manage and maintain the riparian zone as  MinPor
the number of breeding and migrating    an integrted part of the aquatic       Ministry of
species.                                environment, and avoid discharge of   Agriculture
harmful contaminants to the catchment    The Chemical
watercourses.                        Industries
0 maintain open or wooded conditions    MinFor
depending on the natural character of the  Academy of Science
.    habitat and management goal.
* establish special management areas and    Academy of Science
zones covering wetlands, ecotones and    State Committee for
.   ecological corridors.                  Ecology
MinFor
g) Fish populations may also decrease due    , close drainage systems whenever possible
to possible changes in stream-flow,     and restore natural conditions.        Academy of Science
temperature, and discharge of          conserve remaining naturl wetlands such
contaminants.                           as peatlands, undisturbed streams and
floodplains as well as wetland forests
considered important for improving
diversity.                            MinFor
* assist as far as possible natural     Ministry of Agriculture
regeneration of former peat-mined areas.  State Committee
* develop an adequate planning and      for Ecology
monitoring system.                    MinFor



4. Dra.age                                                                                                  7.2 p. 33
1jdmaa impa
h) Dramatic change in the hydrological   * resloration and creation of wetlands in  MinFor
regime by lowering the groundwater       former peat-mined areas 3hould have   Academy of Science
table, soil erosion, oxidation of peat-  high priority.
layers.                               * close old drainage systems whenever    Ministry of
possible,                             Agriculture
2. Secondaay impact
i) Impoverishment of biodiversity by     * consider natural regeneration in riparian    MinFor
reducing natural plant communities and   zones adjacent to open water and
degradation of wildlife habitats may     streams.
destroy breeding possibilities for certain   * if afforestation is considered, avoid alien   MinFor
endangered or rare species. Discharge   tree species and conifers in riparian  Academy of Science
of ochre and nutrients into downstream   zones in order to enhance wildlife
watercourses which may cause fish        habitats and improve the sceric value.
disease and eutrophication.             avoid canalization of natural streams.
* avoid diverting drains to adjacent streams  MinFor, Ministry of Agriculture
and establish silt-traps at the ends of  MinFor, Ministry of Agriculture
drains in areas of erosion risk.
* maintain drainage systems properly by  MinFor, Ministry of Agriculture,
removal of silt from silt-traps, and make  contractors
sure that the drainage system is
accessible to light machinery.
* silt removed from silt-traps or from   MinPor and
ditches should not be dumped in       contractors
wetlands or other ecologically valuable
sareas, e.g. riparian zones.



J) Increasing fife hazard. Deterioration of   * establish rfu breaks bordered by  Minpor
river and stream water quality below    broadleaved native troe species.
drainage projects.                    * establish static water pools and depots for  MinFor
fire combating equipment, including fire
beaters.
* establish structures for rapid rue    MinFor
detection and response, communication
equipment, etc.
5. Use or chemicals and                                                                                    7.1 p. 32
fertilizer.
k) Use of pesticides and herbicides and  * avoid use of stdcides, fungicides,     MinFor
other hazardous chemicals may           herbicides and other hazardous
contaminate soil, ground and surface    chemicals in wetlands including streams.  MinFor
water and cause degradation of natural    * the precautionary principle should also
plant communities, insect life and      apply in riparian zones, at least in
decrease the populations of insectivorous    waterlogged areas.
wildlife. Pollution of water is likely to    * in and around forested wetlands, streams   MinFor
occur and degrade aquatic vegetation    and floodplains chemicals should only be
and water resources for domestic use.   applied if they are approved for use in
Toxic chemicals pass through the food   these areas.
chain and have severe impacts on      * avoid spraying over watercourses,      MinFor, Ministry of Agriculture
toplevel carnivores such as herons and  drainage canals and ditches in the
birds of prey.                          catchment.
1) Use of fertilizer in wetlands and streams,  * avoid use of fertilizer in forested  MinFor, Ministry of Agriculture
in the catchment close to watercources  wetlands and in the riparian zone and
and in areas with a high groundwater    close to streams in the catchment.
table is known to have a serious      * make sure that operators are instructed in   MinPor and
negative impact on natural conditions   safe use of hazardous chemicals.       contractors
and water resources for domestic use.



* store chemicals safely and securely and    Minlor or
make sure that all empty containers are   contractors
removed from the area.
6. PlannIng, monitoring and                                                                        6.2 p. 28, 6.3 p. 29
training.                                                                                             8. p. 35-37
m) Inadequate and weak law enforcement,   * establish an Agency under the State  New legislation         9. p. 38-39
lack of coordination between responsible    Committee for Ecology to coordinate
Institutions and departments may        cross-sectoral responsibilities on
seriously minimise the possibilities of  conservation and management of natural
developing effective planning and       resources.
decision-making processes, control of    * assess the present general "Law on  State Committee for Ecology
forestry operations and immediate       Environmental Protection' and planned    MinFor
actions to mitigate adverse            legislation conceming forestry and the    Intemational assistance
environmental impacts.                  environment for further clarificalion.
* develop management plans for forested  New legislation?
wetlands including mapping of features    MinFor
of ecological interest and            State Committee for Ecology
environmenjally sensitive areas.     International assistance
* implement international standards and  State Committee
guidelines fpr management planning.   for Ecology
n) Lack of community participation in   * make arrangfments ensuring participation   Academy of Sience     10. p. 40-41
conserving and managing "their'         of biological, ecological and         District Authorities
wetlands may, in longer term, decrease  hydrological expertise in the planning  Intemnational assistance
environmental awarcness.                process.
* promote and, strengthen local participation  Academy of Science
and environ*ental awareness.          International assistance



* incorporate local environmentalists and  Academy of Science
concerned NGO's in monitoring         International assistance
programmes.
* arrange local public lectures and     MinPor
symposia on the main environmental    Academy of Science
issues with focus on conservalion of  District Authoriies
wildlife, wetlands and other ecologically
important areas.
* improve environmental education and   MinFor
training of forest personnel, managers  Academy of Science
and scientists in conservation, the use of International assistance
management plans, monitoring and
wardening.
* develop training programmes in        MinFor
cooperution with intematlonal         Academy of Science
organ.ations.                        International assistance



RECOM     NDATIONS                                            Table 211
L Mondt.uing
The proposed intensified forestry operations in wooded wetlands accentuate the
requiremnt of an inventory of ecologicafly important wedands and thiar values, in
particular vildlife.
The Republic of Belarus has identified several inermationally important wedands for
waterbirds, and a wetland inventory is under preparation.
It is recommended ta the preparation of a wetland inventory programme should be
supported tirough intenaonal funding and technical assistance.
The programme should be expanded in order to include (i) national as weU as (ii)
intemaonal important wetlands. The programme should focus on:
- identification of (i) and (ii);
- inclusion of forested wetands;
- habitats and wildlife;
- estabElishing an   ional framework;
- data storage; and
- data processing.
2. Mmgemeg__
Under the wetlands-forestry ER mission it was recognised that there is a need for
efficient managment planning procedures in relation to forested wetlands and other
ecologically imporant sites.
It is recomnmended that a procedure for management planning should be established
based on international standards and guidelines. A coordinating Agency under thc State
Commiuttee for Ecology should develop such a planning instrument and seek
interational assistance.
The guidelines for management planning for Ramsar sites and other wetlands, which
has been devdoped under the Raimsar Convention, should be used as a basis for the
developmcnt of such a system.
Managemnent plans for forested wetlands should set clear objectives for the sustainable
use of living resources and habitats.
The Berezinsky study proposal, produced by The Academy of Science, would provide
the information necessary for the development of a management plan for the EI'sphere
Resev, -as wel as recommendations for magement



Table 21
3. EUaNEs apedal ceaservaion aw
Under the wedands-forestry ER the needs for special conseraion areas has been
demonstated. The rquirements for the establishment of conservation areas are reated
to forested wedands, floodplains and peatands including associated ripian ad
tansitio  zoes.
The designation of conserwation areas covering the above mentioned habitats could be a
ul mitgaion measure in relation to implening intnsified silviculture.
It is recommend   that the needs for designation of conservation areas should be
assmed in eation to foesed wetands, etc., in Belams as an integrAt  dement of a
wedand inventory programme.
It is fther recommended that spial conservation areas should be established in
forested wetands, and that intenational assistance should be included dunng the
invetory and implementaton of such a plan.
The prepaatory studies to identify special consemvation areas should focus on:
- vulneability;
- importance for wildlife intenadonallnatonal; and
- the sizr of the areas and their accessibility;
4. Wxaau?g
The ER mission recognised the needs for strengthening control and wandening of
foresy and mining operations and the requirements of coordinaton procedures
betwe   Forest Enterprise, contractrs and institutes responsble for nature
monvamon. Mhe lack of crition  is also addressed by recommendation 2.
it is rerommended that institutional organisation should be stegthened with one
singd Agency responsible for nature conservaon, monitoring and wardening. Tbe
adequate wardening of protected areas requires the following standards:
- head wardens should be employed on a fiull time basis;
- wardens should be issued with sufficient authority, and:
ensur that site management actions are undertaken;
* maintain contact with local authorties and people; and
w disseminate informafion to the general public.
The responsible Agency should implement a wardening progamme on a national basis
and ensure that adequate finance, personnel, equipment and traning are available.
With intemational assistance and funding a training programme for wardens should be
developed mcluding the organisation of an intenational workshop.



Table 2/3
5. Peatards Semr
Ibe wetlands-forestry ER mission recognised the requirements of adequate conservaion
and management of natural peatlands and careful restoration of degraded peat areas in
Belarus.
It is recommended that the State Committee for Ecology and the Academy of Scienc
should organse an international Peatlands Seminar in cooperation with relevant
intenat    risios focusing on:
a) Peadands, as worldwide assets;
b) Bdarssian peadands and their uilisation;
C) Conseaton and management of onrinal peatlands including their flora and fauna;
d) Restoration of degraded pcatiands;
e) Establishment of natue reseves; a&d
f) AfforestatIn of degraded peatlands.
The seminar should be atded by 20-30 experts from Blarus and foreign countries.
The anrangemnent of the seminar should be funded from international sources.
Table 211-3. Proposed      n nc  from the wolands-forestry
Review mision.



18
4. INTRODUCTION
10. At the request of the Governmcnt of Belarius, the World Bank and the Ministry of
Forestry have deveoped a drft Forestry Development Project including a plan for financial
assistnce to the Republic on both forcstry resouce managemcnt and wood processing
industries.
11. As an integrated part of the proposed Forestry Development Project, an Envirnmental
Review (ER) is to be prepared by two international ecperts, 1) on the investment dements,
and 2) on the potential enviomental impact on wooded wedand habitats.
12. This repot has been prepared for the Government of Belanis and the World Bank by
Pale Uhd Jepsen, Ministry of the Environment, the National Forest and Nature Agency,
Denmark under the aegis of the International Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Bura
(IWRB).
13. The ER has been prepared in line with the Environmental Review requirements of the
Republic of BeLarus and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive, 4.01,
*Environmental Assessment. le ER is by the World Bank considered as a Category B
Projece in accordance with the Operational Directive 4.01. Further the World Bank has
provided the reviewer with rlevant documents (Annex 1) and Terms of Reference for the
Wetland Forestry Environmental Review (Annex II).
14. ITe ER on forested wetlands was carried out during thc period November 8-15, 1993.
The programme for the review was elaborated by Dr. Yuriy Vyazovich, the Academy of
Science, Minsk in cooperation with the Committee for Ecology, the Academy of Science and
the Ministry of Forestry (MinFor). The review mission took the form of a combinaton of
meetings, consultations and field trps to forest districts and the Berezinsky Biosphere Reserve
(see itinerary, Annex V).
15. Unfortunately meedngs with Non Governmental Organisations had not been prepared in
advance, and during the peiod of consultations it was only possible to amange a meeting with
a sepresentative of the Byelorussian Society of Hunters and Fishermen.



19
4.1 Defirtion of Forested Wetlands
16. The forested wedands assodated with the wooded land in Belarus are mainly peatlands
or wooded swamps including fens, bogs and noodplains. Fens are peat-forming freshwater
wedands, ,geraly non-acidic, rich in nutrients, and dominated by luxuriant and peces-rich
vegetation including broadleaved trees such as Alder Ainus glutinga, Birch Betula M. and
Willow 32lix jn. Bogs are acidic and nutrient deficient, and they are formed by decomposi-
tion of oranic material. Mhe peat deposits in bogs, mainly in raised bogs, can oftea reach
a depth of mor than 10 metres, and they represent a valuable commecial fuel resource.
17. The Belarus wetlands lie in the polessie lowland area (in the Brest, Minsk and Gamble
oblasts). This lowland has a total area of 8.8 million ha. or 41% of the total areas of the
Republic. Marshlands and other wetlands cover about 4 million ha. of the Polessie. Forested
wetlands (about 1.6 million ha.) cover 25% of the marshands and other wetlands. Forested
wetlands is also 20% of the total forest lands of the Republic of Belarus. About 2.5 million
ha. of the wedands are in the Pripyat River Basin its tributary systems, and the adjacent
floodplains.l About 26% of the region (2.2 million ha.) is covered by peadlands and peat-
marshy soils, with about 8G-100,000 ha. of the peatlands covered by foresL
18. The wedands forest species mix is dominated by soft broadleaves (Birch, Alder, Poplar
gPuIus z. and willow) and hardwood broadleaves (Oak Ouercus ML, Ash Fraxinus
excelsior Maple     m            and Homnbeam Car inus be    s) 15%, with some
spruce 10%.2 It is the northcr border of oak. This contrasts with tne national average species
mix (soft broadleaves 27%, hard broadleaves 4%, spruce 119% and pine 58%). The wedands
areas are estimated by the World Bank to contain the major concentration of the rlatively
scarce broadleaf species (55 % of total soft broadleaves and 70% of total hard broadleaves.
1 The Pripyat River is the largest tributary af the Dnie-
per River. The Pripyat is 761 km long and its basin area is
121,000 sq.km. It is internationally shared river basin. In
souther and central Belarus 52,700 sq.km. (63%), with the
remainder in northern Ukraine.
2 World Bank indicative estimates in the absence of the
wetlands inventory.



20
4.Z2 Geneal Obsenations
19. The matue  stands of broadleaved  es  in wooded wedands represent a potentially
valuable commrcil resource. Imprved mechaniation under the proposed project may
incae th forestry operations in wetlands and cause irreversible impacts on the wcdands
Cco-stCU
20. Forested wedands are important eemets in the Belarussian wooded landscape. Besides
their potentl valu for foretry, they can provide opportunities for alternative sustanale
uses including berry and mushroom colecting, observation of wildlife, hunting, fishing, and
other activt   Foested wetands are habitats which often consist of flora and fauna, and
some species asociated winth wetlands are rare and endangered (e.g. European beaver Castor
fibM). The forested wetlands and the zone of transition to dry forest types are important
abitats for bird species induding Black Stork Ciconia nigra, Capercaillie Tetio urollus
and Cane Grus ns which are dependent upon undisturbed breeding habitats and are
therefor under pres   within much of their European range. Wetlands such as floodplains,
lakes and bogs are also importnt breeding, fedeng and roosting stes for migratory
*atoibrds. Somne wedands in Belarus are considered to be of intemational importance and
are potential candidates for designation as Ramsar sites once Belarus has officially succeeded
the former USSR as a Contacting party to this Convention.
21. The commercial use of waterlogged peat areas is both hisuticaly and more recently
related to extaction of peat for energy and horticultual uses, and intensive mechanised strip-
mining has made massive inreads into raised bogs in Bdarus over the last six to seven
decades.
22. According to the Academy of Science about 1,5 mill. tons of peat are mined annually sr
production of soil conditioner. In addition to traditional use, peat is also used in the chemi.
and medicine industies.
23. About 18% of peatlands in the Republic (outside strct protected areas) are conserved in
a natural condition, but they can be used to a certain unspecified limit by the public including
berry-picldng.



21
24. A conflict between the protection and utilization of forested wetlands is apparent. In the
public opinion there are argumcnts for better protection of forested wetlands. The Academy
of Science claims that sustinable use and pro=ecdon can be succesfuily integrated. It was a
genemal observation duning the review, supported by statements by reprsentatives of th:
Committee for Ecology and the Academy of Sciae, that intemational experience of
sustainable use approaches to planning for the restoration and consrvation of natural habitats
ncluding monitoring are urgently required.
25. atenational assistance should include:
- Transfer of scientific )mow-how;
- Planning for alternative uses (recreation, eco-tourism, fishing and hunting;
- Sustainable use of peadands for forestry and extensive agriculture without
irrization; and
- Restoratin of the hydrological regime in order to conserve and maintain nzturl
conditions.
4.3 Protection of Wildlife
26. About 30% of the species mentioned in the official Belardssian Red Data Book (RDB)
are related to wetlands (birds, mammals, invertebrates, reptiles, plants etc.). The protection
of rare species is used by the Committee for Ecology in the argument for the protection of
nature including wlands and to convince users to accept protected areas within their region.
The RDB has been completed in accordance with intrational standards.
27. The Belanussian Society of Hunters and Fishermen informed the Reviewer that the hunters
are interested in nature conservation including protection of wildlife. They are often in
optpositon to the MinFor because of unwise use of waterlogged areas for reclamation, peat-
mining, etc.
28. A Belgian company and the Bclarus Government are worldng on a Joint Ventue
agreenent for hunting arangemcnts, which includes foreign funding.



22
S. FORESTRY OPERATIONS IN WETLANDS
29. The harvesting plans for forested wedands are included in the oveall plan for a forest
distict without any specific conseration measues being aplied at present. It is the generl
view that the MinFor's auhiority is limited as regards control over the local forest disticts
or enterprises and the enforcement of certain actions and regulations.
30. Concering the forest planng procedure, monitoring is not an integrated process. The
Reviewer was infornmed that only a kdnd of supervisory check is applied every 5 years within
a planning period of 10 years. The check is mainly on the quality of the forest (measurement
of valuable trecs), requirements for new drainage and maintenance of existing drainage
systems. economic activities, major cutting, planting and natual regeneration.
31. The checking procedue does not currently cover wildlife populations and habitats, plant
communities, rae or endangezcd species, etc., and only addesses conservation needs to a
limited extend.
32. Thare are no ecological or biological expes participating in the forest planning and
cheking procedure at present.
33. Since 1989, a new procedure conceming physical-chemnical monitoring of air pollution,
chemical discharges to water systems, etc., has been introduced. It is conducted within a grid-
systen:
1. grids of 16 x 16 km including forested wetlands in the open landscape (also
forest),
2. grids of 4 x 4 In close to populatedareas, and
3. along the westen border of the Repubic in grids of 8 x 8 krn within a 30 an
broad zone.
34. Along rivcrs and lakes there is a protected zone of about 40D itr ide (m forests
sometimes 6,000 m wide). ClearfeDing in this zone is resticted. No logging -^ allowed in the
neaest zone of about 100-300 m. except for opeations in relation to disease zontrol and fire
protecion. Ihe special protection zone covers about 500,000 ha of forests and semi-forested



23
land in the Republic. The regulations are adopted by the parliament and included in the forest
code and in the MinFor's forestry management manuals.
5.1 Pestides, Herbicides and Fbunlcdes
35. The use of chenmicals is prohibited in foremstry opeations in wooded wetands. In dry
forest the use is very limited and is mostly related to disease control in economically valuable
stands. During forestry education, the students are instructed in how to hande and use
dangerms chamicals. In forested vietlands the use and disdcarge of chemicals is prohibited
as an environmental protection measure.
5.2 Protected Sites in Forested Land
36. Areas of waterlogged soil and forested wetlands of national significance are specially
protected. If areas are of what is called local significance it is up to the local authorities (di-
sricts) to take action. The effectivecness of this possibility for local action is depending on the
awareness of the forestry staff for nature conservation, a positive dialogue with local NGO's,
and the economically benefits of certain measures, e.g. improved hunting and fishing.
5.3. Intendsied Silviculte Operations
37. In genrcal, there is an interest in harvcsting matur tes in forested wetlands.
Broadleaved trees of more than 40 years of age represent a valuable commercial resourc
The introduction of light mechanistion into the MinFor equipment pool creates a potential
risk of adverse impacts on wedands such as disruption of natural processes in very senstive
formations including plant communities and groundwater, pollution from oil and lubricants,
and disurbance of wildlife and habitats for rare species.
38. Thinning of immatue forest is mostly done at present in planted areas or natural forest
on dry land, and is normally not applied to forested wcdands.
5.3.1 Reclamation and drainape
39. Different opinions for and against reclamation of forested wetlands exist in the public and
within the MiNFor. Countrywide, about 220,000 ha of peatlands are not used economically.
Of this portion, about 1 10,000 ha are protected as hydrological reserves and about 30,000 ha



24
are set aside as protected cranberry bogs.
40. 'Tere are special regulafions for each protected area, e.g. no forestry operalions are
pemitted except for measures for fire and dise   prevention, and drainage is not allowed
in a buffer zone adjacent to the protected bogs.
41. About 230,000 ha of wooded forest have been reclaimed over time. These systems will
probably not be cxtended. In some cases there are prWosals for estoring former waterlogged
areas. Th reclaimed areas are diked, but the drainage systems are normally finctioning
without use of pumping plants. There are sluices in the dikes which prevent flooding of
reclaimed areas.
42. Within the reclaimed areas, there are open drainage systems with ditches and canals, but
drAine only occurs in relation to discharge of surhce water. In practioe, such drainage wil
only be applied in rlation to the maintenance of exisdng systcms.
43. Wetlands are considered to be wooded landscapes of low commercial importance if the
bee-cover is less than 30%. If the tree-wver exceeds 30%, forested wedands are considered
to have economic potential.
44. About 210,000 ha of fens and floodplains are periodically flooded.
5.4 Wildlife
45. Informal rules are integrated in current forest management practices including restrictions
on forestry opeaAdons during the breeding period for birds and mammals. Dead stems and
cavities arc, as a gencral rule, left behind as breeding sites for certain bird species (e.
Woodpeckers Pida, Falcons Ea3gnida=, and Owls Strigida and mammals).
46. Concerning conflicts with forestry intersts, the only issue mentioned by the Society was
problems in relation to managing the population of Moose Alces alTeh. ehe forest personnel
want to keep the population at a rdatively low level in order to avoid damage to  etrecs.
Tbe total population of Moose in Belarus is about 30,00D animals. The issue is not only



25
related to forested wetlands, as even unforested bogs are important habitats for Moose.
47. The Society of Hunters and Fishcrmen is cooperating with the forest managers concerning
management of certain quarry species depending on wetlands likle Capercailie  =aa
flgraIIUl and Black Grouse L=rus tetrix.
48. Spring hunting is allowed for Caprcaillie and Black Grouse in April but only mals can
be hunted. Woodcock Slola nan be hunted in sping also, but only during
weekends in April.
49. The main hunting season is from lae July until the end of November. Hunting for
waterbirds is mainly conducted on the floodplains, larger lakes and waterlogged areas such
as meadows and bogs, but not normally on forested wedands covered by shrubs and trees.
Ther is an informal consultation procedure betwee the hunters organisation and the MinFor.
50. In the Usyazhsky Forest (the Smolevichi Forest Enterpxise), situated about 40 km from
Mnsk, the development of tourism including hunting for waterbirds has been considered. The
forest staff has created about 1,00 ha of wedand on fonner degraded pelands. The new
weands consist of a mosaic of lakes and temporary flooded meadows, and they attract
significant numbers of waterbirds during migration.
51. The Usyazhsky Forest initiative is only one eacmple of ineasing intst in restoring
wetlands; often as an alternative to afforestation of low-lying areas. Countrywide, it is to be
anticipated that rational wildlife management on floodplains, lakes and semi-natural wetlands
may have a positive effect and improve Belarussian wedands for waterbirds.



26
6. IMPORTANT ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
52. The general impression of the mission is tbat forestry in wooded wedands is mainly
related to afforestatio of mined peadands Smaller waterlogged areas within forests arc less
udlised and the main environmental impacts come from drainage of adjacent areas, dumping
of solid waste and pollution.
6.1 Proposed Itensified Silviculture Operations
53. The medium-term objectives of the World Bank's assistance on the Forestry Development
Project is to improve forest resource management and the economic value of the standing
tree-stock. In addition, phased policy reforms for the sector would contribute to the
emergence of a maret-based production system, and intrduce competitive pricing and wood
SupplieL
54. An importat elment of the pmject is the introduction of lght-mwhanisation harvest
aiming for investnents in new machinery (chain-saws, units for terrain tansport, etc.,
including safety equipment for workers). It is emphasised in the Forest Development Project
documnt that the introduction of light harvesting mechanisation will reduce fuel and labor
costs, and contributc to highcr efficiency and productivity, thus increasing economic rurnis
and saving foreign exchange on reduced fuel requirements.
55. In combination with an integrated consenation and management approach covering
forested wedands the proposed programme would be beneficial to the environment because:
abolition of old and poluting machinery may reduce negative impacts on soil and water by
reducing oil-spill, soil compaction and erosion, and damage to stands.
56. However, the proposed intensified foresty operations and the introduction of light-
machinery may increase the potential risk of advese impacts on valuable wetland habitats.
By following the wetands-forestry ER proposed mitigating -measures and recommendations
(see table I and 2) the negative impacts would be minimized to a limit of acceptable change.



27
6.1.1 Environmental iMpacts of forestrv opeations in wetland areas (see table 1):
57. A. Adverse Impacts:
a) Change of thc hydrological regime. The waterlogged environmet, especially peatands
which are dpendnat upon an undisbrbed groundwater table, is sensitive to soil
compaction caused by caterpillar-tracd vehicl, skdding, and dainap.
b) Felling and thinning may change the eclogical charac-teristics of a habitat in relatio
to plant and animal communities, etc.
c) Drainage of foested wetlands can expose fte topsoil to fire haard.
d) Intrduction of te  specs alim  to Bdams forestd wedands may impoverish
biodivrsilty by changing the habitat
e) Use of toxic ch als and oil-products dunng forestry opeations can affect
grundwater quality, ecological stability, and nay cause discharge of pollutants to
water-courses.
i) Over-exploitation of forest adjacet to wedands can also have an adverse impact on the
welands by changing tieir eclogical character.
g) Loggig and transportation ncluding skidding may cause soil  osin.
h) Disrtion of habitats for wilife, loss of tee spe-cies on which wildlife depend.
58. B. Positive Ipacts:
a) Caeful thinning of immature stands may enhance the habitat for wildlife and improve
biodiversity.
b) By co        with use of heavy equipment introduction of light equipment can redue
soil-compaction and adverse damage to soil and remaining starns.
c) Intrduction of intentional standards for planning, management and mtooning can
improve the basis for sustainable forestry. Standards for conserving and managng
forested wetlands should be based on guideines and criteia developed by the
Ramsar Convention and IUCN.
d) The implementation of the Project is likely to be beneficial to local communities
through cration of employment and development of altemative uses of forested
wedands.



28
6.2. Cuoent Legl and M snst Regime
59. There is an inasing awareness concerning natue consrvion wit.iin the MinFor
administration. A national wedand policy is implicit incorporated in a number of new
nvironmental laws which have already been adopted by tie Parliament or which are under
peParation. The revised law complex includes the envirnmal protecon law (adopted),
a law concerng consumption waste treatment (under preparation), a law concening special
protected sites (under prepaation), a law on protection of wildlife (under preparafion), a law
on protection of watcr resources (prepared for adoption), and a law concenming a nviron-
mental tax-osystm (under considaaion).
60. Comprhensve nature potecton (concerning an oveall nature policy) has been paid little
attention in the Nature Pro n and Forestry legislation. Nature conservation has been
inteated to a cerain extend, but needs further atention and integration on aU administative
levels. Some areas are designated as protected sites with various degrees of protection, and
cov  a little more than 1 million ha (for details see the Forest Development Prqject).
61. The laws mentioned above have not been assessed in details under the ER. The legislative
structure inciuding the protection measures that tey provide should be reviewed in-depth
during the Forestry Strategy study.
62. According to the Committee for Ecology the implementation of planned nature parks and
reseves is a very slow process. It was a general observation, based on consultations with
governmental authonties and local frsters, that regional authonties are often in opposition
to the designation of protected areas becuse of legal obligations.
63. The principles of a revised national policy on forestry is exprssed in the preamble of the
draft new forestry legislation. Emphasis is given to management of forests in order to
prserve and ahance the envrnment, and to meet the needs of the national economy on a
sustainable basis (Forest Development report). The Forest Development Project states that
*MiFor lack planning capacity, and it has incufficient capacity to develop forest strategies
and policies for fte entire forestry sector, and to monitor and control properly forestry related
activites outside the lands under its own jurisdiction".



29
64. It is also, as mentioned before, the observation from the review that strgthening of the
control over forestry operations and related activities, e.g. peat-mining, is needed. In general,
the utiLisation of natual resources in sensitive areas such as forested wetlands and peatlands
should be based on constraints defined in adequate legislan.
6.3 bmprovin Environmental LeIslation and Cooperation
65. It is mentioned in the Belarus Environment Strategy Study that the 'Law on Environ-
mental Protection', which is a significant step forward, is not specific enough in several
impotant areas, e.g:
- the definition of r ilities between the State Committee for Eoology and the regional
and local authorities;
- the contrl and implementation of environmental monitoring;
- ecological erise and envirnmental impact assessment (EIA).
66. In addition, the definition of responsibilities between the State Committee for Ecology and
resource ministries such as the MinFor should be specified.
6.4 Utilfsation of Excavated Peatlands
67. The conservation of remaing orginal natural peatlands must have rust pnonty as a
meamsre to improve and maintain biodiversity. Most economic activities such as draina4e,
mning and to a ertain extent rera on in and around peat formations are responsible for
serious irversible impacts on peatlands in the western part of Europe and in North A,ncrica
The natural assets of peatlands include: that active peat bogs are carbon deposits, they are
natural water rrvoirs, and they are important habitats for wildlife and plant species.
68. Extensive areas of pealands in Beas  have been stip-mined. It is normal pracice
conducted by MinFor to afforest mined areas. TIe selected tree-species are normally native
coniferous species such as spruce P , and Scots Pine Pinus  .ly.rtis with mixtr of
broadleaf, and the appearance of a new forest is often a homogeneous monocuture. To a
certain extent, some low-lying mined areas are flooded in situations when successfil affore-
station would require expesive reclamaton and mmntenance of a drainage system and
pumping plants.



30
6.5 WdlIfe M aement
69. Obviously foestry in wooded wetlands may have an effect on wildlife habitats.
However, some of the mitigating mesue mentioned in sctdon 7.4 wuilialso be beneficial
to wildifc, but in addition some other issues should be addressed including:
- hunting for watrbirds in wetands;
- enhancement of breeding habitats;
- s ishmt of refuges.
6.5.1 Hunting fgr waterbirds
70. Most hunting inests are relted to lakes, floodplains and restred wetlands while,
hunting for waterbirds in natural peatlands and dense forested wetlands is limited. However,
improved acces due to the constucion of new forestry roads may increase huntng
oppories, the risk of poaching, and distubance to wildlife.
6.5.2 Bmreding habitats for wildlife
71. Spcal atention should be paid to wildlife during the planning and implementation of
forestiy operations in forested wetlands . It is possible to protect wildlife habitams and the
wilde itslf by adopting very simple measures.
72. By leaving dead trees and trees containing cavities, the breeding possibilities for certain
bird species can be maintained. In several forest such measures are already implemented
vohmntardy. Opratins to avoid disturbance to wildlife shoud be timed carflly, and based
on: 1) local assesment of widife resources; 2) local plan for identifying sensitive ssns.
73. The European Beaver Castor fiber is abundant in Beams and in other Easter European
regos, but rare or endangered in Westen and Central Europe. The beaver should be
considered a 'rsponible speciesu deserving careful protection. Ir. forested wetlands outside
National Parls specially proteted areas should be designated as refuges for beaver.
Protion measures do not imply a total ban on forestry within protected areas, but mitigating
measures must be taken in considrtion.



31
6.5.3 Eab1isbment of refiues
74. In zlation to the Forest Development Programme, the construction of roads and tra,
the acssibility to forested wcdands, Lake and other waterlogged areas may be improved.
The possible subsequent development of orgnised tounsm, hunting and other non-forestry
activities that improved access will assst may require consideation of the introduction of
wildlife refuges in combinafion with low-utiliion zones".



32
7. MITIGATIG INTGSES D FORESTRY AND OTHIR LAND-USE
75. Mitigating measur are essential in order to maintain the natual values and functions of
forested vedands, which permitting controLed susainable exploitation of their timber
resours. Tne possble env       al impacts of inensified silviculture methods and
planning ame likly to include:
7.1 IntensIfied Snvkulture
76. Foresy in wooded wetands should only be applied on a limited scale by carefl thining
and logging of mau  trees and only if the operations can be implemented without
irrcvsblc damage to fth habitat.
77. Even when it is not possible to identify a commercial market for thinning material, the
thinned trees should be removed from the wetland. Othrwiwse the surplus of nutrients released
by decomposition of the organic matial may in the longer term change the ecological
characteristic of thc habitat by changing the succession in plant communities.
78. However, the Rcviewer agrees with the suggestions of the JaakkD Poyry CDostant
conceing  thinning in natural regenerated forest, with the above meationed modification for
wetlands.
79. The main purpose for thinning and other forstry operations in wetlands, including
restoration of wetlands, should only be related to:
- sustainable harvesting;
- nature conservation;
- improving wildlife habitats;
- improving biodiversity in general; and
- maintenance of natal processes.
80. As far as possible, thes operaions should create sustinable socio-econoniit cnefits for
local communities.



33
81. Sustinable forestry management of wooded wetlands should include the following
mitigating measures (see table 1):
- conservation of remaining origial wetlands;
- narul regeneraton and nO plating;
- low intensity thinning;
- removal of tiinned maerial;
-  =eeution of logging, thinning and transporIato operations only when the soil is frmz;
- dosure of old dainage systems and resoaion of natural conditions;
- reston and cration of wetands in forme peat-mined areas wbere mining has stopped
- total ban on use of fertilizes, pesticides, hbebicides and ohr hazardous chemicals;
- measures ainung for proteton of natural streams and creeks in and around forested
wedands by introduction of mud logs and pole bridges for crossings (developed by St.
Mary's River Foestry-Wildlife Project, see Annex IV); and
- review of protection measures provided by the present and planned environmental
legision.
- control of access, where necessary to restrict illigal hunting, disturbance to wildlife or ris
of fires, etc.
7.2 Conservation of Excavated Peatlands
82. Degraded peatlands should be considered as areas for natur rehabilitation. From an
environmental point of view the restoration of wetlands in former mined peal-eposits can
improve biodiversity, and develop potential for alternative lsts incl.   g green touism,
sporliihing, hunting, education and research. Further, creation of wetlands, as an altemative
to afforestation, is a fire-preventaive measure and may also limit the impact of discharge of
ochre to water-courses as a esult of mining and lowering the groundwater table.
83. On former peat-mining areas, considered for afforestation, the tree species should be a
selection of native broadleaved and coniferous species in order to improve biodiversity and
prevent fire hazards. It is important to create fire-breals in combination with buffes of
broadleaved species.



34
73 Wildlife
84. Forested wetlands should, as a general principle, be considered as special m a
areas aiming for fte improvement of biodiversity. This principle should also apply to buffer
zones adjacent to forested wetands, including wate courses as well as ecological corridors
connecting assocated wedtands. The width of special manement zones in such transitions
should be measured according to specfic reqairements for the potecton or improvent
of naturl plant communitics and habitats for animal.
85. The establibment of refuges or similar measures should be an integrated elemct in an
ovcrall planning suategy for conservation and protection of forested wetlands (see als section
8).
86. The main goal for implementng a refuge stategy for forested wetlands must be to
promote management which contributes to the wedands' role as important wildlife habitats.
Such forested wetland reuges would:
- reduce the human impact caused by disubance;
- retain opportmities for wildfowl hunting in adjacent areas; and
- provide water!4irds wnth access to available food resources.
87. The consequences of sustainable conservation and management of forested wetlands as
habitats for plants and animals, and as an element in a biodiversity swategy should include
the following additional mitigating measures (see also table 1 and 2):
- maintainlnstall inventory programmes on wetlands and species depending on wetlands (see
table 2);
- leave dead stems and cavities as breeding and rosting facilities for ceain mammal and
bird species;
- prohibit spring hunting in forested wetands and in buffer zones of a munimum width of 300
metres;
- establish special management areas and zones covering wetlands, ecotones and ecological
corridors;
- implemet monitoring wnth local participation; and
- improve wardening.



35
S. FORESTRY PLANNING AND MANAGEMEN
88;. he Reviewer agrees with the comments in the Strategy Study that legislation which
establishes the basis for ne  conservation and sustainable use of naural resources at a
national, and local leecl is the best possible platform for managing forested wetlands.
89. A comprehensive strategy for overall nature protedon including a national wetland policy
should cover the following areas:
8.0.1 A National Wedand InventoIy
90. The development of a national wetlands invento.y is necessary in order to provide basic
information on the exctent, condition and status of wetand resources, to evaluate this
information in order to identify wetlands of intnational and national importance, to develop
guideines for planning, tD provide information for decision making, and to assess the
correCtness of past approaches and decisons.
91. The proposed WeWland Inventory prepared by the Academy of Science and IWRB, which
will focs on wetlands of intemational significance, should be expanded to include forested
wetands which are of national or local inpxrtnce.
8.0.2 Apnintment of a Management Authority
92. The inventory progrmme should be implemented under the supei on of a single
administrtive body, preferably under the dircion of a central management agency. This
agency should have the competence to analyse and address socio-economic issues in relation.
to ecological benefits within the local and national context
8.0.3 Develoumnt of Manauement Plans
93. Managemnt plans are an important aspect of nature conservation and should be given
due priority. A plan should provide a timetable and the reference framework for all activities
in the management arxa All sites considered for special protection should be covered by a
managemeit plan that describes the basic ecology of the area, defies the functions and
objectives of the plan, descrbes monitoring procedures, and envages the sustainable
utilisation.



36
94. A management plan should also place the site concened in the context of the whole
region, stresing the loal communities and users as integrated components of a comprehensi-
ve resource and land-use plan.
95. The development of effective management planning is the key to ensuing the long-term
maintenance of the biodiversity of the are
96. Ihe Belaussian forsted wetlands should be integraed into the proposed wetland
inventory programme in o;der to wcvelop the bac': for management planning.
,0.4 Local Action
97. It is essential that local communities and environmental NGO's are involved in the
consevation and utilisation of local wetland resources. The right to pardcipate il the
development decision-makdng process must be backed up by the allocafion of responsibility
and promotion of environmental awareness at local leveL
8.0.5 Naional Action
98. Ihe stategy should encourage interaction between the public and the planning and
management authorities supported by a national framework of environmental legislation.
8.0.6 International Action
99. The conseraion effort should not be seen only as a Belarussian concern. The European
and wider internional communities have a responsibility to conserve important ecosystems
to ensure the susinable utilisation of natural resources. The international awareness concerns
control of air pollution and discharge of contaminants into shared waterbodies; management
of migratory species (especially bids) and internationally important wedands; and
imprement of intemational coopation.
100. International Conventions such as the Biodiversity Convention, Convention on Migratory
Species (Bonn Convention), Convention on Conservation of European Habitats (Bene
Convention), Convention on Wetlands of Intemational Importance, Especially as Waterfowl
HIabitats (Ramsar Convention), and the World Heitage Convention provide important



37
mechanisms for addressing international environmental issues.
101. The development of an inventory programme and procedures for managemcnt planning
require intenational funding, exchange of know-how and taning of personnel.
.1 Social Impacts of the Project
102. The Eimtal Review conducted by Euroconsult on the technical and investment
elements of the proposed Forest Development Project has emphasised the advantage of
introduction of modern equipment in reMlation to health, working conditions, etc.
103. In addition, the implementation of the Project is likely to be beneficial to local
communities through cration of employment through intensified forestry activities,
development of alternative uses of forested wetlands such as eco-tourism and arrangemets
for hunters and sport fishermen from abroad.
8.2 Recommendations (see table 2)
104. The comprehensive management of forsted wetlands for sustinable utilisation is an
imporant mehanism for the mitigation of adverse imparts arising from sectoral use. The
development of management plans will make it easier to foresee and take appropriate
preautions against possible negative impacts on the environment. Mitigating measures should
include (see also table 1):
- establishing an Agency under the State Committee for Ecology to effectively coordinate the
conservation and management of natural resources including forested wetlands at national
and local levels;
- assessment of present awid planned legislation concerning forestry and the environment;
- imDlementinternational standards and guidelines for management planning;
- developing management plans for forestd wlands including mapping of fears of
ecological inst and environmentally sensitive areas;
- participation of biological, ecological and hydrological expertise in the planning process;
- strngthining local participation and awareness; and
- reduce and mediate conflicts of interest.



38
9. MONrIORING
105. t is strongly recommended that a monitoring programme should be developed as an
integral componnt to management of forsted wctands, in order to avoid irreversible impacts
and thc dgdation of habitats from forestry opeations and realed activities.
106. The Academy of Science and IWRB are preparing a national Wetland Inventory focusing
on intaonally important wedands in Belarus. It is recommended tha fthis progamme
should be supported and expanded to include forested wedands in order to assess their
national significance. Such a step is important to provide the baseline information for
management plnning.
107. Concemning monitoring forested welands, the programme should provide a description
of enironmental and ecological charactrisfics of the sites concerned. The programme is
expected to:
- prvide data necessary to define or confirm managenent issues;
- serv as a rference for the evaluation of enviromnmental or ecological changes;
- provide data on wildlife, particularly on migatory watebirds and breeding animals;
- prvide data to identfy key sites for migrting waterbirds;
- serve as refern  for evaluation of the effect of human  disturban=c to wildlife; and
- provide data to evaluate the effect of management projects.
10g. A-3-5 year monitonng pri mme should include:
- programmes for caesusing all important, rare and endangered fauna especaly including
migaing waterbirds and breeding birds at selected sites;
- an assessment of human impact on forested wetlands (recreational and commercial
actvtes);
- mapping of plant communities, the delimitation of forested wetlands and buffer zones, and
open water on maps (scale 1:25,000 or 1:50,000):
- training of professional and voluntary bird cesus teams; and
- a da:a base (GIS) for storing and pmcessing infonmaton.
109. An integmted monitoring programme requires intenational funding. It is recommended



39
that IWRB expertise should be involved in coordinating the proposed inventory programme
in coopeation with the Academy of ScieneL
110. The programme should also be linked to the proposed Berezinsky Biosphere Reserv
monitoring project



40
10. TRADUNG AND WARDENING
111. Management and monitoring of natural rcsources and protected areas as wcll as the
implmentation of new adminisaive structr  are dependent on having sufficient trained
112. Training courses should be aimed at different levels vathin the following two categones:
a) Ical level linked to a specific progamme including:
- research assistents, field managers, forest based psonnel, e.g., contraors, farmers,
'unters and wardens; and
- loggers, egineers, road-constructors, foremen and drivcrs.
b) Central level tAining and educaion on ecological, social, economical and management
orientated issues:
113. In relation to the &darussn Forst Development Project tining requirements has been
mientioned and emphassed by reviews conducted by Euroconsult and the Jaaklo Poyry
Consult. However, only little attention is paid to the needs for a broader taining for nature
conservation, wildlife managcment, monitoring and wardening. It is strongly recommended
at cra     shoud be given to including these elements in an integated training
progammne
10.1. hplementg T          Pr      s
114. A number of training programmes for MinFor staff are porposed in the Forestry
Development Project. The progrmmes should be administered by MinFor, using training
contiactors for the design and implementation. These would be intemational and national
experts including specific courses provided by Kirov and other Universities.
115. The Universities would be assisted by experts assigned for the Forestry S.  gy Plan.
116. The forestry training progammes should be expanded in order to integrate,  ation
on monitoring and wetland conservation and management. An integrated trning proL. mme
should adds:
- awareness building;



41
- conservation and management of forested wetlands and other ecologically important
wetlands;
- wildlife management; and
- wardening.
10.1 Building Community Pipaonand Awareness
117. An important, but often overlooked, element in a sustnable conservation and
mmgment strategy is how to impove public awareness. Resource management programmes
can only succeed if they are perceived as necessary and fair by a lage majority of affected
popuations. Therefore, public awareness and participation are essential aspects of a wetlands-
forestry stuateg. Integrated programmes create the conditions necessary to implement
effective measues for sustinable utilisaion of forest resources through:
- increased public arcation:
- well informed local residents and resourceusers;
- increased pubEc involvment and support;
- fair balance of public and priority intersts; and
- fair balance of conservation and uflisation.
10.2 FEnding and assistance
118. A comprehensier training and awareness programne requires international support, on-
site asstance and funding. Training programmes concerning forested wedands and other
ecologically important sites should be linked to a full package including monitoring,
managenent and consernion.
119. It is recommended that international expertise on integrated traning programmes should
include IWRB assistance in cooperafion with MinFor, Academy of Science and Univcrsitie
Furthr, a woring group attended by national and intenational epesentatives should be
formed in order to develop integrated training programmes and define sources for funding.



1
ANNEX I
BELARUS
Forest Development Project
Wetland Forestry Environmental Review
on Forested Wetlands
DOCUUENTATION
World Bank Documents:
Emvironmental Assesment Sourceok, 1991: World Bank Technical Paper no. 139, 140
& 154, (Vol. I,I} & III).
Belarns Environment Stmtegy Study, 1993: Joint Report of the Government of Bdaus
and the World Bank, Vol. I & II. - Report No. 11926-BY for Official Use.
Opeaional Manual: Operational Directive 4.01: Environental Assessment.
Gilobal Environment Facility (GEF), 1992: Bedarus Forest Biodivesty Protecdon Pro
ject - Joint World Bank, VNDP & UNEP Report.
Belarus Forestry Development Project, draft 1993: Document for Official Use.
Belarns Fonrtry DevelOpment Project, 1993: TermS of Reference, Wedands Forestry
nvironmental Review.
Belar  Forstry Development Project, 1993: Environmental Review. - Euroconsult Draft
Mission Report
Poland Forest Development Support Project, 1993: Report No. 11318-POL for Official
Use-
laakko Poyry Forestry Production Mission Report: Environmental Aspects of Thinning
Young Pine Plantations in Belarus. - Report for Official Use.
Other Consulted Documents:
Canadian Institute of Forestry, 1992: St. Mary's River Foestry - Wildlife Project,-
Managing Wildlife With Forestry Through Co-opration and Education. - Nova
Scotia Department of Land and Forests.



2
Forest and Water, 1993: Guidelines from The Forest Authority, UK, Farnham, 32 pp.
Global Biodiversity Stategy, 1992: Guidelines for Action to Save, Study, and Use Earth's
Biotic Wealth Sustainably and Equitably. - Joint WRI, IUCN & UNEP Report,
244 pp.
M2itby, E., 1986: Waterlogged Wealth. - international Institute for Environmental
Development, London, 200 pp.
The Republic of Bydarns Red Data Book, 1993: State Committee for Ecology, Minskl
560 pp.



ANNEX U
BELARUS
Forest Development Project
Wetland Foresty Envlroumental Review
on Forested Wetlands
CoasnitesIn the Republic of Bderu
State Committee for Real=   of the Rpubic of Belarus
Mr. Anatoly M. Dorofeev, Chairman
Mr. Alkxander N. Rachevsky. Head of Department of Science and Foreign Relations
Mr. Vyachesmav Savitsky. Head of Special Inspection over the Use and Protection of
Wldlife, Hunting and Protected Aareas
Mr. Anatoly Metlitsky. Head of Specialised State Control for Inspection on the Usc and
Protection of Land and Forest
Ms. Naalya Y. Fyodorova. Leading speciaUist on Inspection of Forested Land
Academy of Sciences of Belarus
Dr. Ivan L Lishtvan, Institute Director, Institute for Problems of the use of Nanul
Resources and Ecology.
Dr. Vladimir F. Loginov, Professor, Deputy Director, Institute for Problems of the use of
Natmal Resources and Ecology
Mr. Ivan Tanovitsky. Senior Researcher, Chemical and Geological Sciences Division,
Institute for Problens of the Use of Natural Resources and Ecology
Dr. Mickolai Bambalov, corresponding member of the Academy of Science
Dr. Yuriy A. Vyawvich, Head Researcher, Institute of Zoology
Mr. Alexander Pukhovsky. Leading Engineer, the Production Divisi,  of Belarus Forest
Management Productive Association
Ministra of Education of the Reuublic of Belarus
Dr. Leonid Zasumsky, Professor, Read of Department of Forest Cultur- of the Bye-
lomussian Technological Institute of Forestry



Ministgr of Forestry of the Republic of Belarus
Mr. Milhail V. Kuzmenkov, Head of the Department of Forestry and Hunting
M. Nimblai Stasevich, Leading Engineer, the Republican Station of Forest
Protection and Monitoring
Mr. Serei Rafaisky, Chicf Engineer, Forstry Designing Institute
Mr. Konstantin Vasyukevich, Head of Departnent of Forest Restoration and Exploitation
VQOlhin FOreSt Manag=nent Ent=Mse
Mr. Vldimir Y. Borshtch, Director
Mr. Niklai Stasevich, Leading Engineer
Mr. Vasily V. Shakum, Forest Engineer and Distnci Hunter
Ummbdw hFors
Dr. Vasily Chisty, Chief Forestcr, Smolevichi Forest Enterprise
Mr. Yury Protosovitsky, Forest Engineer, Usyazhsky Forest
Byclorussian Socicty of Hunters and Fishermen
Mr. Advard Banad, Chairman
inskyBiohere Reserve
MT. Vladimir Gonchar, Director
Mr. Vasily Arnolbik, Leading Researcher
Mr. Valery Ivkovich. Senior Researcher



ANNEX m
BELARUS
Forest Development Project
Wetland Forestry Environmental Review
-            on Forested Wetlands
Tenns of Reference Key Issucs:
The Tcrms of Refcrence for the ER include assessment of the following muin topics:
1. Introduction of light-mechanized labor, intensive havest and tfinning system, and the
expanson of the MinFor equipment pool;
2. Ithe proposed use of intensified silviculture management techniques on the immature
forest resources.
Major areas of impaa of forstry management in the wetlands that have been suggested
for considetion by the Environmcntal Review are:
- groundwatcr
- wildlfe habitats;
- biodiversityr
- sustinable harvesting and tree-stock regeneration;
- review of both designated and proposed wedand consevation areas.
Potential issu es for the ER defmed in Terns of Rererence
The following issues have been identified as potential concerns for the forestry opeation
in wooded wetlands:
a) annual harvest plans and standards for wetland forestry and their habitat impact
implications;
b) the applicability of the project's proposed intensified silviculture regime to the forested
wetlands, and the impact of any maintenance and harvesting activities on biological,
ecological, and physical conditions of the wetlands;
.~~~~~~



2
c) MinFor's mechanization practices in the forested wetlands and the proposed introduc-
tion of light mechanisation technology;
d) inFor's environmental standards set for all wetlands forstry activities (roads, land
preparation, thinning, pest and discase control, fire-prevention);
e) MiFor's regulatory and supervisory powers over harvesting operations and the
effc-tiveness of their implecmentation in forested wetlands;
f) MiNuor's operative rules for replanted and natural regeneration sites in forested
wetlands (eg. site selection, species selection, land preparation);
g) Minor's fire prevention practices (buffer zones, interplanting of conifers with broadle-
aved species);
h) MinFor's wildlife management policies and practices in non protected areas;
i) evaluation of the socio-economic value of wetlands forests, and the impact of intensifi-
catfion of wetlands forestry practices due to changes in employment, seasmoability of
employment, and possible impacts duc to the use of wetlands forest areas for recea-
tion, hunting and berry/mushroom collecting; and
j) the adequacy of the proposed wetlands areas for conservation and protctdon.



ANNEX IV
BELARUS
Forest Development Project
Wetland Forestry Environmental Review
on Forested Wetlands
The following pages of ANNEX IV are demonstrating the constrction of
Pole Bridge and Mud Log.
The mitigating arrangements, suggested for crossings, e.g., ir; forested
wetlands and other seasitive waterlogged habitats, are developed by
Canaldian Institute of Forestry (1992) under the St. Mry's River Forestry-
Widlife Project.
Address:
The St. Mary's River Forestry-Wildlife Project
do Nova Scotia Department of Lands and Forests
11 James Street
Antigonish, N.S. B2G 1R6



AGREEMENT    ST. MARY'S RIVER FORESTRY WILDLIFE PROJECT
FOR FORESYTR
DEVELOPuAENI
w                       Stream  Protection
_ Ca   5z    SMRP .0007                                     May, 1992
POLE BRIDGE
The portable pole or log bridge Ls useful In logging operatlons where you find small
feeder streams, springs, and seepages. In some cases you may come to a small brook
one to two feet wide which does not require a larger, crnnventional steel or timber
forwarder bridge. The use of a simpler crossing Is possible because of these narrower
crossings.
BRIDGE-CONSThiUCTION
1. You'll need ten hardwood poles about 5-6" (13-15 cm) dlameter at the small end, about
i6 feet (about 5 m) long and fairly straight. The poles should be the same length.
2. The poles are put together In two sections of five using 4 pieces of 5)16th chain
approxImately 12 (3.5 m)feet long.
3. Each chain goes. about 4 ftL (about 1 m) In
chains         bedlogs  .X-        from the end of each of the poles. Twisting
4-"P/ v- i   the top and bottom chains between each
>X&K_    i     <9                    pole keeps the poles and chains from
slipping. Bolt the chain ends together.
4. Select two bed logs-18 foot (5.5 m)
hardwood poles - about 7 Inches (18 cm)
chains       diameter at the small end. These are used
to protect the stream banks as the poles
__/,/  __5\>\   bend under the machine's weight.
5. Once constructed, this bridge can be
top chain             Installed In a few minutes.
twist      twvist
boHt
bottom chain



_BRD1GE INSTALLATION
pole
bridge     1. Load the bridge sections onto the
S _                     forwarder and then the bed logs.
Stream  i .    ' -      .    - - e>5-2. Look for a place to cross the stream or wet
bank    \Jfj), F                   area that has firm ground and little slope.
bedlogs               3. Make sum there are no large stumps. It
trees must be cut, cut the stumps low.
4. Place bed logs on each side of the feeder
stream about 4 feet apart (about
1 m). The bed logs must be lower than the
bridge so that the bridge sectlons won't
BP, * . ..-,   _ , z ,., .,.pivot on the logs.
5. Lower the bridge onto the bed logs and
poles bend under            position In place.
machine weight - bedlogs
protect stream banks
BRIDGE CROSSING
Remember not to let the machine push any mud In the brook.
You can prevent thls'by remembering the following points:
1. Select a crossing site that has firm ground.
2. Make sure It's as level and as viell- drained as possible.
3. Additional pole bridges or brush can be used to maintain your approaches
and prevent rutting.
4. If brush Is necessary use hardwood brush or spruce tops.
S. For repeated crossings add nevw materlal as the brush mat wears down.
6. When working on a wet site add more brush further back on the forwarder trail
or use additional pole bridges over mud holes.
BRIDGE REMOVAL
Once crossings have been completed the brldge Is moved to roadside or a ther site.
Leave the bed logs In place to avoid disturbing the stream.



OZ AGREEMET    ST. MARY'S RIVER FORESTRY WILDLIFE PROJECT
FCO FONESTRY                                           PROE
F:DEVELOMENTA 
Stream Protection                             S
_ G -   5i   SMRP .0008                                      May, 1992
MUD LOG
Sometimes on forestry operations, run-off from rainfall can collect In forwarder trails
creating muddy ruts. In these cases, the mud log Is an effective method to divert water
and mud out of the forwarder track onto the forest floor. Slit Is filtered out before the
water reaches the stream so that fish habitat Is not damaged.
SELE5CTING A MUD LOG
The mud log should be about 12-14 Inches (30-35 cm) In diameter and about 16 feet
(about 5 m) long. The log should be from a large low-quality tree. If no large trees are
available, a bundle of 3-4 smaller diameter poles tied together can be used as a mud log.
2H;tf6irwarder Z                    INSTALLING A MUD LOG
1. The place where you Install a mud log
should be on a machine trail close to
downhill                              where the water Is entering and where the
side                                 ground slopes to one side.
1\ ~mud'X
09 _   log    g2. Install the log before you begin forwarding.
3. Using the blade of the machine, doze a
cross-drain at a 30-45 degree angle to the
trail about 6 feet wide (1.8 m), one foot
deep and 16 feet (about 5 m) long. This
cross~ffit 1                          cross-drain will help divert the water and
drain  -,1        Q s  /             form a settling pond for silt. The cross-
drain Is made by a series of short pushes
in the same direction as the trail.



4. Place the mud log in the cross-drain
against the pushed up material. The large
end of the log should be at the downhill
,-\ .  /^tB /  iend of the drain.
Once Installed mud and water can not be
carried up and over the log. Instead mud will
flow along the log and out of the cross-drain
onto the forest floor.
mud log      r
*  _         NOTE: In an unusually wet situation mud
Ns  ;teecK\\+                     logs might have to be Installed at sveral
locations along the forwarding trall to
pushed up                        prevent water from flowing down the trail.
material      \
mud and water
In crossdrain
forwarder trail
Remember - the goal Is to prevent water from running In the forwarder trail-
plailng a mud log before you develop ruts on forwarding operations Is Important.
Here's some Imrportant Rolnts to remember:
1. Install mud logs early before rutting.
2. If large logs are not available use a bundle of smaller logs.
3. In some sItuatIons one mud log Isn't enough- use mud logs
wherever you need them to keep the trail dry.
4. Mud logs are especially Important on traIls leading to water crossings.



ANNEX V                    BELARUS
Forest Development Project
Wetand Forestry Environmental Review
on Forested Wetlands
tinerary of wetlands-forestry environmental review mission
Novembar                    ACTIVIZT7S
1993
DaLte:
Mon. 8.  * Arrival in Minsk.
Xntroduction and discussion of the ER
mission itenerary with Dr. Yuriy A.
Vyazovich, Academy of Science.
Tue. 9.  * Attended the morning session of the
International Blodiversity Conference at the
Academy of Science.
P.m.        Academy of Science: Meeting with the
institute director Mr. I_van I Lishtvan and
colleagues.
p.m.        State Committee for Ecoloqy: Meeting with
the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Anatoly
Dorofeev and other representatives of the
Committee.
Evening    Evening reception at the Academy of Science.
Wed. 10.  * Academy of Science: Meeting with
a.rn.      representatives of State Committee for
Ecology and Academy of Science.
Meeting with the Chairman, Mr. A. Banad,
Byelorussian Society of Hunters and
Fishermen.
p.m.        Ministry of Forestry: Meeting with Mr. N.
xuzmenkov, Head of Department and
* colleagues. Dr. L. Zastensky, Professor and
Head of Department, Ministry of Education
attended the meeting.
Thu. 11.  * Volozhin Forest Enterprrise: Field trip
arranged by MinFor and meeting with Mr. V.
Borshtch, Director of the Forest Enterprise.
The excursion was supervised by Mr. S.
Vasl2y, Forest Engineer.
Fri. 1. * Smolevichi Forest EnterDrise: Field trip to
Usyazhsky Forest arranged by MinFor and
supervised by Dr. V. Chisty, Chief Forester.
Sat, 13. * Berezinskv Biosphere Reserve: Two-days
Sun, 14 * field trip arranged by State Committee for
Ecology. Meeting with Mr. V. Gonchar. The
excursion to the Reserve was supervised by
Mr. v. Arnolblk and Mr. V. Ivkovich both
ecologists.
Mon, 1 * St*te Committee fr Ecoloov: Meeting with
a.m.       Mr. Anatoly Dorofeev and representatives of
the Committee.
p.m.         Departure from Minsk.



