Page  1
May 15, 1995
His Excellency Pavel Dik
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
House of Gove=ent
Nezalegnosti Square
Minsk, Republic of Belarus
Your Excellency:
Re:
Loan No. 3741 BY (Forestry DeveloT)ment Project) - Amendments
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Agricultural Development Project) dated 
August 25, 1994 between the Republic of Belarus (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), and to our 
discussions concerninc, proposed amendments to the Loan Agreement.
     We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to the amendments to the Loan 
Agreement set forth in the Annex hereto.
     Please confirm your agreement, on behalf of the Borrower, to the foregoing 
by signing and datinc, the form of confirmation on the attached copy of this 
letter and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
Basil Kavalsky
Director, Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
Attachment
CONFIRMED:
BELARUS
Pavel Dik, 
Minister of Finance
Authorized Representative
Date:  June 13, 1995
ANNEX
AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT
(3741-BY Forestry Development Project)
1.
In Section 4.02 new sub-Section (e) is created to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall prepare, before December 31 of every year, in which 
forest areas included in the pest eradication control program under Part A. IO of 
the Project were treated, a post-treatment environmental assessment for such 
areas."
2.
In Section 4.02 new sub-Section (f) is created to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall prepare, before December 31 of every year, a public 
information campaign program about the pest eradication control program under 
Part A.10 of the Project with timetable for implementation acceptable to the 
Bank."
3.
In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 the disbursing percentages for the following 
Page  2
categories are replaced as follows:
For category (4)                      62%
For categories (2), (5)(c) and 5(d)   100%
4.
In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 under Category (1) a new sub-category (a) is 
created to read as follows:
"(a) for Part A. 1 0                 1,200,000 
of the Project"
5.
In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 Category 1 is changed to read as follows: 
"(1) Goods, equipment
and materials
for all parts of
the Project except
Part A.10"
6.
In paragraph 1 of Schedule I under Category 2 a new sub-category  (a)  is  
created  to  read
as follows:
"(a) for Part A.1O                     200,000
of the Project"
7.
In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 Cateaory 2 is changed to read as follows:
"Technical assistance              3,200,000
for all parts
of the Project
except Part A.10"
8.
In paragraph I of Schedule I under Category (5) a new sub-category (e) is 
created to read as follows:
" (e) for Part A.10 of               100,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures"
9.
In paragraph 4 of Schedule I new sub-paragraph (f) is created to read as 
follows:
"(f)
for Category 1 (a), after November 30 of each calendar year, 
prior to the presentation by the Borrower of pre-spraying 
environmental assessment for the following calendar year 
acceptable to the Bank".
10.
In Part A of Schedule 2 a new paragraph 10 is created to read as follows:
"10.
Program for pest eradication: provision of equipment for the control 
of the "nun moth" and other insects on about 60,000 ha of forest stands, 
pre-spraying environmental assessment, post-environmental assessment for the 
program and public information campaign.
11.
Schedule 4 is replaced by new Schedule 4 to read as follows:
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
Page  3
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Grouping of contracts
(a)
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
(c)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods/works estimated to cost $1,700,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, and goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased $200,000 
equivalent or less per contract and from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$600,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods/works which should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract are of proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review bv the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and the contracts procured under the procedures 
set forth in Parts C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  4
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executin- Agency" published by the 
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based 
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval 
of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank 
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) 
sinale-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical 
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
