Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3741 BY
Loan Agreement
(Forestry Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 25, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3741 BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"FMIS" means the Forest Management Information System to be developed for 
the purposes of the Project;
(b)
"The Kirov Institute" means the S. M. Kirov Technological Institute in 
Minsk or any successor thereto;
(c)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established and 
maintained by the Borrower with the Ministry of Forestry or any successor thereto for 
the purposes of implementation of the Project;
(d)
"Prototype Fund" means the separate entity created as investment fund 
under the applicable law of the Borrower and under the administration of the Ministry 
of Forestry, for the purposes of prototype development and testing of forestry 
equipment in cooperation with the local industry;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(f)
The Scientific and Technical Council (STC) or any successor thereto with 
the same scope of activities is the body designated by the Ministry of Forestry as the 
advisory oversight and governing body for the scientific, technical and research 
activities of the Ministry of Forestry.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of forty-one million nine 
hundred thousand dollars ($41,900,000), being  the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into,  and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
Page  3
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year." 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Forestry with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, accounting, environmental 
and forestry practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of implementation of the Project the Borrower shall 
maintain a project implementation unit (PIU) within the Borrower's Ministry of 
Forestry, which will be at all times headed by a Project Director and Project Manager 
with qualifications, terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank, who 
shall be assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Page  4
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than three months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994, issue the relevant 
decrees and regulations to further facilitate the liberalization of international 
trade with wood and wood products in a manner agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish, by December 31, 1994 a trading facility for 
wood, wood products and the related services with Articles of Association, policies 
and supporting regulations agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall establish, by October 31, 1994 a stumpage and royalty 
policy for wood as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, which need not affect 
direct budgetary support for the Ministry of Forestry, for implementation beginning 
January 1, 1995.
(d)
The Borrower shall issue or caused to be issued, before December 31, 1994 
the relevant decrees and regulations for the further liberalization of the domestic 
Page  5
market in wood and wood products except for the procurement of wood and wood products 
required under the system of state orders, in a manner agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the PIU referred to in Section 3.01 (c) has been 
established with staff and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, including the 
appointment of a Project Director and a Project Manager, and the selection of the 
procurement and project management consultants, and that the operating budget for the 
Project for 1994 has been made available by the Borrower to the  Ministry of Forestry.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
House of Government
Minsk
Republic of Belarus
Telex:
252 125 GKVES
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA) (FTCC)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By /s/ Vladimir Gontcharenok
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavilsky
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
   Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Goods, equipment          16,400,000         100% of foreign
    and materials                                    expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory
                                                     cost) and 90%
                                                     of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
(2)     Technical                  4,700,000         100% of foreign
    assistance                                       expenditures
(3)     Training                   2,900,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
(4)     Forestry program for       6,300,000         100% of foreign
    Parts A.1 and A.3                                expenditures
    of the Project
(5) Special services:
    (a)  for Part A.9 of             200,000        100% of foreign
         the Project                                expenditures
    (b)  for Part B.1 of           1,400,000        100% of foreign
         the Project                                expenditures
    (c)  for Part B.2 of           1,800,000        100% of foreign
         the Project                                expenditures
    (d)  for Part B.4 of           2,000,000        100% of foreign
         the Project                                expenditures
(6)    Civil works for             2,400,000        100% of foreign
       Part A.5 of the                              expenditures and
       Project                                      90% of local
                                                    expenditures
(7)    Unallocated                 3,800,000
       TOTAL                      41,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  7
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and  services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures." 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and 
services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no disbursement shall be 
made:
(a)
for Category 4 prior to the Borrower and the Bank agreeing on the 
determination of the standard costs for intensive silviculture operations; 
(b)
for Category 5 (a) before the approval by the Borrower of a program 
acceptable to the Bank for the Wetlands Forests Monitoring System and Wetlands Forests 
Management;
(c)
for Category 5 (b) prior to the approval by the Bank of the work plan for 
the budget and hardware purchase for the needs of FMIS;
(d)
for Category 5 (c) prior to the approval by the STC as defined in Section 
1.01 (f) of the annual research program for the respective calendar year with 
expenditures under the Project as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, including 
the contribution by the Borrower from specified
budgetary sources; and
(e)
for Category 5 (d) before the establishment of the Prototype Fund as 
defined in Section 1.01 (d) of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to introduce 
economically and environmentally sound practices in the forestry sector, to improve 
the forest resource management, and to increase the economic value of standing tree 
stock, and to achieve open market pricing for  wood and wood products, liberalize 
domestic  and international trade in such products, prepare the Ministry of Forestry 
for the privatization of the forestry sector and effect real price increases in the 
stumpage fees.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improved Forest Productivity
 
1.
Intensified Silviculture: carrying out an incremental thinning program on 
230,000 ha over a thirty-six months implementation period (1995 to 1998).
2.
Forestry Equipment: provision of equipment necessary for the intensification of 
silviculture.
3.
Pruning Pilot Program: carrying out a pilot/demonstration program of 5,000 ha of 
young forest (20 years or less), and 5,000 ha of older forest, with the intention of 
testing the managerial and financial feasibility of producing knot-free "clearboard" 
pine logs.
4.
Harvest Mechanization: investment in spare parts and prolonging the life of 
existing machinery until the introduction of light mechanization.
5.
Seed Processing and Storage Facilities: carrying out of an expanded program to 
upgrade the genetic quality of replanted areas and establishment of a seed processing 
and storage facility near Minsk, with two satellite facilities near the towns of Gomel 
and Glubokoe.
6.
Fire Protection: provision and improvement of the fire fighting equipment and 
communications network; fire-fighters' protective clothing against smoke and 
Page  8
radioactivity; and personal radionuclide dosimeters for the fire-fighters.
7.
Air Pollution Monitoring: provision of equipment for forest air pollution 
monitoring for better diagnosis of the causes of defoliation and for soil and foliar 
analyses.
8.
Radiation Monitoring System: provision of equipment for radiation-health 
monitoring system for the control and certification of the wood products and the 
workers engaged in their production.
9.
Wetlands Forestry Monitoring: completion of species inventory in the wetlands, 
and establishment of wetlands database and Wetlands Forestry Management Program; 
design and establishment of a Wetlands Forest Monitoring System monitoring the impact 
of forestry activities water and soil pollutants; preparatory studies for special 
wetlands conservation areas; and training in regulatory and conservation enforcement 
in the wetlands for the Ministry of Forestry and other relevant government agencies of 
the Borrower.
Part B:
Technical Assistance and Institution Building
 
1.
Forestry Management Information System (FMIS): transfer of all forestry 
inventory data to a new FMIS for use with personal computers and transfer of 
computer-based information to individual enterprises and local administrative 
sub-divisions.
2.
Forestry Research and Development: support of the contract research activities 
in the FRI under a program approved by the Ministry of Forestry.
3.
Forestry Education and Manpower Planning: development by the Kirov Institute of 
curricula meeting the European standards for temperate zone forests and reflecting 
ecology-based approaches to sustainable forestry management, biodiversity and forestry 
conservation, and of a Forestry Education Strategic Plan.
4.
Prototype Development and Testing: establishment and financing of a Prototype 
Fund, under the administration of the Ministry of Forestry, for local industries 
involved in prototype development and testing for internationally competitive forestry 
equipment.
5.
Training: training for: (i) private sector harvesting contractors in both the 
technology of harvesting, the required compliance standards, and in small business 
management; (ii) Ministry of Forestry staff in new harvesting methods and standards; 
(iii) Ministry of Forestry staff in preparation for privatization of the enterprises 
of the Ministry; and (iv) for Ministry of Forestry staff in their altered future role 
primarily as forestry resource managers and regulators.
6.
Forestry Strategic Plan: preparation of a plan for the short-term planning 
requirements for project activities as well as the ecological assessments of the 
proposed changes in forestry management, research priorities, manpower planning, and 
market assessments of future opportunities for the Borrower's wood and wood products.
7.
Project Implementation Unit Technical Assistance: provision of procurement 
consultancy and PIU management systems advice. Improving institutional capacity for 
successful project implementation and strengthening of the institutional basis within 
the Ministry of Forestry for
a possible follow-up project.
8.
Other Technical Assistance: provision of international advisory services for 
specialized topics, including the introduction of an adequate cost accounting system; 
the computerization of Ministry of Forestry regional level accounts, efficiency 
studies of the enterprises  pre-privatization; project auditing; advice on the pending 
forestry legislation; foreign language training; and other topics as may be agreed 
with the Bank from time to time.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Page  9
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1999
through October 15, 2008
2,095,000
 
And on April 15, 2009
2,095,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                
0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                
0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  
0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               
0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                
1.00
    maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no  relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for the works shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Belarus may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees can be supplied by a limited 
number of specialized suppliers, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers from at least three 
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract up to the aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three qualified suppliers eligible under 
the guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary and specialized 
nature may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works procured under the 
procedures set forth in Part A.1, C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of  The Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to  Ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants and Special Services
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of special assignments, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants and specialists whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (Consultants' Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the  Terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain arrangements, as agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank, for carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project by the entities designated in 
said Parts as responsible for the carrying out of the programs thereunder and for the 
overall coordination and supervision of the same, including through the establishment 
and maintenance for this purpose a Project Implementation Unit, referred to in Section 
1.01 (c) of this Agreement, with staff and other resources satisfactory to the Bank.  
The Project Implementation Unit shall complete a preliminary Project Implementation 
plan, as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and submit it to the Bank, before 
November 1, 1994, and a detailed Project Implementation Plan to be compiled before 
June 30, 1995, and revised annual plans in conjunction with the Bank by November 1 of 
each year.
2.
The Borrower shall (a) prepare a detailed program of forestry and wood 
industries sector economic reform with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, 
Ministry of Forestry and Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, 
Page  12
the Anti-Monopoly Commission, the State Property Committee and other relevant agencies 
of the Borrower by May 1, 1995; and
(b)
annually update the program and implementation timetable for the 
following 12 months period based on the results of the previously implemented reform 
measures, in coordination and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, not later than May 1 
of each year.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) simplify the requirements, regulations and practices for 
issuing business licenses for forestry and wood industry enterprises and contractors 
in a manner acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1994; and (b) by December 31, 1994 
present timetable, acceptable to the Bank, for the implementation of privatization 
assistance program by the relevant agencies of the Borrower for the commercialization 
and subsequent privatization of the enterprises in the wood processing sector, 
including through the applicable voucher privatization programs and new  Corporate 
governance standards of the Borrower.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) Prepare and submit for approval by the Bank terms of 
reference for the Forestry Strategic Plan (FSP) not later than June 30, 1994 and 
select and approve the consultants for the plan not later than September 30, 1994; and 
(b) propose, three months after the completion of the Forestry Strategic Plan an 
action plan, based on the FSP's recommendations for the strengthening of the forestry 
and environmental protection regulatory and supervisory functions of the Ministry of 
Forestry, an implementation timetable for the plan for agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall prepare and submit for approval by the Bank a draft agreement 
for the services of the contractors selected by the Borrower for the FMIS software, 
and the work plan and budget for the FMIS development, including the procurement of 
the necessary hardware, by November 30, 1994.
6.
The Borrower through the STC shall review or caused to be reviewed the annual 
research programs to be contracted by the Ministry of Forestry with the research 
contractors and the implementation of the programs for every calendar year under the 
approved annual contracts, and the annual budget for the research programs for the 
following year, not later than November 1 of each calendar year, and submit the 
programs and the budgets for approval by the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall prepare and submit for approval by the Bank, not later than 
June 30 of each year, an annual training program for the forest enterprises and the 
private sector contractors in the forestry and wood sector.
8.
The Borrower shall establish by December 1, 1994 the Prototype Fund referred to 
in Section 1.01 (e) of this Agreement, as an entity registered under the applicable 
laws and regulations of the Borrower with articles of association and lending 
investment and appraisal criteria and  procedures agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and submit the documents required for the establishment and the operation of the 
Fund for approval by the Bank by September 30, 1994.
 SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  13
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
