                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25704

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-35910)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32.7 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                         PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                                 FOR A

                         POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT




                                              June 20, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective As of April 3, 2003)

                        Currency Unit = Kina (PGK)
                           PGK 0.272 = US$ 1.00
                             US$ 1.00 = PGK 8.89

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1    December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AMS       Area Medical Store
AusAid    Australian Agency for International Development
CHC       Community Health Clinics
DHS       Demographic and Health Survey
DOFP      Department of Finance and Planning
GOVPNG    Government of Papua New Guinea
MCH       Maternal and Child Health
MCTA      Managing Contractor
NDOH      National Department of Health
NEC       National Executive Council
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NPC       National Population Council
NPO       National Planning Office
PFPP      Population and Family Planning
PHRB      Population and Human Resources
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PNG       Papua New Guinea
PNGFPA    Papua New Guinea Family Planning Association
PCG       Population Coordinating Group
PPU       Population Planning Unit
PPU       Population Policy Unit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
STD       Sexually Transmitted Disease
SWAP      Sector Wide Approach
UNFPA     United Nations Population Fund

                      Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum (EAPVP)
                    Country Director:     Xian Zhu (EACNF)
                      Sector Director:    Emmanuel Jimenez (EASHD)
                   Task Team Leader:      Janet Nassim (HDNHE)

                                   PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                                PG-POPULATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P004399                                                      Project Name: PG-POPULATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Janet Nassim                                                TL Unit: HDNHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PG-POPULATION PROJECT                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-35910
   Country/Department: PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Population and reproductive health (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P); Fighting
                            communicable diseases (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/30/1991                                        Effective: 09/29/1993              12/22/1993
   Appraisal:    04/07/1992                                            MTR: 11/03/1996                11/03/1996
    Approval:    04/13/1993                                         Closing: 06/30/1999               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF PNG/DEPT OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:      AusAID and ADB

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din-Kassum                                 Gautam Kaji
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                                       Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:            Emmanuel Jimenez                                    Clifford Gilpin
Team Leader at ICR:        Janet Nassim                                        Michael Porter
ICR Primary Author(s): Elizabeth Wiley; Christopher
                           James Smith; Janet Nassim


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The key objective of the Population and Family Planning Project (PFPP) was to help the Government
implement its population policy announced, after more than a decade of politically sensitive deliberations,
in March 1991. To achieve this goal the project was designed to create the capacity to bring the rate of
population growth into balance with the country's potential for socio-economic development and, in
particular, human resources development, and to improve the health of mothers and children through
greater use of family planning. The more specific objectives were to: (i) develop the institutional capacity
to foster and manage a comprehensive population program; (ii) deliver effective family planning services;
(iii) generate a greater demand for family planning; and (iv), mobilize public awareness and support for the
program through government and non-government channels. These objectives reflected essential priorities
for population strategies in Papua New Guinea. They were consistent with government planning and needs
delineated in an ESW, which prioritized population as one of its principal recommendations.

This innovative and relatively complex project was to be implemented through institutions that had limited
capacity. The political and financial infrastructure needed for such a large project was not necessarily
available. However, commitment by all donors and the government of Papua New Guinea (GOV PNG)
was seen to be a mitigating factor that would lead PNG to the full implementation of a national family
planning program.

It is important to highlight a key feature of the project. This project was designed as a multi-donor project
including the World Bank, Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), and Asian
Development Bank (ADB). Created as an early Sector Wide Approach, the project, however, was designed
like a parallel co-financing project, an issue that complicated its implementation. The project was an
important innovative step in providing needed support to a relatively sensitive area in a coordinated
manner.

The original objectives of the project remained unchanged during implementation. In addition to its original
goal the project also provided a platform for addressing an emerging priority concern with Sexually
Transmitted Diseases (STDs) and particularly HIV.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Family Planning Service Delivery: US$ 14.5 million Total (US$ 3.7 million Bank-funded).
The first category, family planning, included: (a) upgrading of selected health facilities to provide effective
family planning services; (b) operational support for fixed facility and outreach services including
supervision and monitoring; (c) training in clinical and communication skills both in-country and
externally; and (d) incremental staffing to enhance program management and supervision capacity.

Component 2: Program Support: US$ 18.2 million Total (US$ 3.2 million Bank-funded).
The second group of activities were designed to build long-term capacity for the population program and
included: (a) supply and distribution of contraceptives and related drugs; (b) training, technical assistance
and financial support for Non-Government Organizations (NGOs); (c) development of a health and family
planning promotion unit; (d) a sample national demographic survey and piloting of a provincial data
system; (e) operational and behavioral research and research training; and (f) program management.




                                                      - 2 -

The project design called for each of the components to be financed by different combinations of the three
donors and the government. The Bank's inputs for Component 1 were comprised primarily of civil works
(US$ 2.96 million or 80 percent of the total Bank inputs for this component), with other inputs being:
consultant services (US$ 0.33 million or 9 percent), training (US$ 0.22 million or 6 percent), and
equipment (US$ 0.19 million or 5 percent). For Component 2, the Bank's financial inputs were comprised
primarily of contraceptives and drugs (40 percent of the total Bank inputs for this component), as well as
civil works (24 percent), consultant services (20 percent), equipment (5 percent), studies (9 percent), and
training (2 percent). AusAID provided a majority of the funding for technical assistance. The remaining
portions of the components were financed by AusAID, ADB and the government.

The design of both components was clearly linked to the objectives listed above. The loan focused on
health and population priorities for the country, providing needed support in the areas of infrastructure,
capacity building, technical assistance, pharmaceuticals, program management and research. Both of the
components drew on in-country capacity, from utilizing NGOs working in the field to capacity building for
current staff, while also supplementing those areas by providing a stronger framework for population
policy and programming.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project had several extensions. In June 1999, the closing date was extended to December 1999. The
next extension was done in 2 stages. The first stage was a three month extension from December 1999 to
March 31, 2000, to enable completion of the plan of action needed (pre-condition) for a subsequent
extension. Upon receipt of a revised action plan acceptable to the Bank, the second stage of the extension
was presented and the project was then extended from March 31, 2000 to March 31, 2002. This extension
enabled delayed construction in the original six provinces to be completed and the expansion of the scope of
the project to activities with the objectives of the project to six additional provinces. At the Government's
request the project was further extended in March 2002 for 6 months to September 2002 to enable
construction in and equipment of a few remaining facilites to be completed as well as to enable
pharmaceutical and contraceptive purchases to be finalized. During each extension the project objectives
remained unchanged as did components eligible for financing, which were construction of CHCs and
MHCs, and the provision of STD drugs and pharmaceuticals, however the scope of the project was
expanded from six, to include twelve of PNG's fourteen provinces, in second extension period.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory. The SAR documented the project and its background well, and the
work program was clearly relevant to the needs of the country. As stated above, the project was aligned
with the ESW, Management, Manpower, Money: A Select Review of Health and Population in Papua
New Guinea, which prioritized population as one of the country's main concerns. The project responded to
the broader needs of the country as well; including employment, poverty and geographic distribution of the
population, and, more specifically, health indicators such as the extremely high maternal mortality rate, and
the growing population.

The multi-donor design was innovative, but it also contributed to the complexity of the project. Essentially
there were three aspects of the multi-donor design that deserve discussion: (a) design of the project, (b)
how the donors worked together and (c) financing. In reference to design (a), the project was rather
complex. For example, there were thirteen Government agencies involved in implementation and three
funding sources; the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and AusAID. The principal Government
implementing agencies were: the NDOH (National Department of Health) for the ADB-financed
components financed and NDOH and DOFP (Department of Finance and Planning) for the components
financed by AusAID and the World Bank. The way in which the donors worked together (b), however, was



                                                      - 3 -

much more positive. There were joint missions and even after the formal close of the AusAID and ADB
projects, the donors worked together during the implementation of World Bank extension. Coordination of
the donor reports could have been improved. In reference to financing (c), many assumptions were made in
the project design concerning flow of resources and connections between each funding agency and the
government. In reality, these assumptions did not always come to fruition. The degree of coordination
required and the different approaches adopted by bilateral and multilateral agencies appear to have been
under-estimated during design.

One of the most positive aspects of the mulit-donor strategy was the fact that it responded directly to the
needs of the government, which requested that the Bank work with other donors as it felt it did not have the
capacity to easily deal with fragmented efforts by a number of donors.

Major risks of the project were candidly presented in the Loan and Project Summary of the SAR. Key
concerns included the government's implementation capacity, supply of contraceptives, the possibility of
further decentralization within the GOVPNG, and the ability of the GOVPNG to provide the resources that
were outlined in the proposal (which amounted to $9 million, a 27 percent share of total financing). The
capacity of the health system at the time was also of concern. Reform was needed, and the question remains
whether or not this type of project should have been created with such limited capacity. While the project
design took steps to address these issues, there were things that could not be foreseen at the time of project
preparation: (i) the severity of the economic crisis, (ii) the severe depreciation of the Kina, (iii) the extent
and impact of Government's overall worsening financial position; (iv) and the extensive further
decentralization which took place in 1995 with the enactment of the Organic Law on Provincial, and Local
Level Government which fractured the bureaucratic relationship between National line agencies such of
NDOH and provincial and local level Governments.

The project team took great care to involve and get the endorsement of those on the ground (such as the
NGOs) and to mitigate challenges associated with the sensitivity of the topic.            For example, other
organizations, such as the Council of Churches endorsed the population planning policy, and even the title
was thoroughly considered and discussed.

Similar to other projects during this time period, the SAR did not specify clear output or outcome
indicators. Additionally, although a major milestone to create a family planning policy, the type of family
planning approach that was used was very traditional. A more extensive debate as to the relevance of the
approach (i.e., semi-vertical family planning program versus a more integrated model) and other options
might have better served the country and the project.

In summary, considering the state of the economy at the inception of the project and the level of
commitment of donors and Government, the inputs and design seem to have been appropriate, although
ambitious.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of objectives and outputs under the project was Satisfactory.

The key project objective to help the Government implement its population policy announced in March
1991 was satisfactorily achieved. The project, although having faced a great number of challenges, was at
least marginally able to create capacity and improve the health of women and children in PNG. The plan
for the project was that it would contribute to a second externally-funded family planning and population



                                                    - 4 -

program within the country. At the end of the project, the government implemented a population policy,
although without the use of external funding. PNG Government also extended its implementation of a
sector wide approach (SWAP) to donor support in the health sector near the end of the project, creating a
strategic implementation plan.      These were both major steps that contributed to the capacity of the
government to institutionalize family planning activities and to collectively address emerging health issues
(e.g., AIDS).

It is difficult to determine precisely to what extent the project was able to bring the rate of population
growth into balance with the country's potential for socio-economic development and, in particular, human
resources development. In 1997, outcome and output indicators were retrofitted to the project, at the
suggestion of the World Bank. The outcome indicators are outlined in Annex 1. As is often the case, the
national survey data show less positive results than do other sources. In review of these outcomes, other
considerations must be taken into account: the degree of economic instability during the financial crisis, the
challenges inherent in partnering with other donors, and the lack of data available in the country for
baseline and current estimates. It should also be noted that changes in some of the outcome indicators,
such as infant and maternal mortality, take many years to occur. Therefore, at the current time, it is
difficult to tell to what extent the program had long-term impact. It should also be noted here that the
demographic survey completed in 1996 was particularly successful. Not only did it provide some baseline
data, it also provided critical input for policy and program development. A follow-up evaluation in 2006
when data is available from the next Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) that could be compared to the
1996 DHS would seem appropriate.

In spite of all the implementation problems encountered throughout the project period and the need for a
longer time before evaluation of indicators is useful, early qualitative data from the health information
system in the NDOH indicated some positive results. Furthermore, it is believed that the impact of the
project was felt nearly exclusively by the poor and that general awareness concerning family planning was
increased.

4.2 Outputs by components:
One major element that should be considered when reviewing this project and the outputs is the capacity of
the health system in general. As discussed in the quality at entry section (3.5), the overall design of the
project has to be seen in the light of the health system at the time, which was in need of reform.

Output indicators were established retroactively covering both components of the project. The retroactive
output indicators that were fitted to the project, however, are not reported in this document. Reliable
baseline and post-project data were not available, and not all of the indicators related directly to the World
Bank. Therefore, the following information relating specifically to the Bank-funded components was
utilized to evaluate the outputs of this project.

Component 1: Family Planning Service Delivery

Although some elements were problematic during implementation, notably procurement and construction
delays and turnover of staff, by project close performance in this component was Satisfactory.

The family planning service delivery component included the following elements: (a) upgrading of selected
health facilities to provide effective family planning services; (b) operational support for fixed facility and
outreach services including supervision and monitoring; (c) training in clinical and communication skills
both in-country and externally; and (d) incremental staffing to enhance program management and
supervision capacity. For this part of the project, the Bank's inputs were comprised primarily of civil


                                                       - 5 -

works (US$ 2.96 million or 80 percent of the total Bank inputs for this component), with other inputs
being: consultant services (US$ 0.33 million or 9 percent), training (US$ 0.22 million or 6 percent), and
equipment (US$ 0.19 million or 5 percent).

Overall, the completion of the major elements of the component (such as civil works, training, and capacity
building) were successful, although implementation was problematic in the context of the difficulties
associated with high staff turnover, financial instability and political and social unrest. The project was
extended several times, initially to address implementation delays and later for the government to extend the
provision of community health clinics (CHCs) and maternity health clinics (MHCs) into six provinces that
were not originally part of the plan.

At inception the project aimed to upgrade an existing 56 health facilities in six provinces. Although
significantly delayed, by project close 51 (91 percent) of these facilities had been completed and of these 43
(84 percent) were in regular use. The five sites where construction or renovation was not undertaken were
cancelled during the project due to technical difficulties associated with the sites, such as drainage and
flooding, or social unrest in the region. Further continuing social unrest, particularly in the Southern and
Western Highlands is the main reason the utilization rate of completed facilities was 84 percent at the time
of the ICR. The extension of the project allowed additional work to be undertaken at these sites in the
initial six provinces, adding bathroom and toilet facilities at each of the 51 sites.

The expansion into six new provinces aimed to expand the network of MHC and CHCs into remote areas
through the construction of 24 prefabricated facilities. Of these 20 (83 percent) were completed and
functional within two months of work commencing on the site. They were completed within budget and at
the close of the project greater than 80 percent were in full regular use, while the remaining 20 percent are
partially operational and excepted to be fully operational in June 2003 after the arrival of additional
furniture. This result is a significant achievement, particularly given the remoteness of many of the sites,
and is evidence that lessons learnt from experience with civil works in the original six provinces were
applied successfully. Of the remaining four facilities in Enga Province, two were completed within months
of project close (May 2003) and two will be completed by June 2003. These contracts are being financed
by the Government.

Thus by project close, the number of completed civil works projects for this component exceeded the
number planned at inception by 20 percent (71 completed facilities as opposed to the 56 envisaged), and
expanded community health and maternal health services to twelve provinces as opposed to the six
originally envisaged, with the majority of facilities being well-utilized.

In addition, AusAID, in their completion report for the project, notes that the training elements of the
project were particularly successful, augmenting the long-term effects of the program. AusAID reports a
baseline figure of 23 percent of field staff having any familiarity with modern contraceptive methods in the
early years of the project rising to 76 percent by late-1997 and near 100 percent by project close.

Component 2: Program Support

This component was marginally Satisfactory.

This second group of activities was designed to build long-term capacity for the population program and
included: (a) supply and distribution of contraceptives and related drugs; (b) training, technical assistance
and financial support for NGOs; (c) development of a health and family planning promotion unit; (d) a
sample national demographic survey and piloting of a provincial data system; (e) operational and


                                                      - 6 -

behavioral research and research training; and (f) program management. For this part of the project, the
Bank's financial inputs were comprised primarily of contraceptives and drugs (40 percent of the total Bank
inputs for this component), as well as civil works (24 percent), consultant services (20 percent), equipment
(5 percent), studies (9 percent), and training (2 percent).

Overall this component completed most of the planned activities. Contraceptives and other drugs were
provided and support was given to NGOs. The demographic survey completed through this component in
1996 was particularly successful. It filled not only a need for accurate demographic data on the country,
but it also provided a database for future initiatives in this area. The government is now planning a second
DHS, to follow 5 years after the 2000 census and 10 years after the initial DHS.

The health promotion part of the project, however, took a very long time to implement. Furthermore health
promotion activities were implemented at the national-level rather than provincial-level as originally
planned. This was partly due to the relatively low capacity at the provincial level and social unrest in the
provinces.

Pharmaceuticals and contraceptive supplies caused some of the most pronounced and often mentioned
problems. Stock-outs of pharmaceuticals were common; some were found to be beyond their expiration
dates. The bidding process in the first procurement of pharmaceutical and contraceptives was found not to
be compliant with World Bank procurement guidelines and the Government financed the contracts from its
own resources. Although measures were taken to improve the situation, procurement issues continued
throughout the project.

Additionally, the World Bank also funded a portion of the studies that were completed. Although the
quality and relevance of the reports varied widely, the better materials significantly increased the stock of
research data providing important contributions to the systematic study of population issues among various
cultural groups in PNG, for which research data had been scarce.

Bank funds went to support civil works, training, consultant services, and equipment, as well. The civil
works and training, as discussed in the description of the first component above, were largely successful,
although they took much longer than originally planned. The procurement of consultants, at times, was a
source of delays. The time needed for the recruitment of consultants postponed the initiation of key project
activities and delayed the effectiveness of the WB and ADB loans.

One aspect of the project that was a challenge for the Bank's implementation relates to the fact that
AusAID provided a majority of the funding for technical assistance. This, at times, hindered coordination
of some activities due to different timetables and/or incentives. Efforts were made from all those involved
to minimize such risks.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable to this project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable to this project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as Modest.

The original design of the project, to serve as the first phase of a medium-term externally-funded assistance



                                                      - 7 -

strategy, was not fully realized. However, the Government of PNG did decide to implement a population
policy (National Population Policy 2000 ­ 2010) at the end of the project without the use of external
funding.    Additionally, in 2002, after many iterations of the unit, a Population Coordinating Group
comprised of ten technical officers was formed to provide the secretariat role to the NPC and coordinate the
UNFPA-funded Population Policy and Development Project.             The formulation of the policy and the
continuance of the population unit indicate tangible institutional changes.

The factors which most constrained institutional impact were the frequency of departmental and ministerial
restructures, restructured decentralization, and continual changes in provincial administrations during the
life of the project.    A direct consequence of this frequent restructuring and changes in provincial
administrators was a high turnover of key staff which affected continuity in implementation and was further
aggravated by the introduction of inexperienced staff who had very limited understanding and no
institutional memory of the project. However, during the life of the project, human and financial resources
were, at times, well utilized, contributing to the institutional development impact, and AusAID, in their
completion report, notes that the training elements of the project were particularly successful, augmenting
the long-term effects of the program. The involvement of providers at the local, district and provincial
levels should further enhance the development impact of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A number of outside factors severely affected the implementation of the project, most notably
macroeconomic issues, the regional financial crisis and revised decentralization arrangements after 1995.
Additionally, due to civil unrest in some parts of the country, some of the civil works were carried out at a
slower pace than expected.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Disbursement and procurement posed a number of challenges for both the government and the
implementing agencies. For example, the project came to a virtual standstill in the mid-1990s when the
government froze funds. In addition, internal Government approval processes, especially for funding
approvals and for procurement approvals through the Central Tender Board, were protracted and caused
implementation delays. Contracting issues were also of concern, as the process of finalizing contracts often
took longer than expected.

Lack of adequate infrastructure (deteriorating roads) impacted the project's ability to complete all of the
civil works components in a timely manner. However, while it would appear reasonable to consider that
this should have been partly expected and planned for during project implementation, the rapid deteriation
in rural road infrastructure experienced since decentralization in 1995 and the the fiscal crisis has been
unprecedented.

Decentralization of the government during the implementation of the project and a structural adjustment
program that was instituted during the project posed some issues for implementation. During the life of the
project the Government approved the Medium Term Development Strategy 1997 ­ 2002 which meant a
shift in the allocation of Government resources and hence had implications on the Government's ability to
meet its counterpart requirements under the project. The new Organic Law on Provincial and local-level
Governments was also enacted which specified the transfer of key functions from the national level to the
provinces. Both of these reforms resulted in redirecting energy and time into reorganization and
downsizing.




                                                     - 8 -

There was also a delay in project implementation due to time lags in getting Cabinet approval and
authorization for the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As stated in Section 5.2, disbursement and procurement posed a number of challenges for both the
government and the implementing agencies. Later in the project delays in disbursement were experienced
because of the slow implementation of project activities and delays in submitting withdrawal applications
for expenditures already made. Withdrawal applications, at times stalled in the PIU in NDOH, were not
processed on a timely basis and in some cases not processed accurately. In addition, there were problems
with the special accounts that were set up due to government regulations and therefore, the Bank and the
other donors had to set up special Trust Accounts to facilitate the flow of funds.

Capacity of the implementing agency, including management and staff issues, were a major concern.
Management problems should be seen in the light of reductions and alterations in the civil service, limited
financial resources, and frequent departmental and ministry restructures however in general it is clear that
for most of the life of the project there were not enough project staff members available and often, the staff
that were available were inexperienced. Notations as to how project preparation was slower than expected
due to loss of staff in the PIU or how capacity building had been upset due to staff turnover are cited
throughout the project documentation. In 1995, UNFPA offered to fund two staff members, but the offer
was declined.      This concern was also echoed in frequent observations of poor coordination and
fragmentation of management responsibilities of project components.

The lack of a counterpart in the NDOH was considered a constraining factor for the project and decreased
the ability to optimally transfer skills. Appropriate counterparts could have enhanced the momentum and
sustainability of the project, while also providing continuity for the donors and the government.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The changes in financing reflect, mainly, the financial crisis, the devaluation of the Kina and delays in
initial implementation due to macro constraints. The 1994 crisis seriously delayed project and budget
activities within the country. The Government of PNG requested that the Bank expand project activities to
cover additional provinces.

Other than the main financial crisis, two main issues were (1) funding arrangements between the donors
and (2) lack of capacity within the government.

The key problems underlying the funding arrangements between the donors were associated with
fund-channeling and the trade-off between implementing the project on time or taking a longer time while
building government capacity.

Although continuing implementation of project activities was a good option, it was less than optimal for
dealing with public sector expenditure management issues. It also meant that full coordination of various
activities funded through grants, loans and from government was not achieved. AusAID was able to
negotiate a trust fund arrangement with the Government of PNG through the Managing Contractor
(MCTA) to continue project implementation during the worst of the crisis. Because of its perceived
effectiveness, this arrangement continued to the end of the project.

ADB defined the problems in the following manner: "Loan effectiveness has been substantially delayed by
the non-execution of the AusAID MOU and extensive conditions of loan effectiveness requested by the
World Bank, because of cross-effectivity requirements included in the loan agreement. In addition, the lack



                                                      - 9 -

of Government counterpart funds due to the economic crisis that hit the country in 1994-1995 resulted in
additional delays in starting implementation of the loan-funded components. Only the components funded
by a grant from AusAID were implemented on schedule." However, it should be noted that AusAID
components were implemented by an outside contractor and not by the Government.

In reference to other donor issues, the fact that the AusAID and ADB components ended before the World
Bank component created some challenges. As stated, in May 2000, the World Bank project was extended
to 30 September, 2002.       The project objectives remained unchanged as did components eligible for
financing, but the scope of the project was expanded from six, to include twelve of PNG's fourteen
provinces. During the extension of March 2000, the World Bank agreed to increase the financing ratio for
STD drugs and pharmaceuticals from 26% to 100%.

Due to slower than expected implementation, actual disbursements were lower than the yearly
disbursements projections. Many of the other issues highlighted elsewhere in this document (civil unrest
and complexity of the project design) also contributed to slowing the process of disbursement.
Disbursement became more pronounced as project implementation began to accelerate and the increasing
number of project activities was not matched with the capacity to generate accurate and complete
withdrawal applications from the ADB and the WB loans. This resulted in cash flow problems and tied up
needed foreign exchange.

Unfamiliarity with procurement and disbursement arrangements under the loans caused delays.

There were constant problems with bidding and procurement associated with pharmaceuticals. The Area
Medical Stores (AMS), due to inadequate infrastructure, were unable to handle peak shipments.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated as Unlikely.

As stated, the original design of the project, to serve as the first phase of a medium-term assistance
strategy, was not fully realized, although the Government of PNG decided to implement a population policy
at the end of the project without the use of external funding.

There were significant concerns about staffing and technical resources (such as the need for computer
applications for the pharmaceutical component, staff turnover, inexperience, etc.). Particularly, when the
Population Policy Unit (PPU) was dismantled in 2000, concerns were raised about the ability of the
government to sustain a program without a secretariat to follow up on the National Population Council's
(NPC) recommendation. However in 2002 a Population Coordinating Group, (PCG) comprised of ten
technical officers was formed to provide the secretariat role to the NPC and coordinate the UNFPA-funded
Population Policy and Development Project.

The rationale for the unsatisfactory rating revolves around the above-mentioned issues, as well as the fact
that financing remains a concern; data on the utilization of CHCs and MHCs is ad hoc and incomplete due
to social unrest in Southern and Western Highlands; and regular communication with remote provinces is
problematic. Additionally, the need for health system reform becomes evident. Without major changes that
will strengthen service delivery, a program such as this will not be easily sustainable. Hence, sustainability
will require actions that go beyond the scope of this project.




                                                     - 10 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the project activities were integrated into the regular operation of the department, the need for special
transition arrangements was not high. In the short-term, the project's achievements and sustainability will
be improved through sustaining, at a minimum:

o retention of service providers
o field supervision
o periodic training
o adequate supply of contraceptives and STD drugs
o maintenance of health facilities
o promotional and educational materials at facilities and community levels
o firm political and organizational commitment
o adequate budgetary support.

Most importantly, the government needs to ensure that health services, of which reproductive health is a
part, are reaching the target populations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending is rated as Satisfactory.

As the project was well-aligned with the SAR and other ESW that were performed before the beginning of
the project, the Bank's theoretical alignment in identification and appraisal of the mission is considered
appropriate. Additionally, the Bank led the project in response to the government's request. The design,
however, is of more concern as discussed in Section 3.5, as the project was a bit complex and donor
interactions were not well-defined.

A better recognition of the project's risks and key variables could have added value to the outcomes and
impact of the project. The World Bank recognized and addressed most of these issues; however better
controls for project management and the identification of key counterparts would have enhanced the
performance of each stakeholder as well as the flow of the overall project.

The quality and quantity of World Bank staff working on this project were also relevant. On almost every
mission, there were a number of people representing a range of expertise. The World Bank worked to
supplement the skills provided by the other donors.

Financially, the amount of lending seemed to be appropriate. More would have been disbursed without an
extension had there not been a devaluation of the Kina. Additionally, the amount set forth by the World
Bank for this project was correctly estimated as under $10 million from some of the earliest project
documents.

It should also be noted that loan effectiveness conditions took some time for the government to comply
with, and in fact the Bank waived part of the employment of consultants conditions.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision is rated as Satisfactory.




                                                    - 11 -

The major consideration in supervision of the project was that the Bank led this very difficult project
through to completion. Although the funding from the government was not always available and as there
were numerous challenges, the Bank made some important ­ and major ­ decisions, such as not to close the
project. Closing the project would have only affected the poor by leaving them with unfinished clinics and
unusable supplies of drugs and contraceptives.

Donor coordination was a constant challenge, but managed successfully. Considering the complexity of the
project, there were some major strongholds within the multi-donor system. Great attention was paid to
each of the other's components. For example the World Bank provided numerous inputs on the DHS, even
though this was not funded through the Bank and project coordination was assisted by ADB and AusAID
even after the end of their formal commitments to the PFPP. Additionally, flexibility between the partners
was an asset. In one instance, ADB allowed for more flexibility in the use of their undisbursed funds which
allowed financing of items in the health sector which otherwise would have been starved for funds
(pharmaceuticals and a few clinics).

Quality of supervision of the project appears to have varied throughout the life of the project. Generally,
implementation progress and problems were well documented. The performance ratings given in the PSRs
were also well documented and realistic and reflect the changing circumstances of the country.

An increased frequency of missions might have alleviated some of the challenges.               Almost every
implementation year (except for two), had at least two missions, as was designated in the project design. It
appears however, the GOV PNG wanted, and may have been better served by more frequent missions. In
practice, the intervals between missions at times were too long and, as it was stated in the project
documents, three missions a year might have been a better fit with the needs of PNG. It should also be
noted that the Bank's office that was opened during the life of the project was very thinly staffed and could
not provide much support to the implementing agency. Had there been stronger implementation support,
this could have helped.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account the ratings given to the Bank's lending and supervision performance, overall Bank
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance at preparation is rated as Satisfactory.

At the time of the preparation of the project, it was duly noted that the infrastructure and capacity of the
PNG Government was not great. However, at this time, government commitment was high, as population
was known to be a challenge to economic growth and social welfare. The commitment of the Government
of PNG was shown in that early recommendations relating to population made in the sector report were
quickly adopted by the Government; there was strong provincial level support; and the PNG Government
took a strong role in the establishment and structure of the NPC. In March of 1991, the adoption of the
national population policy by the National Executive Council (NEC) was a major development and placed
the issue on the national agenda. This commitment, however, was diminished when, during one of the
preliminary missions, the Department of Finance and Planning did not provide the strong endorsement of
the project that was expected. Additionally, there was turnover in project staff at all levels and the project
had a delay in start-up because of lack of counterpart funds. Although these were significant problems,
they should be seen in the light of the country capacity and context.



                                                    - 12 -

In summary, the Government of PNG responded satisfactorily to the project, although more could have
been accomplished.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the government during implementation is considered Satisfactory.

Although political commitment has been noted to have been high at preparation, it was variable throughout
the implementation period, although on balance, they were supportive. In several Bank supervision mission
reports, political commitment was noted as a high risk. But this was not true throughout the majority of the
project. For example, in requesting an extension of the project the Government indicated commitment and
belief in the project as evidenced by requesting an expanded scope with additional civil works to bring the
perceived benefits of the project to another six Provinces. Additionally, the Health Promotion component
was extended on the basis of a detailed work plan with specified outputs prepared by the Government.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency during implementation is considered Unsatisfactory.

One of the largest challenges facing the implementing agency throughout the project was the deployment
and maintenance of appropriate staffing levels. In general, it is stated throughout the project documents
that project staff struggled with declining direction, leadership, and motivation. For example, in the
construction of the civil works, a major problem was low morale among staff leading to lack of
supervision.    Along these same lines, job insecurity led some staff to accept job offers outside the
Department; and in 1999 the PIU of the NDOH was restructured leaving only one effective staff member.

The limited capacity of the NDOH was also stressed by its own restructuring with expected reductions in
civil service posts. The PPU in the NPO (National Planning Office) in Treasury was also consistently
understaffed during the project implementation period. To add to this, there were problems with the
appointment and retention of national counterparts. Another underlying issue is the variable capacities and
political commitment between provinces, specifically for reproductive health and generally for human and
social development.

Procurement and disbursement issues were also significant challenges for the implementing agency, at
times. Unfamiliarity with procurement arrangements, lack of experience and inadequate support and
supervision and seemingly constant problems with bidding and procurement associated with
pharmaceuticals slowed both of the components of the project.         In addition, the medical equipment
procured through national/international shopping exceeded the permissible ceiling in the Loan Agreement,
and ceiling limits on cost of proposed civil works were exceeded for force account (day labor) and selective
tendering.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower is considered marginally Satisfactory.

This project was identified as a problem project by the Government and by senior management at the
World Bank. Although there was discussion as to whether or not it should be closed; it was felt by all that
it was a worthwhile project that would only hurt the poor if not completed. By the end of the project, even
with the many challenges, significant progress was made due to effort on the part of the Government;
flexibility, cooperation, and commitment among donors; easing of some of the factors in the project
environment (the financial crisis); and intensive follow-up to recommendations of joint donor missions. For



                                                     - 13 -

this reason, and as the project achieved many of its original objectives, the overall performance of the
borrower is considered Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Most of the lessons learned from this project would be relevant for a number of other projects and sectors
within the Bank, as Bank operations are constantly moving in the direction of partnerships and SWAP.
These lessons were delineated by Bank staff, AusAID and ADB. Particularly:

Project Design
o Indicators are important to assess progress at all levels
o Need to pay special attention to institutional capacity issues to ensure smooth implementation.
o Coordination of multi-funding agencies
     § Moremanageableforgovernmentthanseparateprojects
     § Clearprinciplesfordonorcoordinationneedtobeestablishedatonset
     § Harmonizationoffundchanneling,procurement,andreportingarrangementswouldhelpalot,
          especially in places of limited capacities
     § Poolingofvariousfundsforsomeprojectscansimplifyimplementation.
o Project design should allow the flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances ­ economic, financial,
   social context (restructuring)
o The capacity of the government to provide adequate counterpart funding needs to be assured and
   realistic "disbursement ratios" are vital.

Project Implementation
o Need for capacity building across all involved government agencies ­ example of Ministry of Works ­
   design, procurement, supervision/monitoring and evaluation capacity
o Private sector tendering for construction (and design / supervision) appears more efficient and cost
   effective
o Government financial management needs to be streamlined ­ especially the approval process and
   delegation of signing authority to minimize delays in project payments
o The availability and continuity of appropriate counterpart staff is critical to the success of a project and
   lack of availability and continuity of counterpart staff is a significant contributor to the poor
   performance of projects
o Simplified procurement arrangements and adequate supervision of contractors and consultants are
   important for effective implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In summary, while generally satisfied with the implementation and outcomes of the project, the design was
perhaps overly complex and coordination during implementation was difficult because of the many
stakeholders. The NDOH (National Department of Health) for the ADB-financed components and the
NDOH and the Department of Finance and Planning, (DOFP), for the components financed by AusAID
and the World Bank were the principal implementing agencies, but in total, across the nation, there were
thirteen implementing agencies. On one hand it helped to have a single project that broadly addressed
health issues within the framework of a national health policy, but the project never realized a
fully-coordinated approach. For example to maximize the benefits of a project involving multi-donors there
needs to be capacity building to familiarize government staff with donor expectations and agreement across
all parties on implementation issues, for example, standardization of reporting formats, (especially



                                                    - 14 -

implementation progress and financial reporting). The different donors closed their support to the project
at different times, AusAid in 1997, Asian Development Bank in 1998 and the World Bank in 2002. The
variable closing/completion dates were an added complexity that was not foreseen at the beginning of the
project.

To a large extent implementation and coordination difficulties were compounded by frequent institutional
restructures. The Population Planning Unit (PPU) was created within the Department of National Planning
as the overall project coordinating unit and was also the secretariat of the National Population Council,
(NPC). In a first restructure the unit was amalgamated into an expanded Population and Human Resources
Branch (PHRB) under the Sectoral Planning Division. The limited resources of the PPU were directed
away from project coordination in 1998 and 1999 towards formulation of the National Population Policy
2000-2010. In 2000 another restructure reduced the PHRB to a single position of Senior Planner. This
had tremendous, (negative), consequences for the secretariat role to the NPC and to the project
coordination. In 2002 a Population Coordinating Group comprised of ten technical officers was formed to
provide the secretariat role to the NPC and coordinate the UNFPA-funded Population Policy and
Development Project. A direct consequence of these frequent restructures was a high turnover of key staff
which affected continuity in implementation and was further aggravated by the introduction of
inexperienced staff who had very limited understanding and no institutional memory of the project.

There was no flexibility in the project to reflect changes in Government policy and major reforms. During
the life of the project the Government approved the Medium Term Development Strategy 1997­2002 which
specified the expenditure priorities of Government as basic education, primary health, maintenance of
transport infrastructure, and law and order. This meant a shift in the allocation of Government resources
and hence had implications on the Government's ability to meet its counterpart requirements under the
project.   The new Organic Law on Provincial and local-level Governments was also enacted which
specified the transfer of key functions from the national level to the provinces. The design and structure of
the project did not accommodate well these changing priorities and changed political landscape. Also the
project was designed before the economic crisis and the devaluation of the Kina and project implementation
was hampered by a slow response to the worsening financial environment and social and political
instability. The overall capacity of the government to provide adequate counterpart funding was adversely
affected by the economic crisis but realistic "disbursement ratios" were also vital to the project, it was not
until the final extension of the project in 2000 that the disbursement ratio for STD drugs and
pharmaceuticals was revised from the original 26 percent World Bank to 100 percent World Bank.

The early years of project implementation were characterized by very slow disbursement as project staff
tried to come to terms with procurement guidelines. The Asian Development Bank provided some training
of three to four weeks for procurement staff but the World Bank did not provide enough procurement and
financial management training. Project staff were unfamiliar with very complex bidding documents,
especially for pharmaceuticals, and as a consequence the first bidding process for pharmaceuticals and
contraceptives was significantly delayed and ultimately not accepted for funding by the World Bank and the
Government had to finance the initial procurement of pharmaceuticals and contraceptives from its own
resources. Partly this was a result of staff turnover and difficulties in providing appropriate counterparts
but it was also compounded by a lack of training, overly complex and confusing procurement guidelines
and documents, and sometimes slow and inconsistent responses from the World Bank in procurement
reviews. The relations between Government staff and World Bank staff throughout the project were
cordial and productive and there was a significant transfer of knowledge. Particularly in the early years of
the project Bank missions were sympathetic to the challenges the Government was facing and were helpful
in proposing strategies to address implementation problems. Communication with the World Bank was
more difficult during the final extension period of the project, partly because of the new Government


                                                     - 15 -

structures and staffing problems but also there were delays experienced in replies from the World Bank.

Civil works to upgrade CHC and MHC facilities in six Provinces was problematic during the first years of
the project. A significant factor was a lack of capacity within the Ministry of Public Works to supervise
construction and rehabilitation. Better progress was made once a private consulting firm was recruited to
manage contracts and supervise construction. Construction during the extension, when the project scope
was expanded into six new provinces, was generally very satisfactory and a clear lesson for further projects
is that there needs to be resources in the project for contract management and supervision. If the capacity
is not available in Government ministries, such as the Ministry of Works, then the scope of the project
should include capacity building for such ministries as well as for the Health Ministry, alternatively
management and supervising capacity should be recruited from independent private sector consulting firms.

The impact of the project is difficult to quantify because there was no baseline data and no regular,
standardized collection of data during the project.        The Demographic Health Survey was a major
accomplishment of the project, and has contributed significantly to the National Population Policy
2000-2010.     The Government plans to conduct another DHS in 2005 with support from the Asian
Development Bank and a follow-up evaluation of the impact of the project would be possible and beneficial
in 2006, based on an analysis of the new DHS data.

Overall the Government believes that the major objectives of the project were fulfilled.

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators (retrofitted from project):
                Indicator/Matrix                    1991              1996               2001
    Percentage WRA aware of modern FP              Unknown                   67.7*    Unknown
                                     methods
     Average desired family size (measured         Unknown                    3.9*    Unknown
                       by wanted fertility rates)
          Contraceptive prevalence rate (%)        Unknown                   19.8*  26+ (1995-2000)
        Unmet need for contraception (% of         Unknown                     29*    Unknown
                               married women)
                              Total fertility rate 5.6# (1990)  4.84 (15-49 years)*       4` (2000)
                                                                4.67 (15-44 years)*
                           Infant mortality rate           82*    69* (1992-1996)        56` (2000)
            Maternal mortality rate (100,000)      Unknown                   390#              254-
                                                                            (1995)           (2001)
                                                                               59-
                                                                            (1996)
                    Internal revenue per capita           795'               1025'        $810 US~
                                                       (GNP)                (GNP)             (GNI)
*DHS (1996)
^UNICEF 2002
~World Bank, World Development Indicators 2001, Washington, DC, 2001
`World Bank, www.devdata.worldbank.org/hnpstats
#World Bank Gender Stats
+UNDP Human Development Report 2002
-PNG National Health Information System

Outcome/Impact Indicators (for additional information):
             Indicator
Health facilities visited by a                      33% (1995)                          33% (2002)
medical officer during the past
year
Health facilities with PHO                          53% (1995)                          41% (2002)
supervisory visit during the past
year
Out reach clinics undertaken                        3.6 (1998)                           3.1 (2002)


Outpatient visits per person                        1.90 (1998)                          1.53 (2002)


Supervised Deliveries                               42% (1998)                           38% (2002)


Pregnant Women receiving                            60% (1998)                           57% (2002)
Antenatal Care
Family Planning (no. couples /                      107 (1998)                            96 (2002)
1000 using family planning)
Delivery Room with running                          61% (2000)                           51% (2002)
water/sink
Shortage of essential                               52% (1998)                           40% (2002)
medications
  National Health Information System




                                                           - 17 -

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Project Costs by Category (in US$)
  Expenditure Category          Appraisal                     Actual Cost    Percentage of
                                  Cost                        (Bank Only)      Appraised
                                Estimate                                         Cost
                                (millions)                                    (Bank Only)
                         Local   Foreign  Total  Bank  Local Foreign Total
Civil Works                  2.5       1.4  3.9    3.4   1.87   1.00  2.87       84%
Equipment, furniture and     0.5       1.1  1.6    0.8   0.09   0.19  0.28       10%
vehicles
Contraceptives and STD       0.2       3.4  3.6    1.1   0.05   1.05  1.10      100%
drugs
IEC and media production     1.2       0.8  2.0    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
Training/studies             2.8       1.9  4.7    0.6   0.29   0.18  0.47       78%
Technical assistance/        1.5       4.6  6.1    1.0   0.21   0.59  0.80       80%
Consultant services
Demographic survey           0.8       0.3  1.1    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
NGO field activities         0.5       0.2  0.7    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
Related operating costs      3.2       0.6  3.8    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
      Baseline cost        13.2       14.3 27.5    6.9   2.51   3.01  5.52       80%

Contingencies
   Physical                  0.6       0.7  1.3    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
   Price increase            2.3       1.6  3.9    0.0   0.00   0.00  0.00        n/a
      Subtotal               2.9       2.3  5.2    0.0   2.51   3.01  5.52       80%

Total                      16.1       16.6 32.7    6.9   2.51   3.01  5.52       80%




                                            - 18 -

        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
       Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                 Total cost
                                                                                 including
                                                                                contingencies
                                       ICB       LCB         Others     N.B.F.
Civil works                             0.0       2.3           1.5       0.7        4.5
                                       (0.0)     (2.0)         (1.4)     (0.0)      (3.4)
Equipment, furniture and vehicles       0.0       0.6           0.3       0.9        1.8
                                       (0.0)     (0.6)         (0.2)     (0.0)      (0.8)
Contraceptives and STD drugs            4.2       0.0           0.0       0.0        4.2
                                       (1.1)     (0.0)         (0.0)     (0.0)      (1.1)
IEC and media production                0.0       0.0           0.0       2.4        2.4
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Training and studies                    0.0       0.0           0.6       5.0        5.6
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (0.6)     (0.0)      (0.6)
Consultant services                     0.0       0.0           1.0       6.2        7.2
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (1.0)     (0.0)      (1.0)
Demographic survey                      0.0       0.0           0.0       1.3        1.3
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
NGO field activities                    0.0       0.0           0.0       1.0        1.0
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Incremental recurrent costs             0.0       0.0           0.0       4.7        4.7
                                       (0.0)     (0.0)         (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Total                                   4.2       2.9           3.4      22.2       32.7
                                       (1.1)     (2.6)         (3.2)     (0.0)      (6.9)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
World Bank ONLY
               Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method          Total cost
                                                                                  including
                                                                                contingencies
                                             ICB        LCB          Others
       Civil works                             1.28          1.59             0           2.87
       Equipment, furniture and vehicles          0             0          0.28           0.28
       Contraceptives and STD drugs             1.1             0             0            1.1
       IEC and media production                   0             0             0            0.0
       Training and studies                       0             0          0.47           0.47
       Consultant services                        0             0           0.80          0.80
       Demographic survey                         0             0             0            0.0
       NGO field activity                         0             0             0            0.0
       Total                                                                              5.52




                                              - 19 -

Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
               GOV PNG              ADB           AusAID                     IBRD                       Total
  Expenditure  Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Est. Actual Appraisal Actual Actual
    Category                                                                      IBRD  IBRD                    as a %
                                                                                  Share Share                   of Est.
                US$      US$     US$      US$     US$      US$     US$      US$    %     %      US$      US$      %
                 Mill     Mill    Mill    Mill     Mill    Mill     Mill    Mill                 Mill     Mill
Civil Works          0.40 0.10      0.67   0.91        0.0    0.0     3.40   2.87 76%     74%      4.47    3.88   87%
Equipment,           0.10 0.18      0.80   0.42      0.52   0.36      0.80   0.28 44%     23%      2.22    1.24   56%
Furniture &
Vehicles
Contraceptives       3.10 2.00        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0     1.10   1.10 26%     35%      4.20    3.10   74%
& STD drugs
IEC & Media          0.50 0.02      2.09   0.83        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  0%     0%      2.59    0.85   33%
Production
Training and          0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0     1.36   1.13      0.60   0.47 11%     29%      1.96    1.60   82%
Studies
Consultant            0.0   0.0     1.94   2.77      7.04   6.54      1.00   0.80 14%      8%      9.98   10.11 101%
Services
Demographic           0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0     1.30   0.99        0.0    0.0  0%     0%      1.30    0.99   76%
Survey
NGO Field            0.20 0.01      0.74   0.15        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  0%     0%      0.94    0.16   17%
Activities
Incremental           4.7 0.71        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  0%     0%        4.7   0.71   15%
Recurrent
Costs
Construction          0.0   0.0     0.30   0.15        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  0%     0%      0.30    0.15   50%
Service Charge
Unallocated           0.0   0.0     0.63   0.00        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  0%     0%      0.63 0.00       0%
Total                 9.0 3.02      7.17 5.23      10.22    9.02      6.90   5.52 21%     24%    33.29    22.79   68%




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not calculated at appraisal for this project.




                                              - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count             Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/05/1990       2 WB, 2 TOT     POPULATION (1); HEALTH (1)
              05/15/1991       4 WB, 4 TOT     POPULATION (2); HEALTH
                                               (1); IEC (1)
              11/08/1991       2 WB, 5 TOT     HEALTH (1); POPULATION
                                               (1); ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                                               HEALTH (1); DEMOGRAPHER
                                               (1)
              03/06/1992       2 WB, 7 TOT     HEALTH (2); POPULATION
                                               (1); ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                                               HEALTH (1); DEMOGRAPHER
                                               (1); PROJECT COORDINATOR
                                               (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/22/1992         2 WB, 10      MISSION LEADER (1);
                                       TOT     OPERATIONS
                                               ANALYST(1);
                                               ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                                               HEALTH (2);
                                               DEMOGRAPHER (1);
                                               MANAGEMENT (1);
                                               HEALTH PROMOTION (1);
                                               DRUG SUPPLY (1);
                                               PROJECT COORDINATOR
                                               (1)
              09/07/1992       4 WB, 7 TOT     HEALTH (1); POPULATION
                                               (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1) MANAGER ­ ADB (1);
                                               PROGRAM OFFICER (1); NOT
                                               GIVEN* (1)
              02/17/1993         Unknown       Unknown

 Supervision

              09/01/1993       2 WB, 2 TOT     POPULATION (1); HEALTH (1)       1               1
              12/08/1993       1 WB, 5 TOT     HEALTH (1); NOT GIVEN* (4)       HS             HS
              05/20/1994       2 WB, 8 TOT     HEALTH (1); PROGRAM              S               S
                                               OFFICER (1); DEMOGRAPHER
                                               (1); NOT GIVEN* (5)
              10/14/1994       2 WB, 6 TOT     HEALTH (1); DEMOGRAPHER          S               S
                                               (1); NOT GIVEN* (4)
              05/03/1995       2 WB, 6 TOT     HEALTH (1); POPULATION           U               S
                                               (1); NOT GIVEN* (4)
              03/15/1996       2 WB, 6 TOT     PUBLIC HEALTH (1);               U               S
                                               POPULATION (1); NOT
                                               GIVEN* (4)



                                                - 22 -

      10/31/1996    4 WB, 7 TOT POPULATION (1); PUBLIC      U    S
                                HEALTH (1); OPERATIONS
                                ANALYST (1); NOT GIVEN*
                                (4)
      08/20/1997    4 WB, 6 TOT POPULATION (1);             S    S
                                PROCUREMENT (1);
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                DEMOGRAPHER (1);
                                TECHNICAL ADVISER (1)
                                NOT GIVEN* (1)
      03/09/1998    4 WB, 8 TOT POPULATION (1);             S    S
                                PROCUREMENT (1);
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                DEMOGRAPHER (1); NOT
                                GIVEN* (4)
      07/15/1998    2 WB, 2 TOT POPULATION (1);             U    S
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
      10/29/1998    5 WB, 6 TOT POPULATION (1);             U    S
                                OPERATIONS (1);
                                PROCUREMENT (1);
                                FINANCIAL (1); ARCHITECT
                                (1); TECHNICAL ADVISER(1)
      02/25/1999    3 WB, 4 TOT MISSION LEADER (1);         U    S
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                DEMOGRAPHER (1); NOT
                                GIVEN* (1)
      09/15/1999    2 WB, 2 TOT POPULATION (1);             S    S
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
      02/25/2000    2 WB, 2 TOT OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);     S    S
                                POPULATION (1)
      07/13/2000    2 WB, 2 TOT OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);     S    S
                                POPULATION (1)
      11/09/2000    3 WB, 3 TOT POPULATION (1),             S    S
                                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                ARCHITECT (1)
      03/16/2001    1 WB, 1 TOT PUBLIC HEALTH (1)           S    S
      08/04/2001    2 WB, 2 TOT OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);     U    S
                                POPULATION (1)
      03/14/2002    1 WB, 1 TOT POPULATION (1)              S    S

ICR




                                - 23 -

*Specialties of staff were not defined in the project documentation for those in the 'NOT GIVEN' category.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                           n.a.                            451,866
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                n.a.                                n.a.
  Supervision                                          n.a.                            876,581
  ICR                                                  n.a.                                n.a.
  Total                                                n.a.                          1,328,446
Note: Identification/Preparation includes Appraisal/Negotiation. Supervision includes ICR. Excludes trust funds.




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  ADB. Project Completion Report on the Population and Family Planning Project (Loan No.
     1225-PNG[SF]).
  AusAID. PNG Population and Family Planning Project: Project Completion Report. July 1998.
  Burdon R, Polume H, Iangalio R. The Current Status of Family Planning in Papua New Guinea.
     October 2002.
  Kipilan C. Biannual Report Prepared for The World Bank, July to December 2002. Projects Section -
     Department of Health. January 28, 2003.
  Kipilan C. PFPP Semi-Annual Report : January to June 2002. Projects Section - Department of
     Health.
  August 22, 2002.
  Kombeng W. PFPP Handover Report, July 2000. Projects Section - Department of Health.
  Monitoring and Research Branch, Department of Health. Annual Health Sector Review, A
     Preliminary National Report. May 7, 2003.
  National Statistical Office. Recent Fertility and Motality Indices and Trends in Papua New Guinea,
     Report based on the Analysis of 2000 Census Data. Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. April,
     2003.
  Raka-Koama R. PFPP Semi-Annual Report : July to December 1998. Population Planning Unit,
     Office of National Planning and Implementation. August 31, 1999.
  World Bank. Management, Manpower, Money: A Select Review of Health and Population in Papua
     New Guinea. (Report No. 8959-PNG). Feb 25, 1991.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
     (Report No. 11264-PNG). March 12, 1993.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Discussions in the Human Resource Sector. Aide Memoire.
     December 1990.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Loan Agreement Number 3591-PNG. July 1993.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Aide Memoire. April
     1991.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Joint World Bank, Asian
     Development Bank and AIDAB Mission Aide Memoire. October 1991.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Joint World Bank, Asian
     Development Bank and AIDAB Mission Aide Memoire. February 1992.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Joint World Bank, Asian
     Development Bank and AIDAB Mission Aide Memoire. April 1992.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Joint World Bank, Asian
     Development Bank and AIDAB Mission Aide Memoire. September 1992.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Back to Office
     Memorandum. February 1993.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Back to Office Report.
     September 1993.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Project Supervision
     Mission Aide Memoire. November 1993.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Donor Review Mission
     Aide Memoire. May 1994.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Donor Review Mission
     Aide Memoire. October 1994.
  World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Donor Review Mission
     Aide Memoire. April 1995.


                                                  - 27 -

World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Donor Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. March 1996.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Technical Review
   Mission Aide Memoire. October 1996.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Findings and
   Recommendations. February 1997.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. August 1997.
Asian Development Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Review
   Mission Aide Memoire. November 1997.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. March 1998.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. July 1998.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. October 1998.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. February 1999.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. September 1999.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Aide Memoire. February
   2000.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. July 2000.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Progress Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. October 2000.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Review Mission Aide
   Memoire. March 2001.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Project Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. July 2001.
World Bank. Papua New Guinea: Population and Family Planning Project. Project Review Mission
   Aide Memoire. March 2002.




                                         - 28 -

- 29 -

