Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11264-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
MARCH 12, 1993
Country Department III
East Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kiiia (PGK)
US$1.00 = PGK 0.95
I Kina    = US$1.045
(December 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
AIDAB       -     Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
AMS         -     Area Medical Store
ASH         -     Assistant Secretary of Health
CR          -     Civil Registration
DFP         -     Department of Finance and Planning
DRHAY       -     Department of Religion, Home Affairs and Youth
DPM         -     Department of Personnel Management
FAS         -     First Assistant Secretary
FP          -     Family Planning
HCMU        -     Health Curriculum and Media Unit
IMR         -     Infant Mortality Rate
IPPF        -     International Planned Parenthood Federation
KBO         -     Keyboard Operator
MCH         -     Maternal and Child Health
MMR         -     Maternal Mortality Rate
NACPP       -     National Advisory Committee on Population Policy
NCD         -     National Capital District
NDOH        -     National Department of Health
NEC         -     National Executive Council
NGO         -     Non-Government Organization
NPC         -     National Population Council
NSO         -     National Statistical Office
PDOH        -     Provincial Division of Health
PDF         -     Provincial Division of Finance
PDS         -     Provincial Data System
PEC         -     Post Enumeration Check
PIP         -     Public Investment Program
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PNG         -     Papua New Guinea
PNGFPA    -       Papua New Guinea Family Planning Association
PNGIMR    -       Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research
PPU         -     Population Planning Unit
PSC         -     Project Steering Committee
PSS         -     Pharmaceutical Services Section
SEATS       -     Service Expansion and Technical Support Project
STD         -     Sexually Transmitted Disease
TFR         -     Total Fertility Rate
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Program
UNFPA       -     United Nations Population Fund
UPNG        -     University of Papua New Guinea
USAID       -     United States Agency for International Development
WHO         -     World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Child Mortality Rate     Number of deaths of children under five years of age per 1,000 live
births in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence  Proportion of married women of reproductive age (1544) estimated
to be using contraceptives.
Crude Birth Rate         Number of live births per year per 1,000.
Crude Death Rate         Number of deaths per year per 1,000.
Rate of Natural Increase   Difference between crude birth and crude death rates; usually
expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population Growth Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration, expressed as
a percentage of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate     The average number of live children that would be born per women
if she were to live to the end of childbearing years and bear children
according to a given set of age-specific fertility rates. The Total
Fertility Rate serves as an estimate of the average number of
children per family.
Net Reproduction rate    The number of live born daughters a cohort of females would bear
under a given fertility schedule and a given set of survival
probabilities, from birth to the end of childbearing years.
Infant Mortality Rate    Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per 1,000 live
births during the same year.
Maternal Mortality Rate   Number of maternal deaths in a given period divided by the number
of live births during the same period. The maternal mortality rate
is usually expressed per 1,000,000 live births.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I I



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
LOAN AND PRoJECr SuMMARY
Borrower:              Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:                 US$6.9 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Desciption:     The principal objectives of the project are to create the capacity to
bring the rate of population growth into balance with the potential
for better human resource development and to improve the health
of mothers and children through greater use of family planning and
related maternal services.   The project will support the
implementation of the Government's population policy announced
in March 1991. A program approach has been adopted which will
(i) develop the institutional capcity to foster and manage a
comprehensive population program; (ii) deliver effective family
planning services; (iii) generate an increased demand for family
planning; and (iv) mobilize public awareness and support for the
program through government and non-government channels. The
project will significantly contribute to improvements in female
reproductive health, thus female health in general. The legitimacy
of family planning will be strongly enhanced leading to overall
improvement in the social welfare of the current generation and
ultimately to macro-economic and environmental benefits from
moderated population growth.
While Government policy aims to provide better family planning
services nationwide, in the initial phases program strategy will
direct efforts to areas of highest population density. Improved
family planning services will be fostered through (i) provision of
improved facilities for family planning delivery and counselling,
including appropriately equipping the facilities; (ii) operational
support for management and supervision; (iii) staff training in
clinical and communication skills; and (iv) incremental staffing.
The provision of family planning services and the overall



- ii -
population program will be supported through (i) improved
logistics and contraceptive supplies; (ii) enhancement of non-
government  organizations  capabilities  in  this  sector;
(iii) development of a health promotion center; (iv) population and
family planning research; (v) improved collection of demographic
data including a demographic health survey in 1995; and
(vi) management and program monitoring and evaluation activities.
Benefits:                The Government will be assisted in providing effective family
planning services, improving the reproductive health of women
and, in the longer term, leading to a moderation in population
growth. This is expected to contribute towards enhanced socio-
economic development and amelioration of social problems related
to high fertility levels. Environmental management may expect to
benefit from a moderated rate of population growth.
Risks:                   There is broad support within the community for a population
program. However, expectations of any rapid decrease in fertility
have to be tempered by experience from other countries and
particularly by recognition of the low educational attainment and
restricted access to information characteristic of PNG. A long
term and sustained effort will be required which may test political
resolve and which emphasizes the need to deeply involve
community based organizations. In the short term, institutional
issues are a concern for management capabilities within the
responsible agencies remain weak.
Project Costs:                       Local              Foreign            Total
--------------------- US$ million---------------------
Provincial Family Planning              7.4                 4.8               12.2
Service Delivery
Program Support                         5.8                 9.5               15.3
Baseline Cost                        13.2                1.                 27.5
Contingencies:
Physical                              0.6                 0.7                1.3
Price Increase                        2.3                 1.6                3.9
Subtotal                            2.9                  2.3 512
Total Proiect Cost                   16 1                                   27
L/  Includes local taxes estimated at US$150,000 equivalent.



- iii -
Fmnancing Plan:
Local               Foreign             Total
-  -------------- US$ million ---------------------
Government                                 5.4                   3.6                 9.0
IBRD                                       2.8                   4.1                 6.9
ADB                                        2.9                   3.9                 6.8
AIDAB                                      5.0                   5.0                10.0
Tota                                    161                                     32.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                    1994      1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
------------------------------- US$ million - ---------------------------
Annual                       0.7        1.0       1.4        2.0        1.2        0.6
Cumulative                   0.7        1.7       3.1        5.1        6.3        6.9
Economic rate of
Return:                    Not applicable






- iv -
CONTENTS
Page No.
1 POPULATION AND HEALTH POLICIES,
STRATEGIES AND PROGRAMS  ..........................                                 1
A. Population Characteristics and Trends .......................                    1
B. Population Policy  ...................................                           2
C. Health Status and Policies ..............................                        3
D. Public Expenditure on Population, Health and
Family Planning Activities .............................                      4
E.  Administrative Structure for Population and
Family Planning Policy Implementation .....................                   5
F.  Family Planning Service Delivery  .........................                     6
G. Non-Government Sector ...............................                            8
H. Family Planning Program Issues ..........................                       10
I. External Assistance.11
J.  Bank's Role and Strategy ...............................                       11
K. Environmental Considerations ............................                       12
2 THE PROJECT   ......................................                                13
A. Origin of the Project  .................................                        13
B. Project Objectives and Scope  ............................                      13
C. Project Description  ..................................                         14
D. Monitoring & Evaluation, Management & Implementation  ....            ......    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Papua New Guinea in
April/May 1992 comprising Dr. M. Porter (mission leader); Ms. M. Masuda (operations
assistant); Dr. J. Hohnen (public health specialist - AIDAB); Ms. C. McMurray (demographer -
AIDAB); Mr. R. Hoffman (project economist - ADB); Mr. Mark Turner (consultant -
management specialist); Mr. Ved Kumar (consultant - pharmaceutical specialist);
Ms. Cecilia Verzoza (consultant - health promotion); Ms. Marjorie Andrew (consultant - PNG
project preparation coordinator); and Dr. Mellie Samson (on assignment from the National
Department of Health). Peer reviewers were Ms. A. Hill (SA2PH) and Mr. C. Walker
(SA3PH).   The project was endorsed  by  Mr. Clifford  Gilpin, Chief, EA3PH, and
Ms. Marianne Haug, Director, EA3.



Page No.
3 PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT 25
A. Cost Estimates .....................................    25
B. Financing  ..........           ..............................    28
C. Procurement  ......................................    29
D. Disbursements  .....................................    31
E   Accounts, Audits and Reports ............................    32
4 BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................    33
A. Benefits  .........................................                        33
B. Risks ...........            ................................              33
5 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..... ......    34
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1    Percentage of Methods Adopted by New Acceptors By Year.                    7
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component .25
3.2    Summary of project Costs by Category of Expenditure .26
3.3 Financing Plan .29
3.4 Procurement Arrangements .30
ANNEXES
1.   Family Planning Service Delivery - Detailed Description .35
2. New Staff Positions .49
3.   Detailed Schedule of Training Activities .51
4.   Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference .55
5.  Organogram of Health Promotion Center .70
6. Organogram of Program Management .71
7.   Project Management - Detailed Description .72
8. Implementation Schedule .81
9. Monitoring and Evaluation Program .84
10. Supervision Plan .87
11. Detailed Cost Tables .89
12.   Summary of Technical Assistance Program   ...................    92
13.   Year and Source of Funding for Technical Assistance .94
14. Schedule of Disbursements .95
15.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File .96
MAP: IBRD Map No. 24125



POPULATION AND HEALTH POLICIES,
STRATEGIES AND PROGRAMS
A. POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS AND TRENDS
1.1        Population Size and Growth. The first complete enumeration of the population
of Papua New Guinea (PNG) was undertaken in 1980, recording a total of 3,010,727 persons,
99 percent of whom were citizens of the country. The population was characterized by its youth
(over 43 percent were under 15 years of age), its rurality (some 87 percent lived in rural areas)
and its low life expectancy (49.6 years for both sexes). Of the four political regions, that of the
Highlands carried 37 percent of the total population with a relatively dense (45 persons per
sq km) but scattered settlement pattern. Internal migration was found to be substantial, with the
National Capital District (NCD) and the island provinces being poles of attraction due to better
employment opportunities. More recently, migration has been towards the plantation economy
of the Eastern and Western Highlands Provinces, the oil palm resettlement areas in West New
Britain and Northern Province, and the mineral industry.
1.2        The 1990 census excluded North Solomons Province, but a preliminary hand count
of the 19 provinces where the census was carried out yielded a total of 3.6 million. Of these,
3,511,700 are presumed to be citizens, compared with 2,881,933 citizens in the 19 provinces
in 1980. This suggests an average growth rate of just under 2.27 percent, which is the figure
currently used in official releases. However, it is widely agreed by researchers that both
censuses undercounted the population; the 1980 census by about 8 percent and the 1990 census
by more, so they cannot be compared without adjustment.
1.3        A post enumeration check (PEC) found that the 1990 census was completed in only
12,730 census units of a total of 13,937, excluding North Solomons Province. Up to 65 percent
of households in the PEC yielded different results from the census. From this it was estimated
that the total population could be between 3.9 and 4.6 million, depending on the assumptions
made about the level of accuracy in census units that were not checked.  A conservative
assumption of 10 percent under-enumeration in 1990 yields a growth rate of 2.5 percent in the
intercensal period, but the most recent estimates place the growth rate closer to 3.0 percent. I/
The official result of the 1990 census is expected in April 1993.
1.4        Population Projections. As estimates of fertility and mortality for the 1980-1990
intercensal period are unavailable, population projections can only be speculative. A rough
1/  The estimated annual growth rate for PNG compares with neighboring Melanesian countries. The
average annual growth rate for Solomon Islands 1976-1986 was 3.5 percent, and that for Vanuatu
1979-1989 3.1 percent.



- 2 -
guide is that a total population of 4 million in 1990 growing at an average rate of 2.5 percent
per annum would exceed 6.5 million by 2010. If the average growth rate is about 3.0 percent
the population size in 2010 would be around 7.3 million. If, as is likely, the PNG population
actually exceeded 4 million in 1990, the corresponding figures would be larger.
1.5        Fertility. The national total fertility rate is still officially estimated at around 5.3
children per woman, the figure derived from the 1980 census. That corresponds with a Crude
Birth Rate (CBR) of 35 per thousand. There was, and continues to be, considerable variation
between provinces, from below 5 children per woman in the Highlands to 6.8 in West New
Britain. At present there are no new data available to assess trends, but since most areas of
Papua New Guinea had traditionally controlled the number and spacing of children through
periodic abstinence (facilitated by polygamy), it is possible that the TFR has increased as
modernization erodes these practices. In addition, expected improvements in health care are also
likely to result in further increases in fertility, especially in the Highlands, where high levels of
sexually transmitted disease contribute to lower fertility levels.
1.6        Mortality. Improvements in nutrition, living conditions and health care have
resulted in a rapid decline in the crude death rate, now estimated to be in the order of 13 per
thousand. The infant mortality rate (IMR) declined by 50 percent between 1971 and 1980, to
about 72 per thousand live births and the child mortality rate to 42 per thousand. These rates
are still relatively high and considerable improvement is possible in the coming years. Together
with other improvements in age-specific mortality, the average life expectancy of the population
at large is expected to improve from its low level of 50 years in 1980. Estimates of maternal
mortality rate (MMR), varying from 2 per thousand in urban areas to 5 per thousand in
accessible rural areas and up to 12 per thousand in remote parts of the country, lead to an
informed guess of about 7 maternal deaths per thousand live births (among the highest in the
world) for the country as a whole.
1.7        Vital Events. Despite a Civil Registration Act, there is no effective registration
of vital events in PNG. A system of birth registration was introduced into the Southern
Highlands in 1987 and, in 1989, into Milne Bay to provide estimates of fertility and infant and
child mortality. The system has been described as incomplete. Civil registration activities come
under three pieces of legislation, the Civil Registration Act, the Marriage Act and the Printers
and Newspaper Act; responsibility for this legislation rests with the Registrar General at the
Department of Religion, Home Affairs and Youth (DRHAY). With a staff of 10, the Registrar
General had no operating budget for 1992 due to administrative changes carried out in January
1992. The Government has indicated that the registration of births, marriages and deaths should
be enforced. This would prove difficult in practice and it is not expected that a vital registration
system will be an effective tool for monitoring vital events in the foreseeable future.
B. POPULATION POLICY
1.8        Antecedents.  Moves toward a population policy were made at the time of
Independence in 1975 leading to a submission to National Executive Council (NEC) to adopt a
population policy in 1978. The NEC did not endorse the proposed policy on the grounds that
it had not been generated endogenously, that there were adequate land resources and that large
families were required for security reasons. There were also internal organizational disputes
over responsibility for jurisdiction. In 1980, a Family Planning and Population Coordination
Committee was formed to develop a demographic research program but this initiative was



- 3 -
quickly abandoned. In 1987, the NEC directed that a National Advisory Committee on
Population Policy (NACPP) and a population policy unit be established within the Department
of Finance and Planning (DFP). In May 1988, the "Guidelines Towards a National Population
Policy" were submitted to the NACPP, but no further action was taken by that body.
1.9        Policy endorsement. In 1990, a Population Planning Unit (originally called the
Population Planning and Coordination Unit) was established within the Social Affairs Division
(now the Social Planning Division) of DFP and a document titled "An Integrated National
Population Policy for Progress and Development" prepared and submitted to the NEC for
consideration. On March 1, 1991, the NEC endorsed the policy expressed in the paper,
approved the establishment of a National Population Council (NPC) by legislation, directed the
National Department of Health (NDOH) to be actively involved in implementing a national
family planning program, endorsed the involvement of the provincial governments, and directed
that the membership of the NACPP be reduced to a manageable number. Since the NEC
meeting, the Government has accepted the recommendation contained in the Bank's sector report 2/
which proposed that the NACPP should not be resurrected and that only one central body be
retained, the NPC.
1.10       Policy directions.  The population policy is anchored in the view that it is
necessary to view population in the context of the country's broader development concerns and
that the current rate of population growth inhibits the achievement of social and economic
development. Particular concerns to the Government are that: (i) the maternal mortality is high
compared to other countries at the same level of development; (ii) the dependency ratio is
projected to double between 1980 and 2015, from 0.8 to 1.6 dependent for each working age
adult; (iii) the economy has to generate employment for ever larger cohorts of labor entrants
which are insufficiently trained for non-agricultural jobs; and, (iv) the challenges involved in
generating human capital in a situation of competition for investments with the quantitative
increases in the school age populations. Consequently, a program to implement the population
policy would aim to improve family welfare, by providing accurate and timely information and
services to support individual couple's fertility decisions, as well as to reduce fertility and
maternal and infant mortality. Ultimately, these health and welfare measures would also reduce
the rate of population growth.
C. HEALTH STATUS AND POLIcEES
1.11       Mortality and Morbidity. Although health statistics are unreliable, small scale
studies and hospital and health center data indicate that infectious diseases continue to be the
leading cause of death. The proportion of deaths due to pneumonia has seen an upward trend
and was the leading cause of institutional deaths at 21.9 percent in 1988 followed by malaria at
9.2 percent.  Tuberculosis also shows an upward trend and contributed 5.5 percent of
institutional deaths while perinatal mortality contributed about 8.5 percent. Few reliable data
are available on morbidity patterns. One indicator is that 30 percent of hospital and health center
admissions were for infectious diseases. Only about 35 percent of deliveries are supervised by
trained health care providers making estimates of maternal mortality and morbidity somewhat
of an educated guess. The three most prevalent reported causes of maternal mortality are
2/  Papua New Guinea. Management, Manpower, Money: A Select Review of Health and Population
in Papua New Guinea. February 25, 1991.



- 4 -
puerperal  sepsis  (25 percent),  postpartum   hemorrhage  (22 percent)  and  associated
medical/surgical conditions (20 percent).
1.12       Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD). Because of their impact on fertility and
maternal and child health, mention must be made of the high endemicity of STDs in PNG, in
particular gonorrhea and syphilis. Other increasingly recognized STDs are chlamydia and genital
herpes. Hospital statistics show a strong relationship between STDs, stillbirths and infertility
among specific population groups, the highland region being the most affected. The first case
of AIDS in PNG was reported in 1987 and reported cases of HIV cases have nearly doubled in
each succeeding year. The predominant pattern of HIV transmission is through heterosexual
contacts.
D. PUBLIC EXPENDnTURES ON POPULATION, HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING AcnVTvEs
1.13       Recurrent Budget. In 1990, public expenditure on health accounted for 10.3
percent of total government expenditure and 3.3 percent of GDP. Between 1985 and 1990 real
public expenditure on health increased by 2.5 percent annum between 1985 and 1990 but
expenditure decreased over this period in per capita terms. Approximately 88 percent of total
recurrent expenditure on health is currently financed by public tax revenues. The fluctuations
of the macroeconomy and the country's high population growth rate both indicate the need for
PNG to enhance the equity and efficiency of resources allocated for health programs.
1.14       Efforts to monitor general expenditure trends for the health sector or to break out
the relative share of sectoral expenditures devoted to specific programs, such as family planning,
in PNG are complicated by (i) the sharing of financing and expenditure responsibilities between
the NDOH and the provincial Divisions of Health (PDOH); and (ii) the budgeting procedures.
After decentralization in 1983, NDOH retained control of recurrent budget only for planning and
policy formulation, training, pharmaceutical supply and distribution, programs designed to
monitor health sector performance and a limited number of facilities. Control of the recurrent
budget for almost all other programs, including rural and family health programs passed to the
PDOHs. At present, it is not possible to isolate expenditures on family planning programs by
the PDOHs which, under the non-uniform budgetary practices now in use, may incorporate
expenditures for such activities under various aggregated budgetary categories including
extension services, rural health and church health services. A 1988 survey of expenditures and
work patterns at health centers and sub-centers bears out the relative lack of attention paid to
family planning services at present. It was estimated that family planning services accounted for
less than 2 percent of recurrent expenditures at both the health center and sub-center level.
1.15       Investment Budget.  Health sector investments included in the 1989 Public
Investment Program (PIP) for 1990 amounted to 10.1 percent of total government investment.
Closure of the Bougainville Copper Ltd. mine and its impact on government revenue and fiscal
balance led to severe cuts in the PIP. The provisions made for the health sector declined to
3.9 percent of total government investment for 1990, and a further downward adjustment of the
budget was made during 1990 which in particular affected the rural health services. The
allocation of projected investment resources for health during the 1993-1997 period are expected
to rise to about 5.6 percent annually.



-5 -
1.16       Foreign Assistance. Foreign assistance for the health sector is about twice the
level of government investments (PGK 8.7 and PGK 4.3 million respectively for 1990). About
half of these investments are for urban health services and a further 28 percent for rural services.
The rest is mainly for specific disease control activities such as AIDS and Expanded Program
of Immunization (EPI) with only limited support for population and family planning activities
(see also paras.1.42-1.44).
E. ADMINIsTRATivE STRUCTURE FOR POPULATION AND
FAMILY PLANNING POLICY IPLEMENTATION
1.17       The National Population Council.  The mandate of the National Population
Council (NPC), as perceived by the NEC, will be to guide and monitor the implementation of
the population policy and to ensure the incorporation of demographic factors into social and
economic planning. The NPC will coordinate population activities between national and
provincial levels of government.  The composition of the NPC is given in Annex 7.
Representation of the provinces on the NPC will be decided annually at the Provincial Premiers'
Conference. Broader community representation on the NPC will be assured through inclusion
of members drawn from interested organizations, such as the churches.
1.18       The Population Planning Unit (PPU) at the Department of Finance and Planning
(DFP) will act as a secretariat for the NPC, organizing support from different constituencies,
monitoring the progress of policy objectives, overviewing data collection and analysis and
identifying and contracting policy research. Thus DFP, and expressly the PPU, will play a
pivotal role in overseeing the implementation of the population policy and ensuring coordination
between the NPC, the government departments responsible for implementation and those
community based organizations interested in participating in activities related to the policy.
Enabling provincial governments to include demographic considerations into the planning of
economic and social development effectively is also a function of the PPU.
1.19       Under the population policy, the main intervention will be the provision of family
planning services in the context of improvement of maternal and child health. The locus of
responsibility for family planning is the NDOH and within NDOH, the Maternal and Child
Health and Family Planning (MCHIFP) Unit of the Family Health Section of NDOH's Primary
Health Services's Division. The Unit is staffed by four senior nurses and is responsible for a
variety of functions provided in an integrated program of family health including policy
direction, monitoring of FP activities, participation in training through contributing to curricula,
and conducting some in-service training activities for both national and provincial levels and
provide support for provincial in-service family planning training activities. There is no
designated staff at the national level for family planning only.
1.20       The National Health Plan 1991-1995, a document prepared by NDOH with
provincial assistance, provides the directions for provinces to pursue national health objectives
including family planning. There is no direct control by NDOH over provincial divisions of
health (PDOH). The Minister and Secretary of Health can only exercise influence and leadership
in orchestrating a consensus and effective collaboration between the national and provincial
governments in the implementation of the health and family planning policies.
1.21       Provincial Divisions of Health (PDOH). Responsibility for health and family
planning service delivery is firmly located within the PDOH's which are responsible to the



- 6 -
provincial governments. NDOH has little authority or influence on the allocation of health
resources between provinces and between different health programs within provinces. The
pattern of the organization and management of health services differs between provinces. Some
provinces experimented with decentralization of authority to district level but have reasserted
provincial control with the exception of Western Highlands Province. However, the locus of
responsibility for family planning services between provinces is very similar. Generally, a
MCHIFP Coordinator or Community Nursing Coordinator is responsible through the Provincial
Nursing Supervisor to the Assistant Secretary of Health (ASH) for the operation of MCH/FP
services. Thus, whatever the designation, there is a senior nurse in each province with specific
responsibility for family planning. The provincial In-service Training Officer and Health
Education Officer also contribute to family planning activities.
F. FAMILY PLANNING SERVICE DELIVERY
1.22       Antecedents. The country's first family planning clinic was established in Port
Moresby in 1963 by the Papua New Guinea Family Planning Association (PNGFPA), a member
of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).  In 1967, the Public Health
Department followed this initiative by providing limited family planning services through its
facilities. After Independence, approval was given to establish a Family Planning Division
within NDOH and a more systematic program began in 1978. Although marked by a serious
effort to persuade politicians and community leaders of the need for family planning, it lost
momentum with budget cuts and with decentralization of administrative responsibility for health
services to the provinces in 1983. The number of new acceptors dropped from an average of
17,000 per annum between 1979 and 1983 to some 15,000 in 1984. With decentralization,
NDOH's Family Planning Division was abolished and responsibility for providing family
planning services was transferred to PDOH's. Many provinces chose to exercise their new
authority by defining their own priorities and family planning was a major casualty of this
exercise. The contraceptive prevalence rate in PNG is presently estimated to be less than
10 percent of married women of reproductive age, which is very low.
1.23       Service Delivery Outlets. The bulk of family planning services are delivered
through the government network of health centers, health sub-centers and, to a small extent, aid
posts. Those public services are complemented by a similar network run by various churches.
The Government funds and manages about 72 percent of the health centers and 37 percent of the
sub-centers, the balance are run by the churches with financial support from the Government
through grants. Responsibility for the operation of the system and for liaison with the church
network rests with the provincial governments.
1.24       Staff perceptions of the benefits of family planning for maternal and child health
are limited and services are generally only provided following requests by clients. Thus, a
proactive approach to prevention of reproductive risks is lacking. Previously, women were only
allowed to accept family planning with the consent of their husbands but an advisory notice was
issued in March 1990 which dispensed with the need for this consent. This notice aroused
concern among staff who feel that the consent of the husband is needed to protect them from the
possibility of compensation claims and even assault. Despite the advisory notice, use of consent
forms remains widespread. This procedure is undoubtedly restrictive, since time and impetus
are lost seeking spousal consent, but it could be turned to advantage in the development of an
outreach system which does not exist at present. There is no follow-up of drop-outs for a
number a reasons among which lack of transport and the law- and-order situation rank



-7 -
prominently. Officially, unmarried people cannot obtain contraceptive supplies through the
public system.
1.25       Demand for Family Planning Services. Improved transportation has increased
access to towns, while improved education and general modernization are additional factors
which have generated increased demand for family planning services in the major urban centers.
Larger towns now offer family planning in their urban health clinics. While the frequency of
family planning sessions is limited, the trend is towards the extension of hours and making
family planning available on an every opportunity basis. Reports from health center staff
indicate that demand for family planning services consistently exceeds supply of contraceptives
and that method-switch is often used in response to shortages of specific types of contraceptives.
This indicates that contraceptive use could increase significantly by meeting the unmet demand
for family planning. Knowledge of family planning methods and outlets is still low however and
large segments of the population need to be reached with information on family planning before
informed choice can be exercised.
1.26       Contraceptive Logistics and Supplies. Shortages and interruptions in supplies and
frequent changes in source of contraceptives, especially the oral pills, are common problems.
Generally, supplies of contraceptives are more secure at urban clinic than at rural facilities. All
health centers indent to a regional supply center for contraceptives and there is no overall control
at district or provincial level. Contraceptive indenting depends on the person in charge and there
are lapses in routine indenting procedures. Furthermore, requirements tend to be grossly
overestimated by health center staff who have learned that only a proportion of the indent will
be met. It is therefore difficult to quantify the real level of shortages. Private chemists in the
urban centers provide some back-up in the event of a supply failure at the clinic although to what
extent this source is used under these circumstances is unknown.
1.27       Contraceptive Mix. The policy is to make a variety of contraceptive methods
available at both government and church service outlets, except that only information on the
ovulation method is officially available at centers run by the Catholic Church. Among catholic
and protestant acceptors of contraceptives, oral pills and condoms are used at about the same
level. Based on government statistics, which are by no means accurate, Table 1.1 gives the
percentage of methods adopted by new acceptors for the past five years, showing that the most
commonly accepted method is the oral contraceptive, followed by Depo Provera injectable
contraceptives and tubal ligation; comparable figures for earlier years are not available.
Table 1.1: PERCENTAGE OF METHODS ADOPrED BY NEW ACCEPTORS BY YEAR
Year   IUD      Pills  Injection   Condom   Ovulation  Tubal ligation Vasectomy
1987    2.2     55.5     26.6    2.6          5.3         7.4         0.4
1988    1.4     44.3     25.4   16.7          4.0         7.5         0.7
1989    1.5     54.6     26.0    3.7          6.2         7.9         0.1
1990    1.0     54.6     30.9    2.8          4.0         6.4         0.3
1991    1.0     43.6     33.1    4.3          7.2        10.1         0.7



- 8 -
1.28       Until July 1989, the use of Depo Provera was restricted to women who had more
than four children because it was believed to be associated with higher levels of infertility
compared with oral contraceptives. There is no scientific base for this belief. Although a
revised policy instruction on this matter was issued by the Secretary for Health, its message has
not percolated widely. A combination of indifference to the importance of family planning and
strongly held personal views among service staff limits method choice by clients and thereby the
efficacy of the program. Male and female sterilization services are available at hospitals but are
usually offered only to clients who have at least four children and high risk mothers. Female
sterilization far exceeds vasectomies. However, some mission hospitals report ready acceptance
of vasectomy in selected areas. It is not known whether this indicates the potential acceptability
of vasectomy in general or by specific cultural or religious sub-groups only.
1.29       Communications. Being a passive program, little attempt is made to inform and
educate couples about family planning. Health Education as a specific program was largely
abandoned on decentralization in 1983, although effort is now being made to re-introduce trained
professionals.  Articles on the benefits of modern contraception appear in the national
newspapers (counterbalanced by the spread and publication of incorrect rumors), but clinics
rarely display posters or notices. A series of family planning guides was produced by NDOH
including one oh contraceptive methods and another on counselling for family planning. NDOH
also produced four volumes on family planning methods intended for in-service training
programs and distance learning. The extent to which these publications are currently used is
limited. Recently, a Family Planning Guide was published with the assistance of USAID which
was used for Training of Trainers.
G. NON-GOVERNMENT SECTOR
1.30       Churches and Church Health Services. Churches and church organizations play
an important role in the fabric of PNG society with, collectively, activities which reach into
every corner of the country. The PNG National Council of Churches 2f has endorsed, in
principle, the Government's new population policy with an emphasis on family welfare which
encompasses the health of mothers and children. Interpretation of the means to achieve the
policy's goals varies with each group but there is general advocacy for programs which improve
the welfare of families and with most church groups this includes family planning to facilitate
spacing of births in monogamous nuclear families.
1.31       Mission health facilities, located almost exclusively in rural areas, continue to play
a critical role in providing health care and family planning services. Among the health centers,
some serve as small district hospitals and are able to perform sterilizations. There is wide
variation in the range of services offered, a function in part of the denomination which controls
the facility.  Many training centers for health workers are also run by the churches in
conjunction with their clinical facilities. Church-run services are subsidized by government, but,
despite this, many find it increasingly difficult to operate to an acceptable standard and a few
have closed. The level of subsidy for individual facilities varies from year to year and decisions
about allocation of subsidies made by the provincial authorities appear arbitrary. The level of
3/  The National Council of Churches has seven groups; the major ones are the Lutherans, United
Church, Catholic Church, and Anglicans. The only major church group which is not a member is
the Seventh Day Adventist Church.



-9 -
support from outside PNG is diminishing and it has become more difficult to recruit expatriate
staff on which many of the mission centers have relied in the past. Missions are recruiting more
local staff now although they do not share the same benefits or opportunities for advancement
as their government counterparts.
1.32       The Family Planning Association. The Papua New Guinea Family Planning
Association (PNGFPA) was established in 1974 and is a member of the IPPF which is the source
of about 60 percent of its funds. The Association has recently gone through a difficult period
caused primarily by inexperienced staff and a lack of administrative routines. There are 16 full-
time staff. The PNGFPA has a volunteer membership of some 60 persons with a head office
in Port Moresby and branches in Morobe and East Sepik provinces. In 1988, the last year for
which information is available, the PNGFPA ran 126 family planning sessions in rural areas and
four in urban areas; only two of the urban clinics and none of the rural clinics function in
premises owned by the Association. They provided services to just over 5,000 acceptors of
which 49 percent use Depo Provera injections and 47 percent oral pills.
1.33       The PNGFPA runs an innovative mail order service for condoms which attracted
131 persons in 1988, despite a charge of 70 toya for a packet of 15. The Association also
charges for oral contraceptives (50 toya per cycle) at the behest of the IPPF and is anxious to
persuade the government to provide them with free supplies which might enlarge the clientele.
It provides a range of information activities such as presentations at gatherings, translation of
promotional literature from English into Pidgin and Motu, and promotion of an advertising spot
on national TV. A small scale community based distribution scheme, funded by UNFPA, covers
the recruitment, training and support of community distributors of contraceptives in East Sepik
province. In 1988, there were 42 trained women who covered 61 villages and provided oral
contraceptive services to some 1,600 acceptors.
1.34       Women's Organizations.  Earlier this year, the NEC endorsed a National
Women's Policy developed by DRHAY in collaboration with the non-governmental National
Council of Women. The document says nothing specific about family planning, but the
networking potential of the National Council of Women could provide a national family planning
program with considerable support and promotional potential. In addition, the Women's
Division of the DRHAY has recruited women to act as facilitators at the village level for various
social programs on payment of an honorarium. The program is still weakly focused and under-
supported but is a potential conduit for information and promotion of family planning and
maternal and child health interventions in the community.
1.35       The Private Health Sector. From small beginnings, private health care provision
by PNG nationals is steadily growing and has considerable potential for further growth. In
1989, there were 61 private medical practitioners (not all nationals), about 25 percent of all
medical practitioners in PNG. Higher incomes, demand for quality curative care and facilities
and growing insurance coverage by the population drive this development combined with the
Government's consistent focus on primary health care. In addition, some mining companies and
agro-businesses offer a full range of health care to their employees and their dependents. The
Government intends to facilitate private provision of health care as it allows scarce public
resources to be directed to the poor and to those who have not yet entered the cash economy.
Private practitioners are not yet significantly involved in family planning service provision.



- 10 -
1.36       Traditional Health Care. In many areas, people still rely on traditional health
care which is based on herbal medicines and spells. In those areas where access to modern
health care is an option, a fair proportion seek out the help of traditional healers first and only
turn to modem medicine when the complaints become more serious or persistent. Little research
has been done on the active ingredients of traditional herbal remedies and traditional healers
operate outside the modern system. Use of Traditional Birth Attendants is not widespread in
PNG.
H. FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM ISSUES
1.37       Leadership and Management.  Strengthening the national family planning
program implies addressing the serious management, administrative and financial constraints
affecting the delivery of health services in general and of FP/MCH in particular. It particularly
requires influential leadership at the national level and a clear locus of responsibility at NDOH.
On that basis, the national and provincial governments could develop a consensus on policy
directions and agreement on effective administrative procedures, taking into account the relative
advantages of central and decentralized responsibilities for aspects of staff development and
service delivery. The complexities inherent in the decentralized structure of the health sector
could then be turned to advantage and become a facilitating feature in involving communities in
the design and implementation of programs.
1.38       Community Participation.   Organizations rooted in the community and
representing a broad cross-section of the population may be used in the dissemination of family
planning knowledge, legitimizing its use and facilitating adaptation of services to the needs of
widely diverse cultural groups in PNG.  Central management cannot be expected to be
sufficiently attuned to the specificities of local values and norms affecting family life throughout
the country. In addition, ways must be found to communicate with and involve over 700
different language groups, which again points to the need for decentralized responsibilities.
Health care staff and volunteers from church and other community based groups may be best
placed to establish rapport with clients and meet their expectations. As family planning is still
an innovation to the large majority of the population, feedback on program performance is
especially important to learn from experience and identify best practices and failures
expeditiously.
1.39       Outreach. Major efforts must be made to reach couples with information, advise
and services on family planning. Given the distribution of the population and its rurality, that
is a major challenge to be faced. Problems of staffing and communications, exacerbated by the
stringencies of financial shortages and the prevailing law-and-order problems, militate against
a successful outreach program. In such conditions, a successful outreach program will depend
on active support from local leaders for family planning services. In the present situation, clinic
staff only respond to the enquiries of interested groups and individuals for information and talks.
In developing a more active strategy, staff should be encouraged and rewarded for involving
community groups actively in the promotion of family planning. This work will, at first, make
heavy demands on staff time, but the objective should be to switch the onus of motivation to the
community groups themselves. The NDOH could lead this effort by establishing closer and
more formal linkages with the PNGFPA, the Women's Council, church groups and others.
Community involvement is critical in changing attitudes which can often be done better by
voluntary organizations rather than government staff.



- 11 -
1.40       Innovations. In addition, the program must support local innovations to spread
knowledge and motivation. In several provinces, such as Western and Eastern Highlands,
plantation agriculture is well developed and plantation management could be encouraged to be
involved in motivational work if not in providing services. Small stores are dotted throughout
the country; their potential as supply agents for condoms and pills is being tested through a
USAID supported Social Marketing project.
1.41       Another opportunity would be to link up with the initiatives to increase the number
of supervised deliveries. Women, and men, are most receptive to advice on spacing (and
stopping) of births in the postpartum period. Given PNG's strong traditions of long birth
intervals and periods of breastfeeding, development of a postpartum family planning effort seems
to have major potential. In addition, maternity waiting houses which serve remote populations
should be utilized for health education and family planning information with due regard for
meeting re-supply requirements.
I. ExTERNAL AssLSANciE
1.42       United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).  External assistance for family
planning commenced with UNFPA's support for training and contraceptives in 1974 which was
followed later by an MCH/FP project (PNG/84/PO1) in three provinces. Implemented by WHO,
this three year project was designed to increase the number of service outlets, provide refresher
training for staff, and introduce a new system of recording and reporting. As described in
official reports, major problems resulted from the lack of involvement of national and provincial
staff in the formulation stage, particularly those of the three selected provinces who were
apparently not consulted. During implementation, shortages of staff, intermittent contraceptive
supplies, as well as delays in the release of project funds were reported as being serious
implementation problems.  Although some improvements were claimed with the MCH
interventions, there was no measured improvement in contraceptive acceptance. The government
has requested UNFPA to focus its future country assistance on some of the components of the
national program. UNFPA is planning to increase their commitment to family planning and
population activities though the 1992-96 program cycle and will address population education
needs and provide contraceptives.
1.43       USAID currently supports two programs in select regions of PNG. Working in
six provinces, the Service Expansion and Technical Support (SEATS) Project is engaged in a
range of activities aimed at strengthening family planning services. The project's training of
trainers activities are conducted in conjunction with the John Hopkins Program for International
Education in Reproductive Health and their training center at Manila. The SEATS project also
collaborates with a program which supports the social marketing of contraceptives.
1.44       The Asian Development Bank (ADB) assisted Third Rural Health Project, which
became effective in July 1992, seeks to strengthen rural health services and to redress the decline
in the quality and coverage of health services, particularly as it relates to MCH and primary
health care programs.
J. THE BANK's ROLE AND STRATEGY
1.45       The Bank has recognized human resource development as a key area for assistance
to PNG. The Bank has been substantially involved in assisting the education sector and the



- 12 -
recently - approved Education Sector Project includes support for expanding the participation of
girls in Secondary Schooling. Hitherto, the Bank has not been involved in the population and
health sector and the government has relied on ADB and other donors for sectoral assistance.
In November 1989, the Bank was requested to assist with the preparation of the National Health
Plan for 1991-1995 by undertaking an analysis of selected population and health issues and a
Bank sector mission visited PNG in March/April 1990 for this purpose The ensuing report's
recommendations dealing with population were largely adopted by government and were
reflected in the population policy (para. 1.9) which was announced shortly after completion of
this work. Subsequently, the Bank was requested by the government to take the lead in
mobilizing assistance to develop a program to implement the new population policy.
1.46       The long term strategy is to create an indigenous capacity, through institutional and
human resources development, to analyze and guide PNG through the demographic transition
with due emphasis on improving the health and status of women and ensuring their full and free
participation in the development and implementation of the Population and Family Planning
Program. The project seeks to adopt a program approach in support of the Government's
population policy. The project, envisaged as the first phase of a medium-term assistance
strategy, will initially concentrate on regions of highest population density to ensure the largest
possible number of beneficiaries in areas under population pressure. Within those areas, the
project will initially focus on strengthening or creating the institutional capacity to deliver
credible family planning services as part of the extension services to the largely rural population
of PNG. In addition, MCH/FP units in selected rural facilities will be upgraded to facilitate
access to clinical methods of family planning and as points of referral for extension services.
1.47       The key rationale for the project is to reduce the rate of population growth to
enhance better human resource development and to ensure improvements in female health in
general and reproductive health in particular. In addition, the project aims to legitimize the
practice of family planning through public education to enhance understanding of the benefits
of safe motherhood for the overall welfare of the current generation of citizens and the eventual
macro-benefits of moderated population growth. By ensuring a strong leadership role for women
in the implementation of the project, the project intends to demonstrate the vital contribution
women can make to national development and welfare.
K. ENviRoNMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
1.48       In the longer term, moderation of the population growth rate may be expected to
have a beneficial environmental impact.



- 13 -
2
THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN OF THE PROJECT
2.1        Following the Bank's sector report and the request made by government for Bank
assistance, the Bank mobilized a consortium of agencies to assist with the formulation and
financing of a consolidated Population and Family Planning Program. The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) joined with
the Bank to assist the Government prepare and finance the project. UNFPA and USAID were
also involved at various stages of the preparation process and were kept fully informed of
progress. Identification of the project was undertaken in May 1991 and preparation commenced
in October 1991. The project was pre-appraised in February 1992 and appraised in April/May
1992. A post-appraisal mission visited PNG in September 1992.
B. PROJEcr OBJEcTivEs AND SCOPE
2.2        The key objective is to help the Government implement its population policy
announced in March 1991. To achieve this goal the project would create the capacity to bring
the rate of population growth into balance with the country's potential for socio-economic
development and, in particular, human resources development, and to improve the health of
mothers and children through greater use of family planning. The more specific objectives are
to: (i) develop the institutional capacity to foster and manage a comprehensive population
program; (ii) deliver effective family planning services; (iii) generate a greater demand for
family planning; and (iv) mobilize public awareness and support for the program through
government and non-government channels.
2.3        The project seeks to adopt a program approach in supporting implementation of the
Government's population policy. Thus the project will address a range of activities which will
contribute to the overall attainment of Government objectives related to the population issue.
A major element of this program is the delivery of effective family planning services, currently
provided in the context of maternal and child health activities which dominate the agenda. The
strategy adopted to achieve this will initially concentrate on areas of high population density in
the provinces of East New Britain; Eastern Highlands; Morobe; Southern Highlands; Western
Highlands and the National Capital District (NCD). The project is designed to address the needs
of the rural majority, as well as key urban areas, for information, supplies, facilities and service
delivery activities through government and non-government organization (NGO) channels. The
Government's program is national in scope and it is anticipated that more intensive program
activities will be extended to other areas of the country in a phased manner, thus eventually
reaching all potential beneficiaries. To this end, provision has been made to allow extension of
activities during the project to other provinces once the systems necessary for an effective



- 14 -
program are firmly in place. It is expected that decisions about the pace of extension and choice
of population centers to be covered will be guided by the National Population Council (NPC).
C. PRoJEcT DEsCRIPTION
2.4        The project has two elements. The first is support for family planning service
delivery including: (a) upgrading of selected health facilities to provide effective family planning
services; (b) operational support for fixed facility and outreach services including supervision
and monitoring; (c) training in clinical and communication skills both in-country and externally;
and (d) incremental staffing to enhance program management and supervision capacity. The
second group of activities will build long-term capacity for the population program and will
include (a) supply and distribution of contraceptives and related drugs; (b) training, technical
assistance and financial support for NGOs; (c) development of a health and family planning
promotion unit; (d) a sample national demographic survey and piloting of a provincial data
system; (e) operational and behavioral research and research training; and (f) program
management.
1. Provincial Family Planning Service Delivery
(estimated cost US$12.2 million, excluding contingencies)
2.5        The intent of the service delivery component is to increase the quality and coverage
of family planning (FP) services, in order to increase acceptance and continued use of effective
FP methods. Newer contraceptive technologies, such as Norplant will be introduced into the
program on a trial basis, with the approval and guidance of the appropriate Government
authorities. Although in some larger centers FP services may be provided separately for reasons
of efficiency or teaching, in the majority of locations FP will be available as part of an integrated
Maternal and Child Health (MCH) service. While emphasis is placed on fertility control, the
problem of infertility mainly a result of STD's will receive attention. The project will benefit
from policy and technical guidance and monitoring from NDOH. Specific activities and
interventions designed for each province, on the basis of detailed observations and discussions
with local personnel, are set out in Annex 1. An overview of the range of interventions common
to the group is provided below.
Civil Works
2.6        A limited program of renovation, extension and construction of MCH/FP clinics,
almost exclusively at existing facilities, will be carried out at key facilities; this will help to
ensure privacy to clients for examination and counselling and to allow FP services to be offered
on a continuous basis. In some provinces extra space will be created for the office of FP
Coordinator, and, in Morobe and Southern Highlands provinces, to enhance the facilities for in-
service training.
Equipment
2.7        Equipment kits will be provided for health facilities as needed and appropriate for
the range of FP methods to be offered: this will include instruments for surgical contraception
in hospitals. Some training equipment and office equipment will also be allocated where its use
will enhance the program. Provision will be made to ensure that the equipment is distributed,
used, maintained and stored appropriately, and that inventories are maintained. Vehicles will



- 15 -
be provided to undertake outreach programs for MCH/FP and to ensure that transportation is
available for the program managers and supervisors to perform their tasks and assist the training
programs.
Planning, Management and Supervision of FP Services
2.8        Fourteen new positions will be created within the selected provinces and NCD to
ensure that each has a FP Coordinator and sufficient staff to supervise and administer the
program. The additional positions will be based at the provincial centers except for some
supervisory positions at secondary population centers in the highlands provinces. The details of
the additional posts are listed in Annex 2 and clearance from DPM for creation of these posts
has been obtained. During negotiations, the Government agreed to recruit and post these staff
prior to loan effectiveness (para. 5. 1).
2.9        A program of management development will be introduced, to upgrade the skills
of the FP Coordinators and others with program responsibilities, to establish routines of
planning, supervision, monitoring and review. A reference manual of management procedures
will be prepared and the management information system for MCH/FP will be reviewed and
revised, compatible with the current health information system. Resources will be provided for
supervisory visits from national to the provincial level and from provincial level to the field level
for hands-on supervision.
Training
2.10       The project will support a wide range of capacity building activities at national and
provincial levels to improve the competence of managers, service staff and administrative
personnel. A major element of this program will be to improve and expand existing in-service
training capacity for health workers at all service provider levels and in private or commercial
settings, emphasizing counselling and communication as well as technical skills in family
planning. Training and refresher courses for trainers will be undertaken, to develop a cadre of
resource persons, initially for the selected provinces but ultimately for the country. Where
appropriate, currently funded training initiatives will be revised and continued.
2.11       Supplementary teaching and learning materials will be developed for doctors, health
extension officers, nursing and community health workers undertaking pre-service training and
also for the teachers of FP subjects in the training schools. An annual program of seminars
particularly for doctors (private and public sector) and senior nurses in the provinces will be
conducted by appropriate experts in the field of family planning from overseas and PNG. A
short certificate course in FP for doctors will be introduced later in the project, to give a
recognized practical qualification in this field. The feasibility of a distance learning program will
be investigated and trials of such a program introduced in some provinces. The current draft
of the National Family Planning Guidelines will be revised and reprinted and a pocket handbook
on FP for health workers will be produced. A limited number of short-term overseas training
opportunities in clinical and management aspects of FP will be provided. Annex 3 contains a
detailed schedule of training activities.



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
2.12       Technical support will be required to support specific aspects of service delivery
as well as other aspects of the project. Where possible national personnel with requisite
competence will be employed, but for more technical activities it will be necessary to recruit
externally. Two long term advisers will be based at NDOH supported by short term consultants
to carry out specific technical functions. Of the two long-term advisors, one will have a
management function while the other will be responsible for all training programs. The technical
assistance for service delivery will (i) provide support for program managers in the provinces
and NCD, assisting with program orientation, start-up activities and overall management; (ii)
establish supervision and monitoring procedures and assist with problem solving in the early
stages; (iii) revise the MCH/FP component of the health information system, with software
development and training of the users of the system; (iv) review curricula in some pre-service
courses; (v) revise training of trainers (TOT) courses and support course delivery and follow-up;
and (vi) develop teaching/learning materials for both pre-service and in-service courses and for
distance education modules.  Where external assistance is used, an appropriate national
counterpart will be identified, and there will be a responsibility to assist with skill transfer in a
coaching or mentor relationship. The terms of reference of the key technical assistance required
are included in Annex 4. Short lists of sources of technical assistance were reviewed during
appraisal and draft contracts were reviewed and agreed upon at loan negotiations.
II. Program Support
(estimated cost US$15.3 million, excluding contingencies)
Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical Logistic System
2.13       To date, much of the contraceptive supply has been donor funded, with some
purchased by the Government, partly because of infrequent and delayed supplies by donors.
These purchases have been insufficient to maintain an adequate supply. Contraceptives are
bought through the pharmaceutical supplies budget but no specific allocation is made, unlike
STD drugs for which a specific amount is reserved (K 100,000 in 1992). The project will assist
the Government to purchase its contraceptive needs through the period of the project. The level
of purchase using government resources will be adjusted relative to the proposed assistance from
UNFPA for contraceptive supply, indicated to be about US$500,000 for 1993-96. The budget
for contraceptives encompasses an estimate of the total country's requirements during the project
thus simplifying the monitoring of contraceptive purchases.
2.14       The present pharmaceutical supply system is not adequately equipped for regular
delivery of supplies to health facilities; this results in frequent interruptions of contraceptive and
drug availability. The system will be under further strain to handle an expected fivefold increase
in contraceptive supplies under the expanded family planning program. There is a shortage of
material handling equipment, budget for transporting of goods and trained manpower. The
project will finance equipment for storage and handling of drugs and contraceptives, renovation
of the area medical store (AMS) at Rabaul and renovation and expansion of the AMS at Mt
Hagen and Lae to overcome some storage constraints.
2.15       The Pharmaceutical Services Section (PSS) which manages the system has been
given the additional responsibility for procurement of drugs and contraceptives as a part of
Department of Personnel Management's (DPM) structural review of NDOH, without provision



- 17 -
of adequate staff support. In addition to three positions already sanctioned for procurement
officer, systems analyst and key board operator, the section will need an additional pharmacist
and a procurement officer for preparation of technical specifications, drug quantification, bid
evaluation, delivery scheduling and quality control. These positions will be created as part of
the project's staff strengthening of NDOH.
2.16       The institutional capacity of the PSS will be further reinforced by 18 man-months
of technical assistance from a contraceptive and logistic specialist. This consultant will assist
the PSS to (i) prepare standard technical specifications; (ii) determine drug quantities based on
morbidity data; (iii) prepare standard international bidding documents; (iv) procure supplies using
economies of scale; (v) coordinate donor inputs; (vi) develop a protocol for testing of drugs on
order; (vii) maintain a record of supplier performance and minimum stock levels; and (viii)
develop a buffer stocking system and a two-way information flow system to monitor the
movement and shelf life of drugs and contraceptives in the system. The project will also support
in-service training of 36 dispensers at the College of Allied Health Sciences over three years and
fund external training and fellowships for four senior managers in drug management and
procurement.
2.17       PSS has recently installed a computerized inventory control system at headquarters
and area medical stores but it is not linked to any peripheral information flow system to monitor
and compute stock holding and stock movement at health facilities. In addition, although a
system is being operated, very few staff are computer literate to input and interpret data. The
project will finance a six month consultancy for a computer specialist to train staff at PSS and
AMS in computer skills and software use to help develop an information system to ensure
reliable supplies of contraceptives at health facilities. It is proposed in the initial stages to supply
pre-packaged contraceptive kits scaled to needs of different levels of health facilities and supplied
at a regular frequency without indents from the facilities. Finance will be given during the life
of the project for pre-packaging,  transportation from  AMS to health facilities and for
supervision and monitoring of supply, distribution and usage of stocks at the health facilities.
2.18       In summary, the scope of this component will include: (i) supplies of contraceptives
and selected STD drugs to supplement government purchases and commodity aid from external
sources; (ii) improved storage capacity at the AMS's and provincial storage facilities for
contraceptives and medicines and supplies required for effective MCH and STD programs,
including extensions of some existing storage facilities and upgrading of some furnishings and
equipment; and (iii) strengthening of supplies management at the PSS of NDOH and at AMS',
including staff training, technical assistance and provision of support for transport and
distribution of supplies.
Support for Non-Government Organizations
2.19       NGOs and their networks reach throughout the community and provide alternative
and supplementary avenues to address population issues at the community level. Discussions
with the main NGOs who have an interest in family welfare has established a broad level of
interest at all levels of church and women's groups in increasing their involvement with
population issues, although how that might be expressed depends on the values and beliefs of
each organization. The main activities which the NGOs are expected to undertake are increasing
awareness, advocacy and some provision of services.  Training of male and female
communicators in FP will be organized through these NGOs in each province at the community



- 18 -
level, whether in urban or rural areas. Community based distribution of contraceptives will be
introduced in a phased manner in suitable areas and expanded as experience grows. Assistance
is being extended to the Council of Women in Western Highlands to build a new facility from
which to conduct their activities.
2.20       Despite extensive contacts and discussions, it has not been possible to discuss the
program with all NGOs which may have an interest in participating. Thus, a twofold approach
has been adopted. First, funds have been allocated for suitable proposals already received and,
second, funds have been set aside to support future proposals from NGOs. It is planned that
NGOs will submit proposals to the Non-Government Organization Division of the DRHAY
which has the capacity and a budget mechanism for working with NGOs. From there the
proposals will be submitted to the Project Steering Committee (PSC) for review and approval.
A format for submissions and guidelines for preparing and evaluating the proposals will be
developed at the beginning of the Project. Accounting procedures which are acceptable to the
Government and funding agencies will be identified at the same time.
2.21       Technical assistance will be provided for the first two years of the project so that
the potential contribution of the NGOs to the Government program can be harnessed (see
Annex 4). The adviser will assist the NGOs to identify and implement activities, and train NGO
staff in project management, accounting and report preparation. The adviser will also assist in
monitoring and evaluation of NGO initiatives.
2.22       The Women's Division, DRHAY, is the structure through which the National
Women's Training Policy and programs are being developed to empower women in Papua New
Guinea. A consultant will assess project related women in development issues. Training support
will be provided to strengthen the ability of the Women's Division, DRHAY, to help with
women's programs and to educate trainers within the Training Section, Provincial Women's
Officers and Community Women's Organizers about family planning. This support will be
closely coordinated with the technical assistance provided by ADB and other agencies to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Women's Division.
Promotion of Health and Family Planning
2.23       The NDOH needs a comprehensive health promotion program to support, inter alia,
the delivery of family planning services to the nation. Health promotion has been constrained
since the abolition of health educator positions during the 1982 budget cuts. Recently, the ADB
assisted Third Rural Health Services Project has provided for health educator positions in 11
provinces and the NCD. This project proposes to build capacity in health promotion by creating
a new organization to be called the Health Promotion Center (HPC) within the NDOH. This
center will provide overall management and direction to the nation's health and family planning
promotion programs.
2.24       An HPC, responsible to the First Assistant Secretary, Primary Health Services, and
headed by an Assistant Secretary, will be constructed and staffed. The HPC will be built as an
extension of the existing Health Curriculum and Media Unit which houses the NDOH's printing
capacity. The HPC will (i) manage the health and family planning promotion program for the
Department of Health; (ii) develop a national health and family planning promotion plan, in
collaboration with the provincial health educators and monitor its implementation; (iii) train
provincial health educators in all phases of communication work; (iv) provide policy guidelines



- 19 -
on message content and behavior change goals; and (v) standardize technical content of
messages.
2.25       Currently, there are five staff reporting to the Assistant Secretary, Primary Health
Coordinator/Health Educator in the Primary Health Services Branch of NDOH who will be
transferred to the HPC. These are (i) Health Information Editor; (ii) Health Information Officer;
(iii) Health Educator; (iv) Visual Layout Artist; and (v) Keyboard Operator (KBO). The project
will create four new technical positions and one administrative position for the center. These
are (i) Communication Research Officer; (ii) Multimedia materials production officer;
(iii) FP/MCH Communications Officer; (iv) Information retrieval/dissemination Officer; and (v)
KBO (Annex 2). The proposed new organizational structure is presented in Annex 5. Three
staff units in the HPC will provide technical assistance to the subject matter specialists. These
units are: (i) a communication research unit, responsible for directing research activities, (ii) a
multimedia materials production unit; and (iii) a clearinghouse for population/family planning
materials. The head of the HPC will have the following responsibilities: (i) manage the day-to-
day operations of the HPC; (ii) direct all activities aimed at developing a national behavior
change strategy and communication plan; (iii) implement this strategy to promote family
planning; (iv) subcontract individuals and agencies to undertake specific project activities; and
(v) direct all related staff training.
2.26       The HPC will be developed with a technical assistance package for capacity-
building using the family planning program as an opportunity for the center staff and the
provincial health educators to "learn by doing" while conducting a comprehensive information
and promotion campaign. The key objective is institutionalization and capacity-building.
External technical assistance will focus on training and skills transfer with counterpart staff from
NDOH  and the provinces.  A  full-service organization, with a broad base of health
communication experience in developing countries will be contracted to provide one full-time
resident advisor and intensive short-term technical assistance will also be provided for the center.
2.27       The technical assistance, in concert with a core group of staff from the HPC and
the provincial health educators and their partner agencies, will (i) conduct training workshops
in communication planning, research, materials production and program management; (ii)
develop, manage and evaluate a family planning campaign; (iii) implement and evaluate a family
planning promotion program in the six initial areas and prepare a plan for national
implementation; (iv) firmly establish a new organizational unit within NDOH with responsibility
for managing the national health and family planning promotion program; and (v) catalogue and
store at the central HPC and make available to provinces, NGOs, and the commercial sector for
use and adaptation to other sites, multimedia materials (print, radio, video, TV, computer-based
instructional materials and communication research reports) for use in the family planning
promotion program.
2.28       At provincial level the health educator will be the communication program
manager. The key task is to develop a behavior change strategy that supports the public health
and family planning goals of the province and to recruit partner agencies from the government
and the private sector in developing a communication plan and implementing health and family
planning promotion activities. The health educator may tap local and national experts in the
various aspects of health promotion work including: communication research, materials
development and pretesting, training in counselling skills, and implementation of an intensive
health promotion program.



- 20 -
2.29       The first 2-3 years of the project will demonstrate how communication programs
are developed, managed and evaluated. On-the-job training will be complemented with formal
training workshops organized by NDOH. The feasibility of providing continuing education units
for participants at these workshops will be explored. The goal is to develop the profession of
health promoters and develop a career path for those who choose to undertake this line of work.
From the third year, short-term technical assistance will be provided on a declining basis.
Population and Family Planning Research
2.30       Research is needed to evaluate progress and to provide assurance that the activities
of the project are appropriate. The information collected will be used to modify old practices
and design new practices as required.
2.31       Several PNG institutions have some capability to carry out this research, but their
capacity is restricted by a shortage of trained research staff. Implementation of the population
policy will generate a demand for statisticians and health personnel with training in demography
and population studies. The Population Studies Program in the Department of Geography,
University of Papua New Guinea (UPNG) offers courses in demography, and there is some
dernographic training in the Department of Community Medicine.
2.32       The Project will increase research and training capacity by providing (i) a social
scientist and a counterpart at the PNG Institute of Medical Research (PNGIMR); (ii) at the
Department of Community Medicine, UPNG (a) one population and family health specialist for
six months to review the curriculum and to develop appropriate programs to address population
policy issues; (b) two national teaching fellows, with on-campus housing and provision for
overseas study at masters' level; (c) two computers, one printer, one uninterrupted power supply
and one overhead computer display screen; and (d) support for student research projects related
to family planning; and (iii) in the Population Studies Program, UPNG funding for (a) one
national Teaching Fellow for three years; (b) two fellowships for overseas training at masters'
level; (c) training students in field research; (d) population library resources; and (e) three 486
computers, three printers, one plotter, software and computer room establishment costs.
2.33       Specific research studies will be identified during the life of the project. Research
proposals will be submitted to the Project Steering Committee (PSC) for review and approval.
The average cost of such studies is expected to be K 25,000. A budget allocation of K 75,000
per year, commencing in the second year of the project, will be made available through the
Population Planning Unit (PPU) to fund this research. During the first year an allocation will
be made for a study of changing fertility patterns among workers in the forest industry, as part
of a wider study being undertaken by the PNGIMR.
Demographic Data Collection and Utilization
2.34       Demographic data are essential for social and economic planning at the national and
provincial level and also to monitor the progress of the population project. In the past, the main
source of such data has been the census held at ten year intervals with some supplemental data
collection. However, the difficulty of collecting reliable census data in the PNG physical
environment and the long intervals between collection have limited the availability and accuracy
of population data. There is therefore a pressing need to gather demographic data more
frequently and to develop alternative methods of collecting reliable data.



- 21 -
2.35       The project will support a demographic and health sample survey (DHS) in 1995
to provide demographic, health and family planning data in the intercensal period and until a
Provincial Data System (PDS) and Civil Registration (CR) program is established nationwide.
The DHS will comprise a 5 percent sample survey of households in all provinces and will be
carried out by the National Statistical Office (NSO). The detailed content of the survey will be
determined jointly by NSO and PPU, and will include questions to aid the formulation of
strategies for family planning service delivery. The project will support technical assistance to
advise on questionnaire design and training, preparation and collection costs.
2.36       The project will also support a program of training for NSO and provincial
statistical staff to improve collection and analysis of survey, census and PDS data: (i) graduate
diploma and masters level training in demographic analysis, statistical methods and
administration; (ii) diploma level training in management of information systems and sampling;
(iii) short course training in sampling and census evaluation; and (iv) workshop training in
survey research methods for NSO and provincial statistical staff.
2.37       The Provincial Data System, which operated in the early 1980s, will be re-activated
and will be used not only to monitor the project by providing much of the data formerly
collected in censuses and surveys, but also to facilitate the expansion of CR and to provide data
for economic and social planning. The project will support a pilot PDS/CR with a view to
attracting funding from other sources to re-establish the system nationwide. The pilot will be
established in East New Britain, administered by the NSO in Port Moresby. East New Britain
was selected because it is one of the project provinces and some recent PDS data have been
collected by the Provincial Statistician although not yet computerized. The objective of the pilot
will be to develop a process for (i) computerizing and managing data; and (ii) delivering results
in an easily understood form by means of self-explanatory, interactive computer software.
Interested parties, including line departments and community governments, will be able to extract
information from the database with little or no special training. PDS data will be updated
biennially by provincial statistical officers and CR will be carried out continually by the Office
of the Registrar General.
2.38       The project will support (i) technical assistance to review progress in CR to date
and to explore the legal requirements for a CR system to be run in conjunction with a PDS; (ii)
technical assistance to determine the structure and components of the PDS/CR database; purchase
of customized software to manage the database and interface with users; (iii) digitization of
Census Unit boundaries; (iv) purchase of two computers and two printers to run the pilot system
in East New Britain and a copy at the NSO in Port Moresby; (v) installation and training; and
(vi) position of a data entry clerk.
D. MON1TORING AND EVALUATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.39       Careful monitoring of the project will be a critical task for project management at
both NDOH and PPU. The most critical long-term benchmark will be created by the 1995
DHS. The baseline information obtained from this survey will be a measure of key demographic
trends, and its satisfactory completion will be a major contribution of this project.



- 22 -
2.40       It is intended to monitor the progress of this project through a series of process
indicators, determining whether planned activities have been carried out. Through careful
surveillance of project inputs, the performance of government departments and other institutions
in implementing project activities will be followed. Annex 9 contains a detailed description of
the project monitoring and evaluation program.
2.41       The issue of monitoring progress will be one of the subjects to be discussed at the
launch workshop, to be held once the project receives approval. Personnel of the provincial
Divisions of Health, with some NDOH staff, will meet to make workplans for implementation
of the activities agreed upon for their provinces. At this time a practical list of process and
outcome indicators will be further defined, referring to those already in use in the information
system, with additions relevant to the project objectives. Indicators of service quality will be
included. The method, frequency and source of collection for each will be defined. This set
of indicators will form the basis of the regular reporting and review activities of the provincial
managers and also for overall monitoring of this component of the project. The outcome of
these decisions will provide the source of information to be considered by the PSC along with
a concomitant exercise by the PPU to finalize the indicators to be used for other project
components.
2.42       The three funding agencies will conduct at least two joint supervision missions a
year to supervise the project. One of these missions, timed to coincide with the beginning of
the budget cycle in PNG, will undertake an annual project review and project planning exercise,
during which progress will be assessed and major decisions made about future activities. A mid-
term assessment of project progress and achievements will be conducted towards the end of 1995
or early 1996. A detailed supervision plan is contained in Annex 10.
Management
2.43       The project embraces a wide range of activities such as civil works, contraceptive
supply, education and research. These diverse activities will be mainly implemented by three
national government departments and by provincial governments. There will also be NGO
involvement. The project is geographically dispersed with much of the family planning activity
taking place in five selected provinces and National Capital District (NCD). The essential
management requirements for a project of this nature are: (i) co-ordination of the project
activities of all participating organizations; (ii) monitoring of all project activities with an
accompanying capacity for rapid response to the findings of the monitoring system; (iii) a central
organizational unit to oversee all the project activities and to provide a focus for project
management; and (iv) flexibility to adjust management forms and practices in line with changing
demands and circumstances.
2.44       In summary, the general management responsibilities will be as follows:
(a)   National Population Council (NPC): The NPC will be responsible for policy
advice and overseeing implementation of all population and family planning
activities in PNG. The NPC will be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister. The
NPC has been established.
(b)   Project Steering Committee (PSC): The PSC will have the overall responsibility
for guiding the project, making decisions and resolving issues which may arise.



- 23 -
The PSC will coordinate the preparation of annual implementation plans which will
be developed in concert with the Government's annual budget cycle and will be
reviewed by the funding agencies each September. The PSC, chaired by the
Project Manager who will be the First Assistant Secretary, Social Planning
Division, DFP, will comprise permanent representatives from the three major,
national government departments involved (DFP, NDOH, DRHAY). The Project
Steering Committee will be the central management unit with authority over the
day-to-day management of the project. The PSC has been established.
(c)   Department of Finance and Planning: The Population Planning Unit, located
within the Social Planning Division of DFP, will have the overall responsibility of
ensuring the implementation of PSC decisions, coordinating project activities
particularly those undertaken through DRHAY and the research institutions,
liaising with the donors and preparing project related reports. In general, the PPU
will be responsible for non-service delivery components and the NDOH for service
activities. The PPU of the DFP will act as Secretariat to both the PSC and the
NPC. It will have direct responsibility for research institutions and the NSO. It
will also have linkages to the two other major participating departments in the
project - NDOH and DRHAY;
(d)  National Department of Health: NDOH will be answerable for the conduct of
those activities for which it is directly responsible, including training, health and
family planning promotion and the supply and distribution of contraceptives and
related drugs and will closely coordinate with the provincial divisions of health
about implementation of all provincial activities. The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) of the NDOH will be linked directly to the PSC and to the PPU and will
have responsibility for monitoring and assisting implementation by the provincial
departments and units within the NDOH; and
(e)   Divisions  of Women's  Affairs  and  Non-Government Organizations,
Department of Religion, Home Affairs and Youth: DRHAY will have
responsibility for women's and NGO activities and will be linked directly to the
PSC and to the PPU through the PSC.
2.45       The organizational relationships of the project management are expressed
diagrammatically in Annex 6. A detailed description of the management structure and functions
is given in Annex 7. Office equipment, training and technical assistance, consisting of an overall
project adviser, project administrator and a technical adviser at NDOH will be provided to
strengthen management capabilities; the terms of reference are included in Annex 4. The terms
of reference for the senior project adviser, health promotion specialist, NGO program facilitator
and pharmaceutical supply system specialist have been approved by the Department of Personnel
Management (DPM), and the senior project adviser, health promotion specialist and NGO
program facilitator will be recruited prior to loan effectiveness (para.5. 1).
Implementation
2.46       The project will be implemented over a five year period through existing
government structures, mainly the PPU at DFP and the PIU at NDOH, whose capacities will be
enhanced through increased staff and technical assistance to cope with the expected additional



- 24 -
work burden. As a recent structure, the PPU has had no experience in implementing projects.
In contrast, the PIU located within the Policy, Planning and Evaluation Unit of the
Administration Division of NDOH has had approximately 10 years experience in coordinating
health projects funded by the Asian Development Bank. This experience will be built upon and
the PIU developed and expanded so that it also performs coordinating functions for this project
and for other projects that may be externally funded.
2.47       The implementation schedule is presented in Annex 8. The project completion date
will be June 30, 1998 and the loan closing date June 30, 1999.
Status of Project Preparation
2.48       The duty statements for the additional staff positions to be created under the project
have been agreed and the creation of these positions has been approved by DPM. The terms of
reference for the identified technical assistance (para.2. 12) have been approved by DPM. No
site acquisition is required for the civil works, for almost all civil works is at existing sites
owned by the various health departments. Preliminary discussions have been held with the
Department of Works about the design and construction of additions to existing buildings and
the new facilities. A general design for extensions to health centers to accommodate the
MCH/FP clinics has been prepared but will require modification on a case-by-case basis prior
to construction. Detailed lists of medical equipment have been drawn up and costs estimated.
Discussions have been held with UNICEF as potential suppliers of some medical equipment.



- 25 -
3
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. CosT EsnsATES
3.1         Summary of Project Costs. Project costs are estimated at K 31.2 million or
US$32.7 million equivalent including identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 3.1 and 3.2
summarize the estimated costs by project component and by category of expenditure,
respectively. Detailed costs are provided in Annex 11.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Kina million          USS million      as % of
Component                       Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Total
Family Planning Service Delivery:
East New Britain                 1.0    0.5    1.5    1.0    0.5    1.5    36
Eastem Highlands                 0.9    0.5    1.4    0.9    0.6    1.5    36
Morobe                           0.8    0.5    1.3    0.9    0.5    1.4    35
Nat'l Capital District           0.9    0.5    1.4    1.0    0.5    1.5    36
Southern Highlands               0.9    0.5    1.4    1.0    0.5    1.5    36
Westem Highlands                 0.9    0.5    1.4    0.9    0.5    1.4    36
Other Provinces                  0.4    0.1    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.5    20
Nat'l Dept. of Health            1.2    1.5    2.7    1.3    1.6    2.9    55
Subtotal                       7.0    4.6   11.6    7.4    4.8   12.2    40
Program Support:
Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical
Logistic System                 1.5    4.3    5.8    1.6    4.5    6.1    74
Support for NGOs                 0.8    0.2    1.0    0.8    0.3    1.1    25
Promotion of Health &
Family Planning                 1.1    1.6    2.7    1.2    1.6    2.8    58
Pop & F/P Research               0.4    0.5    0.9    0.4    0.5    0.9    60
Demographic Data                 0.8    0.6    1.4    0.8    0.7    1.5    43
Project Management               1.0    1.8    2.8    1.0    1.9    2.9    64
Subtotal                       5.6    9.0   14.6    5.8    9.5   15.3    62
Baseline Cost                 12.6   13.6   26.2   13.2   14.3   27.5        L
Contingencies:
Physical                       0.6    0.6    1.2    0.6    0.7    1.3    54
Price Increase                 2.2    1.6    3.8    2.3    1.6    3.9    42
Subtotal                       2.8    2.2    5.0    2.9    2.3    5.2    44
Total Proiect Cost /a           15.4   15.8   31.2   16.1   16.6   32.7    Li
/a  Includes identifiable local taxes estimated at US$150,000 equivalent. Contraceptives, drugs ad
equipment items imported under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes.



- 26 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Kina million          USS million       as % of
Category                         Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Total
Civil works                       2.4    1.3    3.7    2.5    1.4    3.9    35
Equipment, furniture and vehicles  0.5    1.0    1.5    0.5    1.1    1.6    67
Contraceptives and drugs          0.2    3.2    3.4    0.2    3.4    3.6    95
IEC and media production          1.2    0.7    1.9    1.2    0.8    2.0    40
Training:
Training of trainers            0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.2    30
Domestic training               2.2    0.6    2.8    2.4    0.6    3.0    21
Overseas training               0.1     1.0    1.1    0.1       1.0    1.1    95
Technical assistance:
Project support                 0.6    1.5    2.1    0.6        1.6    2.2    73
Capacity building               0.8    2.6    3.4    0.8    2.7    3.5    75
Policy support                  0.1    0.3    0.4    0.1    0.3    0.4    90
Studies                           0.2    0.2    0.4    0.2    0.2    0.4    48
Demographic survey                0.7    0.3    1.0    0.8    0.3    1.1    30
NGO field activities              0.5    0.2    0.7    0.5    0.2    0.7    20
Related operating costs:
Incremental salaries             1.5    0.0    1.5    1.6    0.0    1.6         0
Operations and maintenance      1.5    0.6    2.1    1.6    0.6    2.2    29
Baseline cost                 12.    13.6   26.2    13.2   14.3   27.5    52
Contingencies:
Physical                        0.6    0.6    1.2    0.6    0.7    1.3    54
Price Increase                  2.2    1.6    3.8    2.3    1.6    3.9    42
Subtotal                               2      50      2-2     2 3     5 2     44
Total Project Cost /a            15.4   15.8    3       16.1   16.6   32.7       5 1
/a  Includes identifiable local taxes estimated at US$150,000 equivalent. Contraceptives, drugs and
equipment items imported under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes.



- 27 -
3.2        Basis of Cost Estimates. Base costs are expressed in December 1992 prices.
Civil works costs are based on standard cost estimates from the Department of Works.
Equipment, furniture and vehicle costs are based on agreed lists of items and on prices currently
being paid for similar items. Contraceptive and STD-related antibiotics estimates are also based
on current prices being paid for similar items and on the projected demands.
Contraceptives/STD-related antibiotics and equipment imported under the project, would be
exempt from import duties. Duties on imported construction materials are estimated to average
about 9 percent. Cost estimates for training of trainers are based on costs being incurred for
similar training being undertaken under other projects in PNG. Domestic training costs vary
widely depending on the type of training being given and its location, and range from K 300 per
one-day workshop for 20 community leaders to K 6,400 per one-week training course for 24
senior nurses and sisters-in-charge. Overseas training costs are estimated in the range of K 20-
25,000 per study-year for degree programs and at an average of K 6,000 per participant for
short-term study visits. The estimated costs of specialist services are based on unit costs of
similar services and activities in programs currently being implemented in Papua New Guinea.
Costs of consultants includes housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence, fees, overheads and
internal travel. The technical assistance program, including costs, is detailed in Annex 12, while
Annex 13 provides the year and source of funding for technical assistance. Salaries of additional
staff are based on the government salary scale and related operating costs on standard allowances
and travel costs.
3.3        Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical conditions and for estimated price increases. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 5 percent for all project items except for the support for non-government
organizations where no physical contingencies are provided. Price contingencies are estimated
on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 8) and on expected annual average price
increase of 5.5 percent for local costs and 3.7 percent for foreign costs throughout the project
period. Accordingly, total contingencies represent about 19 percent of baseline costs, of which
14 percent is the aggregated price contingencies of the baseline costs plus physical contingencies
and 5 percent is the physical contingencies.
3.4         Foreign Exchange Costs. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated
at about K 15.8 million (US$16.6 million equivalent) including contingencies, which represent
about 51 percent of the total project cost. The foreign exchange percentages for the major
categories of expenditures are estimated as follows: (a) civil works and furniture - 35 percent;
(b) equipment, vehicles, contraceptives and STD-related antibiotics--95 percent; (c) IEC and
media production - 40 percent; (d) domestic training and in-country consultants - 20 percent;
(e) overseas training - 95 percent; (f) international consultants - 90 percent; (g) demographic
survey - 30 percent; (h) incremental salaries - 0 percent; and (i) related operations and
maintenance - 30 percent.
3.5        Recurrent Costs and Sustainability.  Under the proposed project additional
recurrent costs would be generated mainly by: (a) the recruitment of additional staff required for
implementation of the population program and for strengthening of health promotion activities
in NDOH; and (b) needs for additional supervision and training budgets to sustain the proposed
improvement in the delivery of family planning services. The annual incremental recurrent cost
generated upon completion of the project is estimated to be about K 0.85 million which
represents about 1.5 percent of the NDOH and five provincial health recurrent budgets in 1991.
The proposed project is the first stage towards achieving government population objectives and



- 28 -
the program will need to extend over several decades. To sustain the population program in the
longer term it will be necessary to maintain the supply of contraceptives and promotion
activities. Although it is difficult to estimate the expected rise in demand for contraceptives,
it is probable that an annual 5 percent increase in supply will be needed at the end of the project,
amounting to an annual increase of about US$40,000. Experience with family planning
programs in other countries indicates that there is a case for maintaining support for
contraceptive supplies. It is also difficult to estimate future family planning promotion costs,
which vary enormously depending on the approaches taken. However, direct program costs are
likely to prove insignificant compared with potential savings in health, education and
child-raising costs as birth rates decline. Over the long-term, the environmental and economic
costs of significant continued population growth would outweigh the investments required to
moderate fertility levels. To ease the long-term financial burden of these investments on the
Government, the project also aims to maximize the capacity of the private sector and non-
governmental organizations to deliver family planning services.
B. FINANCING
3.6        The proposed IBRD loan of US$6.9 million equivalent would finance about
21 percent of the total estimated project costs, net of estimated duties and taxes (about
US$150,000 equivalent). The Asian Development Bank would co-finance US$6.8 million, on
a parallel basis using Asian Development Fund resources, which represents about 73 percent of
costs of the three components - the contraceptive/pharmaceutical logistic system; the health and
family planning promotion; and the support for non-government organizations. The ADB
financing would represent about 21 percent of total estimated costs, net of duties and taxes. The
Government of Australia (AIDAB) would co-finance, with a grant of US$10.0 million on a
parallel basis, the domestic and overseas family planning service delivery training, the data
collection activities and the project management. AIDAB financing would represent about
31 percent of total estimated project costs, net of duties and taxes. Together, the three external
agencies would provide US$23.7 million representing 73 percent of total estimated project costs,
net of duties and taxes. The Government of PNG would be responsible for the remaining
US$9.0 million (27 percent of total estimated project costs), including duties and taxes. Project
financing would be in accordance with Table 3.3. Prior to loan effectiveness all conditions
precedent to the ADB loan agreement and the Memorandum of Understanding of AIDAB will
have been complied with (para. 5.1).
3.7        Theflow offunds to project implementing agencies would be in conformity with
the current GOPNG budgeting system and procedures for financing foreign assisted development
projects. Based on the approved annual budget, PPU/DFP, PIU/NDOH, DWA/DRHAY and
the Provincial Divisions of Finance (PDFs) in the five project provinces and NCD would, at the
commencement of project implementation, (a) prepare and submit quarterly cash flow statements
for respective planned project activities to the Office of International Development Assistance
(OIDA) of the DFP, and send copies to the Project Accountant in PPU/DFP; (b) on the basis
of these statements, OIDA would determine project financing requirements for the first quarter
and would authorize the Treasury to release to the project implementing agencies the required
funds for the first quarter; (c) PPU, PIU, DRHAY and PDFs would submit to OIDA, on a
monthly basis, revised cash flow statements and statements of actual expenditures incurred and
paid for, with copies to the Project Accountant of PPU; (d) OIDA would then authorize the
Treasury to withdraw from the Special Account, the Bank's share of actual expenditures
incurred, and reimburse GOPNG (para. 3.15); (e) on the basis of (c) and (d) above, withdrawal



- 29 -
applications would be submitted by OIDA to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account,
or for reimbursement in the case of payments above US$200,000; and (f) funds reimbursed to
GOPNG from the Special Account could then be used to prefinance expenditures for subsequent
quarters. Funds to NGOs would be channelled through the DRHAY (para.2.20). To monitor
the flow of funds for family planning service delivery activities, a separate line item in the
appropriate budgets will be established to identify budget allocations for MCH/FP (para. 5.1).
3.8        Financial support for NGO activities is provided by ADB. The Government is
seeking grant financing through AIDAB for these activities. In the event that such financing is
secured and agreement is reached that the NGO activities identified under the project would be
so financed, then that portion of the ADB loan would be either cancelled or directed to other
project activities.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Estimated
share of
GOPNG    ADB   AIDAB IBRD    Total    IBRD
Category of Expenditure          ----------------------- US$ million ---- ----------- financing
Civil works                         0.4      0.7       -   3.4      4.5       76
Equipment, furniture and
vehicles                           0.1      0.8     0.1   0.8      1.8       44
Contraceptives and STD drugs        3.1        -       -    1.1     4.2       26
IEC and media production            0.5       1.9      -    -       2.4        0
Training and studies                 -        0.3     4.7  0.6      5.6        11
Consultant services                  -       2.3      3.9   1.0     7.2       14
Demographic survey                   -         -      1.3    -      1.3        0
NGO field activities                0.2       0.8      -    -       1.0        0
Incremental recurrent costs         4.7        -       -    -       4.7        0
Total                         9.0      6.8    10.0  6.9    32.7         21
C. PROCUREMENT
3.9        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4 below.
3.10       Civil works (estimated value US$4.5 million equivalent, of which US$0.7 million
to be financed by ADB) would comprise renovation and/or extension of: (i) 63 district health/FP
centers in five provinces and NCD; (ii) two area medical stores in two provinces; (iii)
construction of a health promotion center at NDOH; (iv) eight staff houses in three provinces
and NCD; and (v) a new facility for the Council of Women in Western Highlands. Individual
contracts for specific locations, which are expected to average US$100,000 equivalent each, are
not expected to attract foreign bidders due to (i) their small contract amounts and (ii) the
scattered location of the sites. Contracts for civil works would thus be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, totalling to an aggregate



- 30 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement                      Total cost
procedures                       including
ICB    LCB       Others La  N.B.F.   contingencies
Civil works                           2.3         1.5      0.7         4.5
(2.0)      (1.4)                (3.4)
Equipment, furniture and              0.6        0.3       0.9         1.8
vehicles                            (0.6)      (0.2)                 (0.8)
Contraceptives and STD drugs    4.2                                    4.2
(1 .1)                                  (1 .1)
IEC & media production                                     2.4         2.4
Training and studies                             0.6       5.0         5.6
(0.6)                (0.6)
Consultant services                               1.0      6.2         7.2
(1.0)                (1.0)
Demographic survey                                         1.3         1.3
NGO field activities                                       1.0         1.0
Incremental recurrent costs                                4.7         4.7
Lotal                    4.2     L2         2       22L2        327
(1. 1)  (2.6)     (3.2)    (0-0)        (6.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank. N.B.F.: Not
Bank-Financed including parallel financing from ADB and AIDAB.
La  Includes local prudent shopping, purchase through UNICEF, force account for civil works
construction in remote areas, and selection of consultants following Bank Guidelines.
value of US$2.3 million equivalent. Contracts below US$50,000 may be awarded to qualified
contractors after comparing at least three quotations to an aggregate value of US$1.0 million
equivalent. In remote areas, in particular in the highlands provinces where local contractors do
not operate or are not available, renovation and extension works (averaging US$40,000 each)
at district health/FP centers may be carried out by Department of Works force account through
hiring local day labor for the period necessary to complete the work, up to an aggregate total
value of US$0.5 million. Contracts for three area medical stores and the health promotion center
(estimated total value US$0.7 million equivalent), which will be financed by the ADB, would
be awarded in accordance with ADB procurement procedures.



- 31 -
3.11       Equipment items (estimated value US$1.4 million equivalent, of which US$0.8
million to be financed by the ADB and US$0.1 million by AIDAB) include small medical
equipment and health kits for MCH/FP centers/clinics and hospitals, computers, office and
training equipment and materials, and vehicles. To the extent practicable contraceptives and
S7D-related antibiotics (estimated value USS4.2 million equivalent) would be grouped into bid
packages costing US$100,000 or more and would be bid through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Because of the low value and
limited quantity of each item, all other goods can not be appropriately grouped into packages
suitable for ICB. Small medical equipment and health kits for health centers and hospitals
(estimated value US$0.3 million equivalent) would be procured through a UN agency
(UNICEF/UNFPA) following the agency's procedures, which is acceptable to the Bank. Other
equipment items including computers, copying machines and vehicles (estimated value US$0.2
million equivalent) would be procured on the basis of LCB acceptable to the Bank. Foreign
suppliers of computers and vehicles are well represented in PNG and would assure competitive
prices. Miscellaneous items not exceeding US$50,000 in value could be procured through
prudent shopping on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers, eligible under
Bank guidelines, while computer software and books may be procured through direct purchase
after negotiations with the publishers or their authorized distributors, subject to an aggregate total
of US$0.1 million equivalent. Equipment for the two ADB-financed components (estimated total
value US$0.8 million equivalent) would be procured in accordance with ADB procurement
procedures and those to be financed by AIDAB (estimated value US$0.1 million) would be
purchased following AIDAB procedures. Furniture (estimated total value US$0.3 million
equivalent) would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. For IEC and
media production under the promotion of health and family planning component to be financed
by the ADB (estimated value US$2.4 million equivalent), ADB procedures would be followed.
3.12       Consultants for the senior project adviser, clinical training and curriculum
development and population and family planning research activities, to be financed by the IBRD
loan (estimated value US$ 1.0 million), would be selected in accordance with bank guidelines for
Use of Consultants. Other consultants required under the project to be financed by (i) ADB for
the contraceptive/pharmaceutical logistic system, promotion of health and family planning and
support for NGO's (estimated total value US$2.3 million), and (ii) AIDAB for provincial family
planning service delivery training, provincial database system, women in development and
project management (estimated total value US$3.9 million) would be selected in accordance with
their respective procedures.
3.13       Prior review by the Bank would be required for: (a) ICB documents for the
procurement of contraceptives and STD drugs; (b) the initial sets of bidding documents for
procurement of works and goods through LCB, which would subsequently be used as standard
master documents for the project; and (c) award recommendations for award of contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent for works and goods. It is estimated that about 26 percent of the total
value under the proposed project, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-review or required review by cofinanciers
D. DISBURSEMENtS
3.14       The proposed loan of US$6.9 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period
of about six years (Annex 14). The disbursement schedule is based on the implementation
schedule (Annex 8), which is shorter than the standard disbursement profile of seven-and-a-half



- 32 -
years for all Bank-assisted projects in Papua New Guinea. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by the June 30, 1999, closing date, and would be made against the following
categories of expenditure: (a) civil works--90 percent of expenditures; (b) equipment, furniture
and vehicles--100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and vehicles
or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured items, and
70 percent of expenditures for locally procured equipment items and furniture; (c) contraceptives
and STD drugs--26 percent of expenditures; and (d) specialist services, training and studies--
100 percent of expenditures. Full documentation would be required by the Bank to support
withdrawal applications for all specialist services, overseas training, studies, and for all other
contracts above US$100,000 equivalent. Disbursements for civil works, equipment, furniture
and vehicles contracts below US$100,000 equivalent and for in-country training would be made
on the basis of itemized statements of expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for SOE
expenditures would be retained by the PPU/DFP, the PIU/NDOH and the DRHAY, and made
available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions.
3.15       To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established and maintained
in Kina at the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The initial deposit would be in the amount of
US$0.5 million, the estimated average of four months' expenditures, and would be used to make
payments in all categories of less than US$100,000 equivalent for both foreign and local
expenditures. All other expenditures above this amount could be submitted directly to the Bank
for payment. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made monthly or whenever the
available balance in the account drops below 50 percent of the authorized initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. Withdrawal applications for direct payment and special commitment
would be a minimum of US$100,000 per application and supported by appropriate
documentation.
E. ACcOuNTS, AUDITS AND REPORTs
3.16       Separate project accounts would be established and maintained by each of the
implementing agencies (DFP, NDOH, DRHAY and PDFs) for their respective expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting practices.  Project accounts and separate accounts of
statements of expenditure would be prepared annually by each of the implementing agencies and
submitted to the PPU/DFP which would prepare consolidated project accounts for audits. The
consolidated project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.15) would be audited in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year, the Bank would be provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
SOE. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the Government would provide the
required reports. The PPU would also monitor progress in project implementation and submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank, ADB and AIDAB in March and September each year.



- 33 -
4
BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEF1TS
4.1        The project will assist the Government to develop systematic and effective family
planning services and referral for a broader range of female health services which will contribute
to female and child health. In the medium term, greater use of family planning will result in
lower fertility and lead to a moderation of population growth. Better access to family planning
may be expected to contribute towards an amelioration of social tensions arising, in part, from
a breakdown of traditional family patterns and values. Eventually, lower birth rates will lead
to enhanced prospects for human resource development and improved and more sustainable
social and economic development. Availability of reliable demographic information will
strengthen government's ability to monitor social development and to improve the basis for
making informed decisions about future development strategies.  In the longer term,
environmental management may expect to benefit from a moderated rate of population growth.
B. RISKS
4.2         There is broad support within the community for a population program. However,
expectations of any rapid decrease in fertility have to be tempered by experience from other
countries and particularly by recognition of the low educational attainment and restricted access
to information characteristic of PNG. A long term and sustained effort will be required which
may test political resolve and which emphasizes the need to deeply involve community based
organizations. In the short term, institutional issues are a concern for management capabilities
within the responsible agencies remain weak. A project steering committee has been established
to oversee project implementation and technical assistance will be provided to assist project
management.



- 34 -
5
AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        The following conditions of loan effectiveness were agreed during loan negotiation;
(a)   key  staffing  positions  will  have  been  recruited   and  posted
(para. 2.8);
(b)  the  long-term   adviser  positions  (including  the  senior  project
adviser, health promotion specialist and NGO program facilitator) will have been
recruited (para. 2.45);
(c)  all conditions precedent to the ADB loan agreement and the Memorandum of
Understanding of AIDAB have been complied with by the borrower (para.3.6); and
(d)  approvals necessary for establishment of a separate budget line item for MCH/FP
activities conducted under the National Department of Health, East New Britain,
Eastern Highlands, Morobe, Southern Highlands and Western Highlands will have
been granted (para 3.7).
5.2        The following subjects are covered by specific covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a)  for those staff positions which will not necessarily be filled under the terms of loan
effectiveness, the dates of their posting;
(b)  the appointment for the Director, Family Planning at the Department of Clinical
Science by September 30, 1993; and
(c)  the timing of the mid-term review, which is expected to be conducted in 1995
depending on project progress.
Recommendation
5.3        Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$6.9 million equivalent to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



-35 -                             ANNEX 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATON AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
FAMILY PLANNiNG SERVICE DELIVERY -
DETAn LD PRoJEcT DEsCRIMrON
The strategies which will be followed to implement and strengthen family planning
service delivery capacity in the regions targeted under this project include:
(a)  support  family  planning  services  in  existing   service  delivery
centers through improved training, management, supervision, supplies, equipment
and clinic facilities;
(b)  increase  understanding  and  involvement  of  men  and  women  in
population/FP issues, and acceptance of family planning, through communication
and community initiatives; and
(c)  support development of provincial population policy and its integration into
provincial level planning.
The detailed description of activities to be pursued in each of the targeted areas is
given below.
A. EAST NEW BRITAIN PROVINCE
Project Activities
Meetings of key officials in the Division of Health with their counterparts in other
project provinces will be arranged annually for briefing on the overall scope and objectives of
the project, and for preparation of yearly action plans which will be submitted to the Provincial
Government and to PIU, to serve as guide for project implementation.
Training of FP trainers (TOT) in Port Moresby will be arranged for 3 selected
nursing staff in the first year of the project, and an additional one in the third year. A refresher
course will be given in alternate years.
A comprehensive training program, involving up to 450 people will be conducted
in the province, building on the present in-service activities in FP/MCH, with elements suitable
for service delivery, supervision and management, and community education. Within the health
service there will be orientation programs for health administrators and section heads, planning
and supervision workshops for Officers and Sisters in Charge of health centers and in-service
courses for community health and hospital staff of all categories. The program will include
training for male health workers to counsel men on family planning matters, and annual two day
seminars in Rabaul for doctors and senior nurses, led by visiting authorities from PNG and
overseas.



- 36 -                             ANNEX 1
Provision will also be made for selected nursing staff to take clinical FP training
overseas.
Supervision of FP/MCH services will be strengthened through the provision of a
vehicle to the MCH/FP section for health center visits. Some funds for air and boat travel and
for overnight stays will be included. Supervision principles and procedures will be developed
duiing training programs for the officers involved.
Civ;l Works. New clinic space suitable for FP counselling and service with a
training room, office and store is proposed for the Rabaul Town Clinic. Extensions will also
be built at selected health centers with high MCH/FP workload. Appropriate furniture and
equipment will be provided. Two staff houses will be built to accommodate those occupying the
proposed new positions (see below).
Equipment to be provided will comprise kits for health centers offering clinical FP
services, some training equipment and office equipment including a photocopier and computer
for word processing and data management.  Training will be organized and procedures
established for correct use, maintenance and storage of the equipment, and for regular inventory
reviews.
East New Britain, along with other project provinces, will participate in review and
updating of the management information system for MCH/FP. This will remain compatible with
the current health information system, but incorporate some additional data for use by managers
at provincial level. Stationery, software and training for this will be provided for in the project.
Program Management
The Assistant Secretary Health will be the project coordinator in the province,
reporting plans and progress to the Provincial Development Team (PDT), chaired by the
Provincial Secretary, on a quarterly basis. After approval or amendment by the PDT, the report
will be forwarded through the Provincial Executive Committee to the Provincial Assembly, with
a copy to the Project Implementation Unit in Port Moresby.
To improve the management of FP services the position of Family Planning
Coordinator will be established, with a channel of communication to the Matron of Community
Health Nursing Services. A second new position will be provided for FP Counsellor with
special responsibility for counselling and educating men. The logistics and clerical duties
associated with the project will be carried out by existing staff in the Division.
Financial administration of project funds will the responsibility of the Provincial
Division of Finance, with delegation to the Assistant Secretary Health, following procedures
currently used for ADB operational funds. Funds for civil works under the project will also go
to the province for use by the Provincial Works Division.



-37 -                             ANNEX I
Project Initiation
An appropriately designed orientation program will be organized for government
officials, politicians and community leaders, following which a working group will be convened
to draft a provincial population policy.
Orientation visits to a neighboring country with an active FP program will be
arranged for two selected Health Division Officers in each of the first two years of the program.
Health Promotion for Family Planning
The Provincial Health Educator will be trained and assisted to carry out the role of
manager of health promotion for the Division of Health. A technical assistance package for
health promotion in the province will include:  (i) training workshops on communication
planning, research and implementation for a core group of government and non-government
personnel, including the health educator, NBC staff, Social Action Committee and Provincial
Communications Division; (ii) supervision and technical support from the NDOH Health
Promotion Center during planning and implementation of a FP communication intervention;
(iii) policy guidelines on the health promotion program goals and objectives; (iv) nationally
produced communication materials in print, video and audio-cassette format for use in health
promotion and in-service training. Translation and adaptation for local use will be possible,
provided the technical content remains consistent with national standards.
Funds will be provided for development, adaptation and pretesting of local
promotional materials (print, radio, video) as well as for the conduct of both quantitative and
qualitative research in support of design and evaluation of the health promotion program. Local
resources will be tapped to produce multimedia materials for use in FP health promotion efforts.
The Provincial Council of Women will be assisted to train selected members from
each community women's association to deliver the women's health and family planning
components of the national women's training package, and to organize community based
distribution of contraceptive supplies in selected areas, in liaison with the Division of Health.
Technical Assistance from national or external sources will be provided for specific
aspects of project implementation. An external adviser will support the project provinces in the
first two years to assist with orientation and start-up activities, the establishment of supervision
and monitoring procedures and with problem solving in the early stages. A national training
manager, based in Port Moresby, will support the training of trainers and make follow-up visits
to the provinces to help the local personnel from time to time. Technical assistance in health
promotion and in continued development of the management information system for MCH/FP
will also be provided. A facilitator for NGO initiatives will also cover the five project provinces
and NCD.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1
B. EASTERN HIGHLANDS PROVINCE
Project Activities
The project will build on the existing work in FP training and service activities,
particularly the foundation laid by the SEATS project.
Meetings of key officials in the Division of Health with their counterparts in other
project provinces will be arranged annually for briefing on the overall scope, objectives and
progress of the project and for preparation of yearly action plans which will be submitted to the
Provincial Government and to the Project Implementation Unit, to serve as a guide for project
implementation.
Training and refresher course of FP Trainers (TOT) will be arranged for
selected nursing staff, including those involved in the SEATS training courses.
A comprehensive training program in FP and MCH, involving up to 400 health
workers, and 200 community and church leaders, will be conducted, with elements suitable for
service delivery, supervision and management, and community education. Within the Health
Division there will be orientation programs for health administrators and section heads. planning
and supervision workshops for Officers and Sisters in Charge of health centers and sub-centers
and in-service courses for community health and hospital health staff of all categories, both
mission and government. There will be an annual one-day seminar for church leaders and their
invitees in Goroka. One-day information and education courses for local community leaders will
also be organized by the senior staff (OIC, SIC) of health centers and sub-centers.
Two days of training and seminars will be conducted annually by visiting FP
experts, consisting of one day for doctors in government, mission, private practice and at the
Institute of Medical Research, and one day for senior nursing staff. One of the experts will be
from overseas and one from within PNG, on a tour covering all project provinces.
Short overseas courses in clinical and management aspects of FP will be arranged
in a suitable nearby country.
Supervision of FP/MCH services will be strengthened by two new posts (see
below) supported by a vehicle to be allocated to the Community Health Nursing supervisor for
training and supervision. Some funds for air travel and for overnight stays will be included.
Supervision principles and procedures will be developed during training programs for the officers
involved.
Civil Works. It is proposed that additional space for FP counselling and service
be included in the second urban clinic for Goroka, to be constructed soon. The MCH clinic
building at Goroka Hospital will be renovated and the space used for children converted for
maternal care and FP, if funds for a new children's clinic are made available. There will be an
extension to the Health Division's administrative block in the hospital grounds to accommodate
the Community Health Nursing section, including the FP Coordinator. Selected health centers
and sub-centers will be extended to provide more space and privacy for mothers attending clinic
or outpatients. In some health centers, waiting houses for pregnant mothers will be constructed
from local materials, to encourage supervised delivery.



- 39 -                            ANNEX 1
Equipment to be provided will comprise kits for health centers offering clinical FP
services, selected training equipment, and items for the FP Coordinator's officer, including a
computer for word processing and data management.
Eastern Highlands, along with other project provinces, will participate in review
and updating of the collection and processing of information related to the management of the
MCH/FP program. This will be supplementary to but remain compatible with the current health
information system. Stationery, software and training for this will be provided for in the project.
Program Management
The Assistant Secretary Health will be the Project Coordinator for the province,
reporting plans and progress to the Provincial Management Team, chaired by the Provincial
Secretary, on a quarterly basis and also to the Project Implementation Unit in National
Department of Health.
The position of Provincial FP Coordinator, proposed in the new provincial structure
will be supported by the project, as will an additional position for MCH/FP Supervisor based
in Kainantu, and additional accounts clerk position in the Health Division office in Goroka.
Project Initiation
An orientation program will be organized for government officials, politicians and
community leaders, following which a working group will be convened to draft a provincial
population policy.
Orientation visits to a neighboring country with an active FP program will be
arranged for selected Health personnel in the early part of the project.
Promotion of Family Planning
The project will provide technical assistance in training a core group of potential
implementors of FP promotion activities in communications planning, project implementation
and communication research. It will also provide funds for local production of print, video and
radio materials. Technical assistance will be in the following specific areas: (i) training
workshops on communication planning, research and management, aimed at developing and
implementing a behavior change strategy to increase use of family planning; (ii) materials
production, pretesting and distribution; (iii) supervision and technical support from the NDOH
Health Promotion Center during planning and implementation of a FP promotion campaign;
(iv) policy guidelines on FP promotion goals and the medical content of FP messages; and
(v) nationally produced communications materials in print, video and radio formats for use in
promotion activities and health worker training. Translation and adaptation for local use will
be possible, provided that the medical content of the messages conforms to national guidelines.
In Eastern Highlands the following core group of health promotion implementors
will be trained: the provincial health educator, Health Studies staff of the Goroka Teachers
College, Department of Culture and Tourism, (the Raun Raun local theater group and a film
production unit called Skul Bilong Wokim Piksa) and the Communication Institute which
provides certificate courses for video production, journalism and script-writing.



-40-                                ANNEX 1
Non-government Organizations. Assistance will be given to enable the Provincial
Women's Officer to increase her supervision visits to district level for community awareness
activities, and to backstop the planned support from the PNGFPA to the Provincial Council of
Women to develop a community based awareness and distribution program.
Technical assistance from national and external sources will be provided for
specific aspects of project implementation.  An external adviser will support the project
provinces in the first two years to assist with orientation and start-up activities, the establishment
of supervision and monitoring procedures and with problem solving in the early stages. A
national training manager, based in Port Moresby, will support the training of trainers and make
follow-up visits to the provinces. Technical assistance in FP promotion, as described above, and
in continued development and use of the management information system for MCH/FP will also
be provided. A facilitator for NGO initiatives will also cover the project provinces.
C. MOROBE PROVINCE
Project Activities
Meetings of key officials in the Division of Health with their counterparts in other
project provinces will be arranged annually for briefing on the overall scope and objectives of
the project, and for preparation of yearly action plans which will be submitted to the provincial
government and to PIU, to serve as a guide for project implementation.
Refresher training will be arranged for those officers already trained as FP trainers
under the SEATS program, and provision made for an additional person to receive this TOT
during the project.
A comprehensive training program, involving up to 500 people, will be conducted
in the province, building on the foundation of the SEATS funded activities, with elements
suitable for service delivery, supervision and management, and community education. Within
the health service there will be orientation programs for health administrators and section heads,
planning and supervision workshops for Officers and Sisters in Charge of health centers and in-
service courses for government, mission, NGO and privately employed health workers. The
program will include training for male health workers to counsel men on family planning
matters. Seminars for community leaders at district level will be organized by health center
officers on an annual basis, as will two day seminars in Lae for doctors and senior nurses, led
by visiting authorities from PNG and overseas.
Provision will be made for selected nursing staff to take clinical FP training
overseas.
Improved supervision of FP services will be supported through the strengthened
MCH/FP unit at provincial level and the provision of a vehicle to the unit for travelling on
supervision and training visits. Funds for air and boat travel and for overnight stays will be
included. Supervision principles and procedures will be developed during training programs for
the officers involved. Support will also be provided for doctors from Angau Hospital to visit
district health centers on a regular basis for clinical supervision of MCH/FP services and, if
appropriate conditions are met, to perform surgical contraception.



- 41-                             ANNEX 1
Civil Works. A building at the Lae School of Nursing will be renovated as an in-
service classroom and office, with priority for FP/MCH oriented programs. Extensions will be
built on to each of the 6 urban clinics in Lae for improved maternal care and FP services, and
provision will be made for renovation of the Lae Town Clinic in the Angau hospital complex,
with space for the MCH/FP unit office. Appropriate furniture will be provided. Two staff
houses will be built to accommodate those occupying the new positions in the FP unit (see
below).
Equipment to be provided will comprise kits for health centers and hospitals
offering clinical FP services, training equipment for the in-service classroom and office
equipment, including a photocopier and a computer for word processing and data management.
Training will be organized and procedures established for correct use, maintenance and storage
of the equipment.
Morobe, along with other project provinces, will participate in a review and
revision of the collection and processing of information related to management of the MCH/FP
program.  This will remain compatible with the current health information system but
incorporate additional data for use by managers at provincial level. Stationery, software and
training for this will be provided for in the project.
Program Management
The Assistant Secretary Health will be project coordinator in the province, reporting
plans and progress to the Provincial Management Team, chaired by the Provincial Secretary, and
to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in Port Moresby on a quarterly basis.
To improve the management of FP services the position of FP Coordinator will be
created, responsible through the Community Health Matron and Director of Community Services
to the Assistant Secretary Health. A second position of FP Logistics Officer, responsible to the
Community Health Matron, will also be provided, to handle a wide range of duties in support
of the FP/MCH program.
Financial administration of project funds will be the responsibility of the Provincial
Division of Finance, with financial delegation to the Division of Health, following the procedures
currently used for ADB funds coming to the province.
Project Initiation
Orientation programs will be organized for government officials, politicians and
community leaders, following which a working group will be convened to draft a provincial
population policy.
Visits to a neighboring country with an active FP program will be arranged for two
selected Health Division officers in each of the first two years of the project.
Promotion of Family Planning
Morobe has a group of potential partners in FP health promotion. These include:
Kristen Media Productions with 25 years experience in print and broadcast production, including



- 42 -                           ANNEX 1
support of the UNICEF immunization program; the NBC which broadcasts weekly Radio Dokta
programs and has conducted a radio listeners survey in collaboration with Radio Australia, the
Morobe branch of the Family Planning Association which has extension workers giving talks in
the villages, the local Dua Dua theater group which has presented dramas on nutrition and
immunization; and the Provincial Council of Women who conduct population/FP awareness
programs and produce a women's magazine.
The project will provide impetus for an integrated FP promotion campaign through:
(i) training workshops on communication planning, research and management, aimed at
developing and implementing a behavior change strategy to increase use of family planning;
(ii) materials production, pretesting and distribution; (iii) supervision and technical support from
the NDOH Health Promotion Center during planning and implementation of a FP promotion
program; (iv) provision of policy guidelines on FP promotion goals and the medical content of
FP messages; (v) provision of nationally-produced communications material (print, video and
radio) for use in promotions activities and health worker training. Translation and adaptation
for local use will be possible, provided that the medical content of the messages conforms to
national standards.
In addition, funds will be available to the province for production, pretesting and
adaptation of media materials as well as for conducting qualitative and quantitative research.
Non-government Organizations
Support for the Provincial Council of Women, through the Provincial Women's
Officer (PWO), will comprise funding for a provincial level workshop in 1994 for district
representatives on implementation of the women's health/FP component of the National
Women's Training package, and for one workshop at district level in each succeeding year of
the project. The PWO would have participated in a TOT program for this purpose in 1993 (a
centrally funded project initiative).
A fund will be created at national level to support suitable proposals from non-
government organizations as they arise during the project.
Technical Assistance from national or external sources will be provided for specific
aspects of project implementation. An external adviser will support the project provinces in the
first two years to assist with the orientation and start up activities, the establishment of
supervision and monitoring procedures and with problem solving in the early stages. A national
training manager, based in Port Moresby, will support the training of trainers and make follow-
up visits to the provinces to help the local personnel from time to time. Technical assistance in
FP promotion, as described above, and in continued development of the management information
system for MCH/FP will also be provided. A facilitator for the program to support new NGO
initiatives will also cover the project provinces.
D. NATIONAL CAPiTAL Dig cT
Project Activities
The project will build on the existing work and plans for FP services, stressing
improved management, improved availability and quality of service and community awareness.



- 43 -                            ANNEX 1
A meeting of key health personnel with their counterparts in the project provinces
will be arranged annually for briefing on the scope, progress and objectives of the project and
for preparation of yearly action plans which will be submitted to NDOH to serve as a guide for
project implementation.
Refresher training will be arranged for the FP trainers of health staff, who have
completed a TOT program in 1992.
A comprehensive training program involving up to 400 people annually will be
conducted in the District, building on the present in-service activities, with elements suitable for
service delivery, supervision and management, and community education. There will be
orientation programs for health administrators and section heads, supervision workshops for the
sisters in charge of urban clinics, and in-service courses for clinic and outreach staff. The
program will include training for male health workers to counsel men on FP matters. Health
staff of government bodies and the private sector will be included.
Annual one day FP information days will be conducted for leaders of local
community organizations, settlement communities, church groups etc., associated with each on
the nine urban clinics, and organized by the clinic staff.
lTree days of seminars will be conducted annually by experts in FP, consisting of
two one-day programs for doctors, especially those in private practice, and one day for senior
nursing staff. One of the experts will be invited from overseas and one from within PNG, on
a tour covering NCD and the project provinces.
Overseas clinical training will be organized for a small number of nursing staff.
A program for community volunteers in MCH/FP will be developed, with training
of the volunteers and their supervisors, and involvement of community leaders in monitoring and
supporting the people selected. The volunteers would assist in the urban clinics and form a link
between the service providers and clients.
Supervision of the urban clinics and outreach program will be strengthened by the
provision of an additional vehicle.
Extensions will be provided to six of the urban clinics, to allow space for private
counselling and for FP services along with necessary equipment and furnishings.
NCD participate in review and updating of the management information system for
MCH/FP. This will remain compatible with the current health information system, but
incorporate some additional data for use by the District managers.
Program Managerment
The Assistant Secretary Health will be the project coordinator for the district,
reporting plans and progress to his superior in NDOH and to the Project Implementation Unit.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 1
An additional nursing officer position will be provided for a FP Coordinator,
responsible to the Assistant Secretary Health through the Community Health Matron. Funds for
an additional Accounts Clerk position will also be provided.
Project Initiation
At the commencement of the project an orientation program will be organized for
government officials, politicians and community leaders, following which a working group will
be convened to draft a population policy for the District.
Orientation visits to a neighboring country with an active FP program will be
arranged for selected senior health personnel.
Promotion of Family Planning
A number of government and non-government agencies based in NCD can be
tapped to assist in designing and implementing a family planning promotion program. A core
group of implementors will be trained in communication planning, research and management so
that an effective FP promotion effort can be launched in NCD. This core group will also
provide technical assistance in the project provinces. The project will provide the following:
(i) training workshops on communication planning, research and management, aimed at
developing and implementing a behavior change strategy to increase use of family planning;
(ii) materials production, pretesting and distribution; (iii) supervision and technical assistance
from the NDOH Health Promotion Center during planning and implementation of a FP
promotion program; (iv) policy guidelines on FP promotion goals and the medical content of
FP messages; and (v) funds and international technical assistance in the development, pretesting
and production of FP promotional materials (print, video and radio) for use in the NCD's
promotion activities and health worker training.
Non-government Organizations
NCD will be the location of a number of national initiatives involving NGOs in FP
promotion activities. The PNGFPA will also be supported in particular aspects of its program.
A fund will be established at national level to support suitable proposals from NGOs as they
arise during the project.
Technical Assistance from national and external sources will be provided for
specific aspects of project implementation. An external adviser will support NCD and the
project provinces in the first two years to assist with orientation and start-up activities, the
establishment of supervision and monitoring procedures and with problem solving in the early
stages. A national training manager, based in Port Moresby, will support the FP trainers in
NCD and the provinces. Technical assistance in Health Promotion, as described above, and in
updating of the management information system for MCH/FP will also be provided. A
facilitator for NGO initiatives will also cover the NCD and project provinces.



-45 -                             ANNEX 1
E. WEsrERN HiGHLANDS PROVINCE
Project Activities
Activities will comprise: (i) participation by key Health Division officials in annual
planning workshops, with plans to be submitted to the Provincial Government and PIU, as a
guide to project implementation; (ii) training of selected staff to become trainers in FP, with
refresher training also arranged; (iii) overseas clinical FP training for selected nursing staff;
(iv) a comprehensive provincial training program for up to 400 people including hospital and
community health staff, both government and mission, community leaders at district level, and
health workers in private or statutory organizations; (v) seminars for doctors and senior nurses
will be included. The Provincial Council of Women will organize training for their members
and the Community Women's Organizers, using Health Division and other personnel as resource
people; (vi) construction of a new FP/MCH clinic within the grounds of Mt. Hagen Hospital,
along with one staff house, and extensions to a number of rural health centers and sub-centers
and to Kudjip hospital; (vii) equipment for clinical contraception at centers and sub-centers, and
for surgical contraception at Mt. Hagen and Kudjip hospitals; (viii) a computer with word-
processing and data packages for the FP Supervisors office, to assist with correspondence,
preparation of reports, guidelines, training materials and the monitoring of project activities.
All project provinces will be involved in the review and modification of the
information system for management of the MCH/FP program. This will remain compatible with
the current health information system, but incorporate additional data for use by managers at
provincial level.
Program Management
The Provincial Health Adviser will be the project coordinator in the province,
reporting progress and plans to the Provincial Management Team through the Coordinator of
Social Services, and to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Department of Health on
a quarterly basis.
The FP Coordinator will be responsible for day to day implementation and
monitoring of the project in the Health Division, reporting to the Health Adviser through the
Community Health Matron.
Financial administration of project funds will be the responsibility of the Provincial
Division of Finance, with financial delegation to the Health Adviser, following procedures
currently used for ADB funds coming to the province.
Project Initiation
An orientation program for politicians, government officials and community leaders
will be organized, following which a working group will be convened to draft a provincial
population policy.
Visits to a neighboring country with an active FP program will be arranged for
selected Health personnel to observe the FP program.



- 46 -                            ANNEX 1
Promotion of Family Planning
The project recognizes the need for technical support in communication planning,
research and management for a core group of potential partners in FP promotion. The group
includes the provincial health educator, the media unit of the provincial government, the NBC
and various groups involved in media materials production and public health. The project will
provide the following: (i) training workshops on communication, planning research and
management, aimed at developing and implementing a behavior change strategy to increase use
of family planning; (ii) materials production, pretesting and distribution; (iii) supervision and
technical assistance from the NDOH Health Promotion Center during the planning and
implementation of a FP promotion program; (iv) policy guidelines on FP promotion goals and
the medical content of FP messages; and (v) provision of nationally produced communication
material (print, video and radio) for use in promotion activities and health worker training.
Translation and adaptation for local use will be possible provided that the medical content of the
messages conforms to national standards.
In addition funds will be available for the production, pretesting and adaptation of
media materials, as well as for the conduct of qualitative and quantitative research.
Non-government Organizations
A fund will be created at national level to support suitable proposals from non-
government agencies as they arise during the project. From this fund a contribution will be
made to the Provincial Council of Women for construction of a women's resource center in Mt.
Hagen and for conducting training programs for members.
Technical Assistance
National or external sources will be used to provide for specific aspects of project
implementation. An external adviser will support the project provinces in the first two years to
assist with orientation and start-up activities, the establishment of supervision and monitoring
procedures, and with problem solving in the early stages. A national training manager, based
in Port Moresby, will support the training of FP trainers and make follow-up visits to the
provinces.  Technical assistance in FP promotion, as described above, and in continued
development of the management information system for MCH/FP will also be provided. A
facilitator for the program to support NGO initiatives will also cover the project provinces.
F. SoUTEIN HIGHLANDS PROVINCE
Project Activities
Meetings of key officials in the Division of Health with their counterparts in other
project provinces will be arranged for orientation and preparation of yearly action plans, to be
submitted to the Provincial Government and PIU and to serve as a guide for project
implementation.
Training will be arranged for three selected nursing staff to become trainers of other
health staff in FP. This TOT will be carried out in the first year of the project and refresher
provided in alternate years thereafter.



- 47 -                           ANNEX 1
A comprehensive training program with elements suitable for service delivery,
supervision and management, and community education will be provided for up to 700 people
comprising health workers of government and church organizations, leaders of women's
organizations and women's organizers of the Social Affairs Division. It will include training for
male health workers to counsel men on family planning matters. Seminars for community
leaders at the district level will be organized by Health center officers on an annual basis, as will
two day seminars for doctors HEOs and senior nurses, led by visiting authorities from PNG and
overseas.
Supervision of FP services will be supported through of an additional vehicle for
MCH/FP supervision. Funds for air travel and for overnight stays will be included. Agreement
will be reached for the Provincial Women's Officer to accompany MCH staff from time to time,
to support the Community Women's Organizers in the districts in their FP activities.
Extension or renovation work will be carried out at the Mendi town clinic and in
selected major district health centers to ensure appropriate rooms are available for family
planning and related services. An extension to the in-service dormitory and classroom will be
constructed.
Equipment provided under the project will include kits for health centers and
hospitals offering clinical FP services; some office equipment including a photocopier will be
supplied.
All project provinces will be covered by an initiative to review and update the
collection and processing of information related to management of the MCH/FP program, to
remain compatible with the health information system but incorporating additional data for use
by managers at provincial level. Stationery and software for this will be provided for in the
project.
Program Management
The Project Coordinator in the province will be the Assistant Secretary Health,
reporting progress to the Provincial Management Team, chaired by the Provincial Secretary, and
to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) on a quarterly basis.
New positions for a Provincial Family Planning Coordinator in Mendi and for
MCH/FP supervisors in Tari and Ialibu will ensure effective use of project inputs. The FP
Coordinator will report to the Assistant Secretary Health through the Provincial Nursing Officer,
in close coordination with the Community Health Matron. An additional accounts clerk position
will support the administrative functions for the project.
Financial administration of project funds will be the responsibility of the Provincial
Division of Finance, with financial delegation to the Division of Health, following the procedures
currently used for ADB funds coming to the province.



- 48 -                             ANNEX 1
Project Initiation
Orientation programs will be organized for government officials from provincial and
district level, politicians, and community leaders. Following these a working group will be
convened to draft a provincial population policy.
Visits for selected provincial staff to a neighboring country with an active FP
program will also be arranged.
Promotion of Family Planning
The provincial health educator has access to some agencies with resources for health
promotion work. These include the NBC which airs a weekly Radio Doctor program; the media
unit of the provincial government which has both print and video equipment; and journalists with
the Times and Wantok. UNICEF has recently worked with a local puppet theater group for their
health project. The project proposes to provide the following: (i) training workshops on
communication planning, research and management, aimed at developing and implementing a
behavior change strategy to increase use of family planning; (ii) materials production, pretesting
and distribution; (iii) supervision and technical support from the NDOH Health Promotion
Center during planning and implementation of a FP promotion program; (iv) policy guidelines
on health promotion goals and objectives and the medical content of FP messages; and
(v) nationally produced communications materials in print, video and radio format for use in
promotion and in health worker training. Translation and adaptation for local use will be
possible, provided that the technical content remains consistent with national standards.
Funds will be provided for development, adaptation and pretesting of local
promotional materials (print, radio and video) as well as for quantitative and qualitative research.
Non-government Organizations
A fund will be created at national level to support suitable proposals from non-
government agencies as they arise during the project.
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance will be provided for specific aspects of project implementation.
One external adviser will support the project provinces in the first two years to help establish
new procedures in supervision and monitoring and in the orientation of personnel to the purpose
and scope of the project, and their duties and tasks, and to facilitate problem solving in the early
stages. A national training manager, based in Port Moresby, will support the training of trainers
and make follow-up visits to the provinces to help local personnel establish the training program.
Visits of specialists in obstetrics and gynecology to the province, covering FP as well as other
aspects of reproductive health will be supported. Technical assistance in health promotion, as
described above, and in continued development and use of management information for MCH/FP
will also be provided.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
NEW STAFF POSITIONS
This project has been prepared to assist the Government implement its population
program. This is a new program which has been designed to use the existing institutional base
and staff resources to the extent possible. In preparing the project to implement this new
Government program, the need for some new staff positions has been identified. These new
positions are mainly for the management and supervision of this program and the number of new
positions has been kept at a level consistent with what is estimated to be essential if there is
going to be an effective population program.
Only in one subject area is a new organizational structure proposed.  The
establishment of a Center for Health Promotion at the National Department of Health will
significantly strengthen the Department's ability to carry out one of its mandates - to provide the
public with information and promote better health practices which includes promotion of family
planning on health and other grounds. The establishment of this center will clearly signify
recognition of the need for a more active program in this area. The center will be established
under the First Assistant Secretary, Primary Health Care. The staff will comprise some existing
staff whose jobs include health education activities and some additional posts to create a viable
unit. The job descriptions for both transferred staff and new posts will require definition.
List of Proposed New Positions
National Department of Health
(a)   Project Implementation Unit. A post of Senior Project Coordinator.
(b)  Training. A post of national coordinator of MCH/FP training.
(c)   Center for Health/FP Promotion. The project proposes the creation of four new
technical positions and one administrative position, namely (i) Communication
Research Officer (CC 10); (ii) Multimedia materials production officer (CC 10);
(iii) FP/MCH Communications Officer (CC 8); (iv) Information retrieval/
dissemination Officer (CC 8); and (v) Computer keyboard operator (CC 3).
(d)  Pharmaceutical Services. The posts of one pharmacist and one procurement officer
(CC 10).
Department of Finance and Planning - Social Planning Division
To assist project management, two additional posts will be created: (i) project
accountant (CC 9): and (ii) keyboard operator.



- 50 -                             ANNEX 2
East New Britain - Division of Health
To supervise and manage the program three additional posts are needed:
(i) provincial family planning co-ordinator; (ii) family planning counsellor; and (iii) data entry
clerk.
Eastern Highlands - Division of Health
To supervise and manage the program two posts have been identified: (i) family
planning co-ordinator; and (ii) accounts clerk.
Morobe - Division of Health
To supervise and manage the program two posts have been identified: (i) family
planning co-ordinator; and (ii) logistics officer.
National Capital District - Division of Health
Two family planning supervisor positions (nursing officer 4, CC 6) will be
required, the first in 1994 and the second in 1996.
Southern Highlands - Division of Health
Two additional posts have been identified for 1993; (i) family planning co-ordinator;
and (ii) logistics clerk. Two additional posts for MCH/FP supervisors have been identified, one
for Tari in 1995 and one for lalibu in 1997.
Western Highlands - Division of Health
A position for a family planning supervisor has been tentatively identified, but this
proposal requires further discussion.
A total of 22 posts are indicated in the initial stages of the project for effective
management of the program, with 3 additional posts during the life of the project (5 years) to
continue strengthening program management as it expands. There is also an additional post for
the UPNG Population Program and two for the Institute of Medical Research.



- 51 -
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECr
TRAINING PROGRAM
A. Training of Trainers (TOT) Program
Training of FP Trainers courses consisting of 2 phases to total 7 weekswil take place in Pt Moresby, I week refri
courses will follow alternative years thereafter.
Number of Participants                         TOTAL
Subcomponent                 1993     1994     1995      1996     1997       Partiipants No. of weed
East New Britain Province
TOT courses                            3          -        1         -        -              4         28
Refresher courses                       -         -       3         -        1               4          4
Eastern Highlands Province /a
TOT courses                            2          -        -         -        -              2         14
Refresher courses                       -        2        2        2         2               8          8
Morobe Province /b
TOT courses                             1         -        -         -        -               1         7
Refresher courses                       -        3        1         3        1               8          8
National Capital District /b
TOT courses                                       -        -                  -              0          0
Refresher courses                       -        3         -        3         -              6          6
Southern Highlands Province
TOT courses                            3          -        -         -        -              3         21
Refresher courses                       -         -       3         -        3               6          6
Western Highlands Province /c
TlOT courses                           3          -        -         -        -              3         21
Refresher courses                       -        1        3         1        3               8          8
Other provinces /d
TOT courses                             -         -      10          -        -              10        70
Refresher courses                       -                  -        -       10              10         10
TOTAL: TOT courses                  12         0       11        0         0              23        161
Refresher courses               0        9        12        9       20               50        50
/a Two persons have been trained as trainens under the SEATS progrm. Two additional peona will be provided with a TOT program
All four trainers will bc provided with refresher coures alternative years thereafter.
/b Three persons trained as trainers under the SEATS program will be provided with refresher courses In Years 2 and 4.
/c One has been trained to bc a trainer under the SEATS program. Three additional persons will be prvided with a TOT program in Y
with refresher courses alternative years thereafter.
/d To be determined.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
B. Domestic Short-term Training Program
No. of
persons to         Number of Participants                      T O TA L
Component/Type of Training        be trained    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Participts No. of s/mo..
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICE
DELIVERY
East New Britain Province:
one-wk courses for OlCs/SICs                             -    30      30      30      30      30       150        35
one-wk courses for nurses & CHWs                         -   200    200    200    200         60       860       198
one-wk courses for hospital and                                                                          0
nursing school staff                                    -    80      80      80      80        -      320        74
- one-day courses for section heads                     30        -    30        -    30         -       90         4
- one-day sessions for medical                                                                            0
doctors & senior nurses                                 -       -    35      35      35        -      105         5
Subtotal                                 450       30    310    375    345    375         90      1,525       316
Eastern Highlands Province
-one-wk courses for OlCs/SICs                           24      24      24     24      24      24       144        33
- one-wk courses for nurses & CHWs                      80    240    240    240    240         80      1,120      258
one-wk courses for hospital and
nursing school staff                                    -    20      20      20      20        -       80        18
- two-day trng for p.health staff                       20      20      20     20      20      20       120        11
- one-day sessions for medical
doctors & senior nurses                                 -       -    55      55      55        -      165         8
- one-day sessions for community
leaders                                                 -           280    280    280    120          960        44
- one-day session for church leaders                      -    60      60      60      60        -      240        11
Subtotal                                 600      124    364    699    699    699    244          2,829       384
Morobe Provincc
- one-wk courses for HEOs/SICs                          20      40     40      40      40      20       200        46
- one-wk courses for d.health staff                     80    360    360    360    360         80     1,600       369
- two-day trng for section heads                        20        -    20        -    20         -       60         6
- one-day sessions for medical
dloctors & senior nurses                                -       -    55      55      55        -      165         8
- one-day sessions for community
leaders                                                 -       -   240    240    240    120          840        39
Subtotal                                 500      120    400    715    695    715    220         2,865       467
National Capital District:
- one-wk courses for clinic staff                       60    140    140    140    140         80       700       162
- one-wk courses for staff of clinics
rmn by govt statutory bodies & private                  -    60      60      60      60      20       260        60
- or:e-wk courses for comm.volunteers                   40      40       -       -       -       -       80        18
- two-day trng for supervisors and
admin staff                                             -    40        -    40         -    40        120        11
- one-day sessions for medical
doctors & senior nurses                                 -       -    55      55      55        -      165         8
- one-day sessions for community
leaders                                                 -      -   180    180    180        80        620        29
Subtotal                                 400      100    280    435    475    435    220          1945       287



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
Domestic Short-term Training Program (continued)
No. of
penons to         Number of Participants                       T O TA L
Component/Type of Training        be trained    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Participts No. of u/mos.
Southern Highlands Province:
- one-wk courses for HEOs & SICs                         -    40       40     40      40      20       180        42
- one-wk courses for APOs,CHWs                           -   200    200    200    200    100           900       208
- one-wk courses for women organizers                    -    16       16      16     16      16        80        18
- two-day FP trng for prov.hstaff                      20      20      20     20      20      20       120        11
- one-day sessions for medical
doctors & senior nurses                                -       -    35      35      35        -      105         5
- one-day sessions for community leaders                 -       -   280    280    280    140          980        45
- orientation courses for leaden                       20      20      20     20      20        -      100         5
Subtotal                                 700       40    296    611    611    611    296         2465       333
Western Highlands Province:
- one-wk courses for HEOs & SICs                         -    30       30     30      30      30       150        35
- one-wk courses for CHWs, nurses                        -   300    300    300    300    160         1,360       314
- one-wk courses for hospital staff
(public and private)                                   -    80       80     80      80      20       340        78
- two-day trng for section heads                       20        -    20        -    20         -       60         6
- one-day sessions for distr.managers                  20      20      20     20      20        -      100         5
- one-day sessions for medical
doctors & senior nurses                                -       -    36      36      36        -      108         5
- one-day sessions for community leaden                  -       -   280    280    280        60       900        42
Subtotal                                 400       40    430    766    746    766    270         3018       484
National level training: /a
2-day workshop for CHWs                               16        -      -       -       -      -        16         1
- one-wk w/s for teachers                               14       -       -      -       -       -       14         3
-one-wk courses for CHW trainen                          -    16       16     16      16        -       64        15
-one-wk courses for FP trainem                           9     18      18     18      18       9        90        21
Subtotal                                  64       39     34      34     34      34       9       184        40
Total - FP Service Delivery          _ 3.114       493  2.114  3.635  3,605  3.635   1,349    14,831        2,312
PROGRAM SUPPORT/b
Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical Logistic
System:
- one-mo.in-service for dispensers             36       12     12      12       -       -       -       36        36
Dcmographic Data Collection and
Utilization:
- three-wk workshop in survey methodology      60        -    20       40       -       -       -       60        42
- two-wk management training for
provincial officers (for the
Demographic Health Survey)                  19         -       -    19        -       -      -        19         9
Total - Program Support                    115       12      32     71       0       0      0       115        86
TOTAL                                     3,229     505  2,146  3,706  3,605  3,635   1,349    14,946        2,398
/a Included also re: (i) workshops for national supervisors and PP coordinators on provincial mmengement development; and (il) short certificate courses for
medical doctors.
lb Included also In the proposed project re: (i) two teaching fellowsip (one-year) for Department of Community Medicine, UPNG; (ii) one two-year diploma In
cartography; and (iii) provisions of training for diploma In cartography; and (iiI) provisions of training for staff of PPU and PIV.
(limos denotes staff-months.)



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
C. Overseas Training
Number of Participants                        T O T A L
Type of Training/Component           1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998        Participants No. of mo
Sbort Clinical A Maatcemcet Traimiag:
(3-weeks)
East New Britain Province                         -      3       3      3       3      3           15        10
Eastern Highlands Province                        -      4       2      4       2       -          12         8
Morobe Province                                   -      4       2      4       2      1           13         9
National Capital District                         -      4       -      3        -      -           7         5
Southern Highlands Province                       -      4       -      4        -      -           8         6
Western Highlands Province                        -      4       -      4        -      -           8         6
Clinical Training for Doctors                     -      2       2      2       2      2           10         7
Subtotal                                       0     25       9      24      9       6           73        51
Demograpbic data sampling and census              -      1       1       -       -      -           2         8
evaluation: (4-ionths)
Overseas visits In FP Management: (I-mo)
Project Management - PPU                          -      2       2      2       2       2          10        10
Project Management- PIU                           -      2       2      2       2       2          10        10
Subtotal                                       0       4      4       4      4       4           20        20
Detree/DiRlomm Programs:
Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical Logistic System:
- 1-yr in drug management                         -      1      1       1       1       -           4        48
-1-yr in pharmacy                                 -      -      I        -      -       -           1        12
-1-yr in supply & procurement mngt                -      I       -       -      -       -           1        12
- 1-yr in pharmaceutical management               -      -      I        -      -       -           1        12
and qualitycontrol
Population/FP Research:
- MA program (2-yrs) (DCM-UPNG)                   -      -      I       I                           2        48
- MA program (2-yrs) (PP-UPNG)                    -      -      1       1                           2        48
Demographic Data Collection & Utilization:
- Diploma in administration (1-yr)                -      I                                          1        12
- MA in demogranalysis (2-yrs)                    -      I      I                                   2        48
- Sampling method (1-yr)                          -      I       -       -      -       -           1        12
- Mngt of Information system (1-yr)               -      -      I        -      -       -           1        12
Subtotal                                       0       5      7       3       1      0           16       264
TOTAL                                         0      35      21     31      14      10         111       343



- 55 -                            ANNEX 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
TECENiCAL ASSISTANCE
The following provides the terms of reference for the long term advisers required
for project implementation. In addition, a number of short term consultants will be required for
specific technical tasks. The terms of reference for the short term consultants are also provided
where the tasks have been adequately identified. Provision has also been made in the budget to
recruit additional consultants to meet unforeseen requirements.
A. LONG TERM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (ONE YEAR OR MORE) -
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I1.   Senior Project Adviser - Terms of Reference
Location: Social Planning Division, Department of Finance and Planning (DFP).
Term: Intermittent, with visits of about one month duration three times a year for a total
of no more than three months each calendar year over the life of the project.
Counterpart: First Assistant Secretary, Social Planning Division, DFP.
Terms of Reference: The advisor will render assistance to the project by:
(i)  counselling and advising about the further development and implementation of
population policy;
(ii)  providing technical guidance to senior management including the National
Population Council about population issues;
(iii) assisting with resolution of management issues and problems which may arise;
(iv)  assisting with resolution of issues related to procurement of goods and services;
(v)  providing senior project staff with the opportunity to interact with an experienced
person and facilitating the on-the-job learning process of those staff;
(vi) assisting and brokering issues which relate to agency-Government interfacing; and
(vii)  assisting with identification of appropriate consulting services, if required;
(viii)  assist with determination of the appropriateness of additional consulting services
which may be required under the project; and



- 56 -                              ANNEX 4
(ix) provide guidance, if required, about the evaluation of project studies and research
proposals and results.
Qualifications: The person would be an external consultant. The adviser should be a
senior person with broad experience with implementation of population programs in developing
countries and academic qualifications in the field of population and/or public health. Preferably,
the adviser should possess a knowledge of Papua New Guinea and a good working knowledge
of the agencies involved in this project. Superior inter-personal and political skills would be
highly desirable.
2.    Project Administrator - Management
Location: Social Planning Division, Department of Finance and Planning (DFP).
Term: Five years, with an initial period of three years with the option of extending for
a fuirther two years subject to satisfactory performance od duties and approval of the Project
Steering Committee (PSC). Starting date - May 1, 1992.
Counterpart: Assistant Secretary, Health and Population, Social Planning Division,
DFP.
Terms of Reference: The advisor will assist the following activities:
(i)  prepare and maintain detailed plans and schedules of project activities;
(ii) establish a detailed, time-phased financial plan, ensuring that each project
component is included in the annual budget estimates submitted by the agencies
involved;
(iii) supervise the project staff in DFP (accounts clerk and KBO);
(iv) monitor and coordinate project activities in all participating agencies where
appropriate;
(v)  coordinate with the aid donors and the project adviser;
(vi)  prepare quarterly reports for the Government and semi-annual reports for the
donors concerning project performance, and assist with the mid-term evaluation of
the project;
(vii) liaise with OIDA, Public Accounts and Auditor General staff about maintaining
acceptable project accounts, procedures for disbursing loan funds, audits and
financial reporting;
(viii) be responsible for administration of project records, files and correspondence,
reports, contracts and updating the project procedures manual;
(ix) assist with preparation of consultant short lists, preparation and issuance of
invitation documents for consultant proposals and contract negotiations where appropriate;



-57-                               ANNEX 4
(x)  coordinate the work of the project consultants where appropriate;
(xi)  assist the agencies with preparation of contracts for goods and services, tender
documents, tender invitations, evaluation of bids and negotiating contracts; and
(xii) assist and advise the Population Program Unit (PPU), as and when requested, with
the following:
- National Population Council
- public relations
- departmental and ministerial briefs
- monitoring and further development of Population Policy
Project Steering Committee, including agenda setting and monitoring PSC's
decisions.
Qualifications: The post would be an external consultant (AIDAB supported). The main
qualification would be demonstrated broad experience in administration and management and a
master's level of academic achievement, preferably in the area of public administration.
Experience within Papua New Guinea would be an advantage. The candidate would also have
proven communication skills, both oral and written, an ability to maintain good inter-personal
relations and an aptitude for negotiation are also sought. While a background in population and
health would be preferable, this is not essential.
3.   Project Adviser - Technical
Location: National Department of Health
Term: Five years, with an initial contract period of three years with an option to extend
for a further two years provided that performance is satisfactory and with the approval of the
PSC. Starting date - May 1, 1993.
Counterpart: First Assistant Secretary, MCH/FP
Terms of Reference: The adviser will assist with the following activities:
(i)  maintenance of effective implementation and co-ordination of project activities
under the direction of the National Department of Health and provincial Divisions
of Health;
(ii)  making available current technical knowledge relating to all aspects of family
planning;
(iii) introduction and trials of community based distribution of contraceptives;
(iv)  organization of overseas training activities for family planning staff;



- 58 -                             ANNEX 4
(v)  as necessary, assist with the organization and conduct of training programs under
the project;
(vi)  in close collaboration with the management advisor based at Social Planning, DFP,
assist preparations for meetings of the PSC and with any required follow-up actions
(the technical advisor should be an ex-officio member of the PSC); and
(vii)  preparation of reports relating to the project and assist with the mid-term review.
Qualifications: The post would be an external consultant (AIDAB supported). The
consultant should have professional qualifications, at least at master's level, in the field of
maternal and child health and family planning, preferably with the emphasis on the latter. The
consultant should have extensive experience in managing and administering major programs in
this field. The consultant should have good communication and negotiating skills and also
demonstrated ability to maintain good inter-personal relations. A good knowledge of Papua New
Guinea is preferred.
4. Provincial Program Adviser
Location: National Department of Health (based at Goroka)
Term: The appointment would be for a period of two years. Starting date - September 1,
1993.
Counterpart: First Assistant Secretary MCH/FP, NDOH
Terms of Reference: The consultant will provide assistance to the five provinces in the
following general areas:
(i) preparation of project work plans;
(ii) introduction of record systems for family planning;
(iii) organization of training activities in conjunction with training staff;
(iv) liaison with NGO activities and act as additional resource person for NGO
programs;
(v) organization of meetings for senior provincial leaders;
(vi) provincial information source for the program and public relations activities;
(vii) monitoring and evaluation activities; and
(viii) provision of responses to other project related issues which may be identified by
the provincial authorities.
Qualifications: The post would be an external consultant (AIDAB supported). The
person should have professional qualifications in the health/population field (i.e.senior nurse or



- 59 -                             ANNEX 4
MPH qualifications) and broad experience in project related work in developing countries. Past
experience in Papua New Guinea would be an advantage. The candidate should possess good
communication and inter-personal skills. The person will be expected to undertake extensive
traveling, sometimes under difficult circumstances.
5. Training Consultants
The project will provide a package of training assistance incorporating the use of
long term and short term expertise from outside and from within PNG. It is intended that this
package be organized, coordinated and monitored by a single institution or organization under
contract to the Government of PNG in conformity with guidelines and conditions acceptable to
the funding agency.
This technical support for training will be provided in three distinct but interlinked
functional areas: the in-service training of health workers, the pre-service training of health
workers, and the training of medical students and doctors. One long term external adviser will
be provided in each of the first two areas. For medical training it is expected that a national
member of the UPNG teaching staff will be seconded to do the work, and that his position will
be taken by an overseas contract officer, funded by the project. To assist with the workload two
national long term consultants will be recruited.
Senior Training Adviser MCH/FP
Location: Family Health Services, NDOH (Port Moresby)
Term: Five years, commencing June 1993.
Counterpart: Coordinator, MCH/FP Training, NDOH
Terms of Reference: Assist with technical support, coordination and monitoring of all
the health training interventions of the project. Duties:
(i) Support NDOH and project staff in planning, conduct and follow up of the training
program for provincial FP trainers (TOT), ensuring documentation to produce
course guidelines.
(ii) Facilitate training interventions, workshops etc at national level for the FP
coordinators and other key Health Division staff in the project provinces.
(iii) Support and monitor the in-service training programs in the project provinces, and
participate in annual reviews of these.
(iv) Maintain liaison with Training Division, the Chief Nursing Officer and Primary and
Secondary Health Services in NDOH, and with UPNG, CAHS and other health
training institutions.
(v) Ensure procurement and distribution of training materials and equipment to the
project provinces. Liaise with the Health Curriculum and Media Unit and the
Health Promotion Center in the local production of training materials.



- 60 -                              ANNEX 4
(vi) Supervise the work of project training and training support staff and the
administration of the project's training section. Provide PIU with progress reports.
Qualifications: Graduate in medicine, nursing, social science or education; post-basic
qualification in public health,education, or manpower development; experience in health training
and in administration of training programs in developing countries.
Training Specialists (two)
Location: Family Health Services, NDOH (Port Moresby)
Term: Four years, commencing April 1994
Counterpart: Coordinator, MCH/FP Training, NDOH
Terms of Reference: Assist the Senior Training Adviser with the overall training
program. Duties: to assist with
(i) organization and conduct of MCH/FP training activities conducted under the
project, including course planning and design, preparation of course materials,
selection of participants and reporting on training performance;
(ii) design of curriculum materials;
(iii) monitoring and evaluating provincial training activities;
(iv) further development of Family Planning Guidelines and other written materials; and
(v) act as a resource person for other service providers on matters related to family
planning training.
Qualifications: The two training specialists should be senior national nurses, preferably
with a master's degree in nursing and with extensive experience in the organization and conduct
of training activities and development of training materials.  They should have superior
communication skills.
Director, Family Planning
Location: Department of Clinical Science, Faculty of Medicine UPNG (Port Moresby)
Counterpart: Professor and Head of Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Term:  Long term, with funding from  the project for two years, commencing in
September 1993.
Terms of Reference:
(i) Develop all aspects of the university's program of clinical training in family
planning.



-61-                               ANNEX 4
(ii) Supervise establishment of a model family planning clinic at Port Moresby General
Hospital.
(iii) Assist NDOH to develop and implement a plan to improve family planning in
secondary health services, beginning in the project provinces.
(iv) Provide authoritative comment and guidance on family planning issues to health
policy makers, public officials and the general community, using appropriate
channels, including mass media.
(v) Provide advice to the Project Steering Committee, Population Policy Unit and
NDOH on medical and clinical aspects of population/FP policy and strategy.
(vi) Assist in providing guidelines for correct medical content of communication
materials on family planning for the general public.
(vii) Coordinate the University's program of research into the clinical aspects of family
planning.
Qualifications: Medical degree with specialist qualification in Obstetrics and Gynecology;
additional training in family planning; experience, interest and skill in teaching clinical aspects
of family planning to health workers; competence in public speaking and in presenting family
planning information to the public through newspapers, radio and television; skill in writing and
editing reports, guidelines and teaching materials.
The project will provide short term external consultancies in a number of
specialized areas of expertise, including training design, materials development and distance
education.
6. Health Promotion Consultants
To implement the health promotions component of the Family Planning and
Population project in PNG, a full-service organization will need to be contracted with expertise
in health promotion and an ability to provide both a long-term (3-5 years) communication
advisor, as well as short-term consultants. This agency should have the capacity to undertake
all phases of communication work. The consulting agency will station a Resident Advisor in
Port Moresby for a five year period. Short-term consultancy assignments will involve travel
around the country particularly the five pilot provinces and the National Capital District.
Location: National Department of Health
Term: The consultancy agreement will be for five years. Starting ate April 1, 1993.
Counterpart: Assistant Secretary, Health Promotion Center at NDOH. At the provincial
level the counterparts will be the Provincial health educators.
Terms of Reference: The consulting agency will provide technical assistance in all phases
of health promotions work namely:



- 62 -                            ANNEX 4
(i) communication planning and strategy development;
(ii) message design and materials development/pretesting;
(iii) communication research both formative and summative;
(iv) research and development activities aimed at developing innovative training
materials and teaching methods to respond to PNG-specific problems hindering
effective health promotions, such as high levels of illiteracy among the target
population, the use of several hundred languages, poor reading skills.
The agency must be able to subcontract local agencies in PNG for specific
communication outputs. It must be able to institute a viable technology transfer and mentoring
system over the period of the project.
The Resident Advisor will provide both formal and informal , on-the-job training
to the members of the counterpart units, both NDOH and the five pilot provinces and the
National Capital District in all phases of health promotion work, particularly communication
planning and behavior change strategy development; message design and materials
development/pretesting; and, communication research.
Qualifications of Resident Advisor: Educational background in the social sciences, with
5 - 10 year's experience in the use of communications for development. A graduate degree is
an asset. Work experience in public health desirable.
7. Consultant for NGO Activities
Location:  Department of Religion, Home and Youth Affairs (DRHAY) - Non-
Government Organization and Womens' Divisions.
Term: The appointment would be for a period of two years. Starting date - September 1,
1993.
Counterparts:  Assistant Secretaries, Non-Government Organization and Womens'
Divisions, DRHAY.
Terms of Reference: The consultant will undertake the following activities:
(i) assist the development of procedures for NGO submissions and help NGO's
prepare submissions to the PSC for funding approval. Provide the PSC with an
assessment of the proposals;
(ii) identification of NGO projects eligible for assistance;
(iii) act as a resource person for the NGO's providing technical guidance to the NGO's
during implementation of their programs;
(iv) assist the NGO's in meeting required accountability standards;



-63 -                            ANNEX 4
(v) prepare a report of activities on a six-monthly basis for submission to the PSC; and
(vi) assist the Non-Government Organization Division and DWA in developing
satisfactory procedures for implementing and monitoring the program of support
for NGO's.
Qualifications: The position would be open to either a PNG national or external
consultant. The candidate should have had broad experience in working in the population field
with non-government organizations. The candidate should have a masters level qualification in
the population or social studies disciplines but other educational achievements would be
considered in conjunction with an appropriate work experience. The candidate should have
superior communication skills, especially oral and preference would be given to a candidate with
competency in pidgin English. Alternately, the candidate would be expected to make every
effort to develop such a language competency.
8. Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical Supply Systens Specialist
Location: Department of Pharmaceutical Services/NDOH
Term: 18 months, starting about September 1, 1993.
Counterpart: Chief of Pharmaceutical Services
Terms of Reference: The consultant will assist the pharmaceutical section to:
(i) standardize procurement procedures for international procurement, prepare standard
bidding documents, technical specifications, evaluation criteria and delivery
scheduling;
(ii) devise norms for various procurement options such as local competitive bidding,
direct shopping, limited international bidding and international competitive bidding;
(iii) establish procurement schedules to obtain best prices through economies of scale;
(iv) review the current procedures for demand forecasting and develop a quantification
procedure based on national morbidity data and consumption patterns;
(v) based on realistic demand estimates obtained through morbidity data and
contraceptive prevalence rates, evaluate the adequacy of current budgetary
allocation for drugs and contraceptives and suggest revised budgetary inputs to
ensure uninterrupted supply of contraceptives and drugs;
(vi) help develop norms for minimum stock levels at various distribution points,
automatic re-ordering procedures and the buffer stocks required to overcome any
interruptions in supply;
(vii) estimate the lead time involved in international procurement to design a rolling
procurement cycle;



- 64 -                            ANNEX 4
(viii) develop a two-way information flow system to monitor stock holding, movement
and shelf-life of drugs and contraceptives and devise a system for tracking and
inter-facility transfers of excess and limited shelf-life stocks to avoid losses;
(ix) design pre-shipment inspection supplies including random testing of drugs before
shipment and develop testing protocols for drugs on order and drugs in the system;
(x) develop criteria for maintaining track records of suppliers to eliminate unreliable
suppliers;
(xi) suggest options for better coordination of donor inputs for drugs and contraceptive
supplies to avoid double ordering;
(xii) train store staff to monitor shelf-life, special storage requirements for certain drugs
and physical inspection of drugs for signs of deterioration and degradation;
(xiii) strengthen the current inventory control system, design a procedure for periodic
physical inventorization of stocks and procedures for disposal of expired and
obsolete stocks;
(xiv) design a supervision system for periodic monitoring of stocks at various health
delivery levels and training of staff in drug management.
Qualifications: The consultant should be a pharmacist with at least ten years experience
in procurement management, tender processing, finance, warehousing and storage of drugs,
inventory control and distribution and monitoring or medical supplies and contraceptives. They
should also be familiar with development and operation of computer-based inventory
management, demand forecasting and bid comparison programs to monitor stocks and process
procurement.
B. SHORT TERM CONSULTANTS (LESS TEAN ONE YEAR) - TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Consultant - Population Data
Location: National Statistical Office (NSO)
Term: Three weeks, approximately June 1994
Counterpart: Assistant Statistician
Terms of Reference: The consultant will perform the following activities:
(i) liaise with NSO, East New Britain Provincial Statistical Office and the Civil
Registration group in the Department of Home Affairs and Youth, to select
variables to be included in the pilot Provincial Data System/Civil Registration
(PDS/CR);



- 65 -                            ANNEX 4
(ii) liaise with NSO, East New Britain Provincial Statistical Officer, Civil Registration
group and other potential users to determine report formats to be used in the pilot
PDS/CR;
(iii) review existing computerized Papua New Guinea databases, including PNGRIS and
National Mapping Bureau data and determine the extent of pilot PDS/CR
compatibility with other databases;
(iv) prepare specifications for the pilot PDS/CR database and the preparation of
customized software to extract data.
Qualifications: The consultant should have an extensive knowledge of demographic data
in Papua New Guinea, and of the type of data required to monitor population change and to plan
for economic and social development at the national and provincial level. The consultant must
also be experienced in the use of computerized database systems and in the analysis and
presentation of population data.
2. Consultant - Civil Registration
Location: Department of Religion, Home Affairs and Youth
Term: Five weeks, approximately June-July 1994
Counterpart: Deputy Registrar General
Terms of Reference: The consultant will perform the following activities:
(i) review, evaluate and report on progress with Civil Registration in PNG to date;
(ii)  evaluate the existing legislation relating to registration of births and deaths and
advise on any changes, new acts, bills or other legal steps necessary to enable the
system to become mandatory and enforceable;
(iii) review mechanisms for implementing registration of births and deaths and evaluate
existing documentation for birth registrations and recommend any necessary
revisions;
(iv)  advise on staffing, computer hardware and software requirements to carry out
registration and advise on appropriate data storage systems for retaining records at
the National Archives in Port Moresby;
(v) determine any legal steps are necessary to enable the PDS to be used to identify
cases for registration;
(vi) liaise with the NSO and East New Britain Provincial Government to determine a
mechanism for using the pilot PDS to identify cases for registration;



- 66 -                            ANNEX 4
(vii) prepare a timetable for the phasing in of universal registration, including dates at
which registration will become mandatory, at first with a period of grace for
defaulters and later with enforcement;
(viii) advise on an appropriate fee structure for the issue of certificates.
Qualirications:  The consultant will possess a law degree and have an extensive
knowledge of the legal requirements for Civil Registration. They should also be experienced
in designing mechanisms for implementing bureaucratic procedures.
3. Consultant - Computer Specialist for Pharmaceutical Supply Services
Location: Pharmaceutical Supply Services, NDOH (Port Moresby)
Term: Six months (possibly two three month periods), approximately at the end of 1993.
Counterpart: Chief of Pharmaceutical Services
Terms of Reference: The consultant will undertake the following activities:
(i) evaluate PSS and AMS staff computer competency;
(ii) design and conduct a training program for PSS and AMS staff;
(iii) assist with development of an information flow system and other systems consistent
with ensuring the availability of contraceptives at all health facilities; and
(iv) advise on the further purchases of software and hardware for PSS and AMS.
Qualifications: The consultant will have had extensive experience with computer software
and hardware as applied to the supply and distribution of pharmaceuticals and wIll also have had
experience with the organization and conduct of computer training at all levels of competency.
4. Consultant - MIS Specialist
Location: Family Health Services, NDOH (Port Moresby)
Term: 8 weeks in the first year and 4 weeks in the second year.
Counterpart: Coordinator, MCH/FP Training, NDOH
Terms of Reference: The consultant will undertake to:
(i) design, test, revise and introduce written and computer software package for MIS
for family planning, supplementing and compatible with the existing health
information system;



-67 -                             ANNEX4
(ii) assist provincial and national authorities to refine appropriate management, service
and performance indicators for the family planning program, based on review of
currently used indicators and new program plans;
(iii) assist with revision of recording and reporting forms to incorporate the agreed
indicators, for testing in the project provinces;
(iv) assist with the training of provincial family planning coordinators and health
information officers, and regional and national level supervisors in the operation
and use of the MIS;
(v) prepare written guidelines about the use of the system  to be incorporated
eventually into a management manual for provincial family planning coordinators;
(vi) orient the responsible officer in NDOH to the process of MIS development and
handover the work at the conclusion of the first consultancy period; and
(vii) follow-up in the following year to assess performance of the system, and reinforce
skills of users at each level of the system.
Qualifications: Experience in design and training of the use of HIS/MIS software
applications in developing countries.
5. Consultant - Distance Learning Specialist
Location: Family Health Services, NDOH (Port Moresby)
Term: Three months during each year commencing in the second year.
Counterpart: Coordinator, MCHIFP Training, NDOH
Terms of Reference: The consultant will design and assist with the implementation of
a distance learning program for community health and other staff in FP/MCH which will entail
the following activities:
(i) conduct of a review of past experience and current initiatives in distance learning
in PNG, and a feasibility study for a new program in distance learning in
FP/MCH, considering technological and training innovations likely to be effective
in the setting of PNG;
(ii) presentation and discussion of the findings and the study with officers of NDOH,
health training institutions and other involved organizations;
(iii) preparation of a detailed plan for a distance learning program for the project
provinces, to be commenced in year 3 of the project; and
(iv)  assisting staff with the implementation of the plan, regular review, monitoring and
evaluation.



- 68 -                             ANNEX 4
Qualifications: The consultant will have qualifications and experience in distance learning
programs and approaches, preferably with experience of applying these in the health field in
developing countries.
6. Consultant - Senior Level Curriculum Specialist
Location: Department of Community Medicine, University of Papua New Guinea
Term: Six months (possibly in two periods)
Counterpart: Head, Department of Community Medicine
Terms of Reference: The consultant will revise the curricula for undergraduates and
diploma students in the Department of Community Medicine, to ensure that appropriate attention
is given to social, policy, planning, communication (EC) and service delivery aspects of
population issues, family planning and women's health. The specific activities include:
(i) Familiarization with the background and present status of Papua New Guinea's
population policy and national plans and priorities for reproductive health and
family planning;
(ii) Reviewing the relevant portions of the existing curriculum and exploring the
experience of both teachers and students with this curriculum;
(iii) the  desired   attitudes  and   competencies  of  medical  practitioners
and other graduates to contribute to leadership and support in the further
development and implementation of programs in population, reproductive health
and family planning;
(iv) Developing learning objectives for the curriculum to achieve these competencies;
(v)  Preparation of outlines of course units with schedules of learning experiences,
supplementary activities, teaching specifications and requirements for instructional
material to achieve the agreed learning objectives;
(vi)  Identifying likely sources of instructional materials as well as supervision of local
production of materials where necessary;
(vii)  Identifying  appropriate  assessment methods  and  tools  for  the  course
units;
(viii) Documentation of all aspects of the revised curriculum to meet the requirements for
submission to the official UPNG approving body; and
(ix) Participation in the orientation of staff to the new curriculum, when it has been
approved for introduction.
The consultant will work in a counterpart or mentor relationship with a designated
faculty member, under the direction of the Head of the Department of Community Medicine,



- 69 -                              ANNEX 4
reporting to a steering committee made up of some faculty members with other local expertise
if available. The work will as far a possible be a participative process, involving consultation
with government and university officials, teaching staff and medical practitioners in various types
of service, a series of workshops with faculty members, and circulation of drafts and examples
as the work develops.
Qualifications: Graduate in Medicine or Social Science, with higher qualification in
public or community health and teaching. Extensive experience of designing and teaching
courses in the social, policy and health service aspects of population, reproductive health and
family planning to undergraduate and postgraduate university students in similar country
situations. Willingness to work in a consultative and collegial manner with senior officials and
university staff.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
HEALTH PROMOTION CENTER
Asat. Sec
Health Promotion
Population                                                  Admin
Clearing House                                               Support
ReerI:                                                                          m ulti Media
Prod E Pr
| FP/MCH                                                                                              STDAID
Comm. Spec                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Comm. Spec



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF POPULATION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
| NEC 
National                       ~~~~~Project Director
Population                                   Secretary DFP
Council                                               I
Project Manager
FAS Social Planning
PSC Chairman                                                      -
| Project Steering |
|NGO and Women's                   Pouato                                       Project Implementation|
Divisions (DRHAY)                  Planning                                            Unit (NDOH)
Unit (DFP)l
<~~~~Ntoa                        Reeac              Depts.    | |Center              Phra             MC/F
NGOs          Statistic.       Institutions         of the         for Health       ceutical           Unit       
Office                             Province       Prmt (NDOH)        Services          (NDOH)



- 72 -                            ANNEX 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The management components and their relationships are given in detail below.
A. NATIONAL POPULATION COUNCIL (NPC)
The NPC will have the responsibility for overseeing and coordinating the
implementation of the Government's population policy and program.
Membership of the NPC is:
(i) Deputy Prime Minister as Chairperson
(ii) Five departmental secretaries (DFP, NDOH, DRHAY, National Department of
Education (NDOE), and the Department of the Prime Minister (DPMin)
(iii) Four regional representatives chosen by the provincial premiers
(iv) Three non-government representatives (PNG Council of Churches, PNG Family
Planning Association, and a community leader)
The composition of the NPC aims to combine political authority at the highest level
(the Deputy Prime Minister) with leading public servants, regional representatives and relevant
NGOs. Drawing these persons together will help to fulfil NEC objectives of making the NPC
a policy advisory, implementation and monitoring body of the highest authority and
representative of a wide range of interests and expertise. The NPC should meet at least twice
each year and publish an annual report for wide circulation.
At least during its formative stages it appears advantageous to establish the NPC
under the authority of the NEC rather than through legislation. This would enable changes to
be made more readily in its constitution and in the range of its responsibilities as the NPC
evolves .
The main functions of the NPC are:
(i) Determine how population policy is to be effected;
(ii) Control the receipt and disbursement of funds from both internal and external
sources needed to achieve population policy goals and objectives;
(iii) Approve annually the development programs relating to population activities of
departments and organizations required to implement the National Population
Policy;



- 73 -                            ANNEX 7
(iv) Coordinate the activities of line departments and organizations in carrying out
programs needed to develop the National Population Policy;
(v) Ensure the adequacy of information needed to monitor and evaluate population
policy and programs, and to assess requests for external assistance;
(vi) Ensure continuing visible national and local commitment to population policy, and
facilitate wide publicity and discussion of such policy and programs; and
(vii) Provide advice and proposals on future population policy to the NEC.
The NPC will be directly linked to the NEC. It will also be linked to the Project
Coordinator and PSC. The Project Coordinator is a member of the NPC. Membership of the
NPC will ensure close and direct contact with the Secretaries of major government departments,
provincial departments and NGOs concerned with population policy and its implementation.
Secretariat functions for the NPC will be performed by the PPU.
B. SENIOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The principal persons with senior management responsibility for the project are as
follows:
Project Director
The Project Director will be the Secretary of the DFP. It is necessary to have a
senior person as Project Director to emphasize the importance of the project and of the National
Population Policy, to be able to call high-level meetings, and to exercise authority over all
project participants. The Secretary of the DFP will be a member of the NPC. Although
carrying the title of Project Director, the Secretary of the DFP will not be involved in the
day-to-day management of the project. The Director will, however, carry the highest authority
over all matters relating to the project's implementation.
Project Manager
The Project Manager will be the FAS of the Social Planning Division of the DFP.
Drawing both Project Coordinator and Project Manager from the highest levels of DFP
emphasizes that responsibility for project management is being placed firmly within the existing
bureaucratic structure rather than creating a special organization for this purpose.
The Project Manager will hold responsibility for the operational control,
coordination and monitoring of project activities. In order to facilitate this, the Project Manager
will be the Chairperson of the PSC. The Project Manager is by virtue of the position as FAS
of the Social Planning Division responsible for the DFP's PPU which has vital secretariat
functions for the NPC and the PSC. The Project Manager will report to both the NPC and the
Project Director on behalf of the PSC, which is the most important body dealing with day-to-day
project coordination, control and monitoring.



- 74 -                           ANNEX 7
C. PRojEcr STEERNG COMmrTrEE (PSC)
The PSC will have operational control over project implementation and will be
serve as the integrating body. The PSC will take a global view of the project by monitoring all
project components. It will be invested with the authority to make decisions about the project
in line with the project objectives and plans, in consultation with the Project Director.
The PSC will comprise the principal national government persons responsible for
project implementation. Restricting the permanent membership of the PSC to six persons should
facilitate close working relations between the committee members and promote effectiveness and
rapid response in dealing with project implementation. The permanent members are proposed
as follows:
(i) FAS of the Social Planning Division of the DFP as Chairperson. This person is
also the Project Manager;
(ii) Assistant Secretary (AS) for the Health, Population and Social Services Branch of
the DFP. This person is also directly responsible for the PPU;
(iii) FAS for Maternal Child Health/Family Planning (MCH/FP) of the NDOH (a
proposed new position);
(iv) Coordinator of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the NDOH;
(v) AS of the Division of Women's Affairs in the DRHAY;
(vi) AS of the Non-Government Organization Division of DRHAY.
Other members will be co-opted for particular meetings as is appropriate to deal
with such matters as technical advice, national-provincial relations and NGO activities. The
authority to co-opt will enable the PSC to respond in a flexible and informed way to all aspects
of project implementation. Co-opted members will attend meetings and give advice according
to instructions from the permanent PSC members. The two project advisers (management and
technical) would attend meetings of the PSC on an observer basis.
The functions of the PSC are as follows:
(i) Act as the focal point for the coordination of all project implementation activities
and have operational authority over these activities;
(ii) Be accountable to the NEC and external donors about all matters relating to project
implementation;
(iii) Have the authority to resolve problems which may emerge in the implementation
of the project;
(iv) Monitor regularly the progress of all project activities including work undertaken,
outputs and outcomes;



-75 -                              ANNEX 7
(v) Monitor regularly the allocation and expenditure of all project funds;
(vi) Make decisions relating to project implementation covering all agencies engaged in
these tasks;
(vii) Have the authority to co-opt personnel to provide technical advice on any matter
relating to project implementation;
(viii) Issue instructions to all implementing agencies on actions to be taken to ensure that
project goals are followed and achieved. This may include the modification of
project implementation activities to cope with changing circumstances and
implementation experience;
(ix) Make submissions and report to the NPC on matters relating to the project, and on
population/family planning in general if required by the NPC;
(x) Ensure that the Project Coordinator is kept fully informed of PSC actions and
decisions, and if necessary seek the authority of the Project Coordinator for these
actions and decisions;
(xi) Decide on the appropriate allocation of funds to NGOs and Research Institutions
according to submissions and advice received and requested;
(xii) Utilize the services of the PPU as a Secretariat. All administrative matters will be
dealt with by the PPU Secretariat as required by the PSC. Requirements will be
worked out in consultation with the DFP;
(xiii) Encourage communication between agencies participating in the project; and
(xiv) Publicize the progress of the project to a wide constituency.
It should be noted that as the project evolves and circumstances change, the
functions of the PSC should be reviewed to reflect these changes. In this way, the PSC should
be able to maintain the necessary flexibility and rapidity of response for a project of this nature.
To fulfil its role as focus for the day-to-day running of the project the PSC will
need to meet regularly. The intervals between meetings will be determined by the PSC and the
Project Director according to the demands of the project but it is anticipated that such meetings
will be at least monthly. This will enable members with responsibilities for different project
components to maintain a comprehensive knowledge of the status of other components and of
the project as a whole.
The PSC will be closely linked to all major organizations and bodies concerned with
project implementation and with general population policy. These organizational linkages are
laid out as follows:
(i) The PSC will keep the NPC informed of project progress and will supply
information as required by the NPC;



- 76 -                            ANNEX 7
(ii) The PSC will report to and consult with the Project Director concerning project
progress and decisions made about the project. It is not anticipated that the PSC
will refer all matters to the Project Director as this may overload that person with
business which can be satisfactorily resolved by the PSC. The PSC should wield
considerable delegated authority on project implementation matters;
(iii) The PSC will receive reports from and request information from the PPU as
required. The PSC will issue advice and instructions regarding implementation to
the PPU. Such advice instructions will only cover project activities which fall
under PPU control. The Head of the PPU (AS for the Health and Population
Branch of the Social Planning Division of the DFP) will be a member of the PSC.
The PPU will provide Secretariat services to the PSC;
(iv) The PSC will receive reports from and request information from the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the NDOH. The PSC will issue advice and
instructions regarding implementation to the PIU. Such advice and instructions will
only cover project activities which fall under PIU control. The head of the PIU
will be a member of the PSC; and
(v) The PSC will receive reports from and request information from the Non-
Government Organization and Women's Affairs Divisions of the DRHAY. The
PSC will issue advice and instructions regarding implementation to these divisions.
Such advice and instructions will only cover project activities which fall under the
Divisions control. The AS's who head the two divisions will each be a member of
the PSC.
D. POPULATION PLANNING UNIT (PPU)
The PPU is a section of the Health and Population branch of the Social Planning
Division of the DFP. This is according to the proposed restructure of the DFP which the DPM
is currently considering. The PPU is the successor to the Population Planning and Coordination
Unit (PPCU) which appeared in earlier project planning documents. The PPCU was never
formally established and the PPU represents a slight reformulation of the composition and
functions of the PPCU as originally formulated.
According to the DFP proposal the PPU has the following staff: (i) principal
Program Coordinator (Level 1); (ii) population data analyst (CC 9); (iii) one CC 7; and (iv) one
CC 5.
Due to the volume and nature of work which the PPU will be expected to perform,
an increase in staffing is desirable at least for the duration of the project. In the current
formulation there does not appear to be a person to deal with accounting and budgeting matters.
If, as seems likely, the functions of the PPU include such financial activities, then it is vital to
add somebody to deal with them. The volume of paperwork passing through the PPU should
be considerable, especially as it will be providing Secretariat services to both the NPC and the
PSC. A Keyboard Operator should be included in the PPU to address this matter. The
additional positions should be as follows: (i) project accountant (CC 9); and (ii) Keyboard
Operator (KBO 5).



- 77 -                             ANNEX 7
The DFP has expressed a strong interest in receiving technical assistance to set up
the varied operations of the PPU. There will be much new activity associated with the PPU such
as the Secretariat functions. Coordination of the PPU activities and the building of effective and
efficient links to other agencies involved in the project and in population and family planning in
general are essential. There is a requirement for a consultant who can assist in the creation of
these organizational processes and in training PPU staff in managerial matters. The person
would not be concerned with technical matters such as demography and family planning but
would focus on management with the objective of producing an effective and efficient
organization.
The primary function of the PPU is the coordination of activities, data-gathering
and organizations which are related to population and family planning in PNG. The idea is not
to control other organizations but to provide a central point where relevant information can be
gathered, stored and analyzed; where population indicators useful for planning can be developed;
where population policy proposals can be assessed; where the feasibility of planning proposals
can be assessed; where project and program implementation can be monitored and evaluated;
where assistance can be given to other agencies regarding population and family planning
matters; where the activities of all other agencies engaged in population and family planning is
monitored and evaluated; where publicity and information for population and family planning
matters will be prepared and distributed; where advocacy for population and family planning will
be organized for a range of national and provincial agencies.
From the point of view of the project, the PPU performs vital coordinating
functions. Among the most important are the Secretariat services which the PPU will undertake
for both the NPC and the PSC. These are likely to absorb considerable amounts of PPU time
and effort. It is not a concern at this stage to establish specific operational procedure for the
PPU's Secretariat duties. These can be set up by the PPU, NPC and PSC when these
organizations are actually formally constituted and starting work. It should be recognized that
many of the other routine functions of the PPU will contribute information which will be used
in fulfilling Secretariat functions for the NPC and PSC .
The PPU will directly supervise and coordinate various project activities being
implemented by other organizations. These organizations include: (i) research institutions; and
(ii) National Statistical Office.
The PPU will maintain communication with the other two national government
departments engaged in the implementation of the project. Data and advice are expected to flow
both ways although the PPU will be the recipient of most information given its coordination
functions and its Secretariat role. It will be the official conduit for decisions made by the NPC
and PSC.
The major organizational links of the PPU will be: (i) secretariat for the NPC;
(ii) Secretariat for the PSC; (iii) official communication of NPC and PSC decisions and
requirements to other project organizations; (iv) regular communication with the PIU
(representing the NDOH) and the Division of Women's Affairs (representing the DHAY) on any
matters relating to the project, and to population/family planning matters in general; and
(v) supervision and coordination of the Research Institutions and National Statistical Office
participation in the project.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 7
The AS for Population, Health and Social Services is the direct supervisor of the
PPU and will be expected to take an active and leading role in PPU affairs. The AS's role as
member of the PSC will help to emphasize this responsibility.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
Located in the Policy, Planning and Evaluation Unit (PP&E) of the Administration
Division of the National Department of Health (NDOH), the PIU has 10 years experience in
coordinating health projects funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
According to the recent restructuring of the NDOH, a new division has been created
based on the old components of the PP&E. It maintains its old name, merely substituting
division for unit. The PIU should either remain in this division or be made directly responsible
to the Secretary in order that it will be able to perform its functions which involve dealing with
units in all divisions of the NDOH.
When fully staffed the PIU has an establishment of four officers and one Keyboard
Operator. However, it is currently operating at well below its establishment level. Two of the
four positions are specifically related to the new ADB-funded health project. On advice from
the NDOH it appears that it is necessary to create only one new position for the coordination of
this project. There are scales of economies to be gained from utilizing the existing personnel.
The creation of a new unit to deal exclusively with this project is avoided as it could lead to
unnecessary duplication, inappropriate use of human resources, confusion, and additional costs.
The calculations about PIU capacity to cope with the workload with only one extra person
(Senior Project Officer - World Bank Project) are based on the assumption that the full
establishment, as currently prescribed, is in place. The suggested staffing of the PIU is as
follows: (i) Project Coordinator (Level 1); (ii) Project Accountant (CC 10); (iii) Procurement
Officer (CC 7); (iv) Senior Project Officer (ADB Project) (CC 9); (v) Senior Project Officer
(World Bank Project) (CC 9); and (vi) Keyboard Officer (KBO 5).
For the World Bank project the PIU would utilize the procedures already used for
the ADB projects. They could be modified according to needs and requirements and new
procedures could be instituted where necessary. The basic principle is to build on what is
already known, institutionalized and works. It is unwise to build entirely new structures and
procedures in situations where administrative capacity is limited.
Given the limited administrative capacity in parts of the NDOH and the current
restricted knowledge of PIU procedures it appears desirable to appoint a Technical Advisor (TA)
to the NDOH who would, inter alia, assist the PIU in the review of existing procedures, the
modification where agreed of these procedures, the creation of new procedures to cope with
project activities which are new to the PIU, and the training of PIU and other NDOH personnel
involved in the project. The TA would also assist in establishing management procedures and
monitoring and communications systems for the proposed MCH/FP Division of the NDOH.
The PIU will assume responsibility for a range of project monitoring, advisory and
coordination tunctions involving the following organizational linkages:
(i) The PIU will monitor, advise and provide other services as required to the
departments of the Province involved in this project;



-79 -                             ANNEX 7
(ii) The PIU will advise and provide services as required to the (a) Center for Health
Promotion; (b) units providing educational and training services in the field of
population and family planning; (c) Pharmaceutical Services (this unit is responsible
for ordering and dispatching contraceptives and necessary medical supplies required
in the implementation of the family planning program in the provinces and National
Capital District); and (d) proposed MCH/FP division of the NDOH.
(iii)  The PIU will liaise with any unit of the NDOH as required by the demands of the
project and as requested by the PSC and the NPC;
(iv) The PIU will maintain communication concerning project progress, problems and
other matters with the other implementing units of the major national departments
involved in the project - the PPU of the DFP and the DWA of the DRHAY; and
(v) The PIU will report to the PSC on project progress and will ensure implementation
of PSC decisions in the units for which the PIU is responsible. The official
channel to the PSC will be via the PPU which acts as the Secretariat to the PSC.
However, as the Head of the PIU will be a member of the PSC direct
communication between the two bodies will be facilitated by this link.
F. TmE NON-GOVERNmENT ORGANIZATION AND
WOMEN'S AFAIRS (DWA) DIVISIONS
The two divisions are the units of the DRHAY involved in the implementation of
the project. The divisions will be responsible for the administration of grants provided for
NGOs. The NGOs involved in the first instance are listed below but others may well be added
as the project progresses: (i) PNG Family Planning Association; (ii) PNG Council of Churches;
(iii) PNG National Council of Women.
T he grants for the NGOs will be made through normal budget mechanisms. This
is the preference of the national government. There are established procedures for such a
relationship between government and NGOs. A single line transfer of funds will be made to a
DRHAY activity and this will then be used to fund the work of the NGO. The allocation of the
funds to the NGO will be based on submissions made to the relevant division by the NGOs. The
submissions will be reviewed and approved by the PSC. The NGO to which the funds are given
will account for expenditures and report on work done and outcomes to the DRHAY, and
through the relevant division to the PSC.
The organizational links will be as follows:
(i) The relevant division will be responsible for the administration of the project funds
allocated to NGOs. The NGOs will be accountable for the expenditure of these
funds and for the work undertaken to the relevant division, and through it to the
PSC.
(ii) The divisions will maintain communication concerning project progress, problems
and other matters with the other implementing units of the major national
departments involved in the project - the PPU of the DFP and the PIU of the
NDOH.



- 80 -                           ANNEX 7
(iii) The divisions will report to the PSC on project progress and will ensure
implementation of PSC decisions concerning matters relating to the NGOs. The
official channel to the PSC will be via the PPU which acts as the Secretariat to the
PSC. However, as the Heads of the Non-Government Organization Division and
DWA will be members of the PSC direct communication between the two bodies
will be facilitated by this link.



- 81 -
ANNEX O
Pago 1  3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Implemonntion Schedule
Bank FY                               1994          199 i      |  199i          1997           199t          1990   =
Calondar/PNO Fiscal Year               1993          1994          190           10996         1907          199t        0990
(07/93) <-Est matadEffective ea                           Compledon  oeate-    t (00/00)
Loan 4losing Date.-. 4/99)
1. PROVINCIAL FAMILY PLANNING SERVICE DELIVERY
Civil Works:
Renov.1extenslon df health eonters:
Tender does.preparaton and                        _ _
iN approval by GOPNG & IBRO /a
Tender & contract award                                    _     _       _ _
Construction
Furnishing
Equipment:
Tender doce.preparadon and
it approval by GOPNC & I3RD /a
Tender & contract award                                    _ _
DiiveryAlnstallaon
Clinical kitlb b
Technical assistance:
MCHlFP training adviser NOOH                                    -_
Training specialists (N)
Director family planning UPNO                           ._
Oesign/support/doca for TOT                             ._        _   _          _   _          _
Teaching materials pecialists
Training:
Training of Tralenra Courses
TOT refresher courses                                    _           _             _             _
Domeslc traiing
Overseas training (3-weeks)
Planning. Management & Supervision of FP
Rehviw and revision of the MiS for MCH/FP
I. PROGRAM SUPPORT
UDoradina ContraceDoUe/Pharmaceudcal
Loaislc System:
Clvil works: (extenslon/renov.od AMSs)
Work schedules prepared
SpecilicaBons prepared
Construction
Equipment: (moving equipment, racking systems)
Area Medical Stores submit formal requesbt
DoNvery/instaIliaon
ContracepUvee & STD related drugs:
Procurement processing                           _             _             _
Delivery
Technical assistance:
Contraceptivs/pharmaceutcail loghsdc specialist
Computer speciallst
Training:
Inservice training for dspensers                               _             _
Preservice tralning for dipensers
Domslic training for new pharmacists
Overseas feilowehips
/a Tender documxntb upon approval by GOPNO and IBRD will be used as standard documents under the project.
/b Clinical kits for health conters and hospitals will be procured through a UN agency.



- 82 -
ANUiX O
pag 2 of 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Imprnienltaon Schedul* (condnued)
Bank FY                                1904          10095         111        |  117         L        ,1L   *
Calendar/PNO Fiscal Year                1903          1904          log0o          100           1ItT7         16           101,1
(07M03) <-Elt ated Effeoole *se                            Compleon a -  (o100)
Uporading of Family Planning Promotion Capacift:                                                                  Loan C ooing Odei-  
Civil Works: (construction of Health Promotion
Center):
SpecIfcation prepared
Contract award
Construction
Technical assistance:
Resident adviser (communication apeclait)
Short-term consultants (as required)
IEC Development: (general sequence):
Situation analysis (field vielt/KAP survey)
Finalization of communications strategy
Development of IEC messegee                                       -            _             _              _
Fil1d pre-testing of IEC messages
Production of IEC messages
Dlsermination of IEC messages
Monitoring of IEC mesesges
Increasing Population a FP Reesarch Capacity:
Civil Works: (staff houses)
Tender & contract award
Construction
Equipment:
Tender & contract award
DOiiveryAlnstaIlation
Technical assistance:
Social scientist
Teaching fellow                                                                              _____
Pop/FP health specialist
Overseas training
Student field research
Demogireohic Data Collecton    Utilkzafon:
Equlp ment:
Tender a contract award
Deliveryllnstailstion
Technical assistance:
Pop data analyst & ciil r.giatr specil t
Tralning:
Domestic training
Overseas training
Health & demographic survey



- 83 -
ANNEX I
Flages3 s01
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Impiementsglon Schedule (continued)
BSank FY                              1994          100695                      1 190 . 191117    1J190  149
Calendar/PNG Fiscal Year               19g3          1994          1990         1e"           1097         101m          le
(07p/93 <-Es tated Efecfvoe sea                           Cormppion   a-(Oe/Op 
In. PROJECT MANACEMENT & IMPLEMENTATION                                                                            Loa Closing DaOo  >(O00)
National Population Council established and mainta
maintIned
Proelct SterIng Committee establshed and
maintained
Popubtaon Planning Unit In DFP established and
maintained
Project Implementatlon Unit In NDOH established
and maintaIned
Equipment:
Vehicl*s
Office equlpmentjfurniture                                            _
Technical Assistance:
Sr. project advisor                                    _
Project administrator. PPU/DFP
Project technIcal sdvIsor, PIU/NDOH
Provincial program advisor                             .
Training:
DomesIec
Overseas short-tbrm vIsitb_
Project launch worckshop
Joint project supervislon and evaluatlon
Mid-term review
Reporting requirements:
Semi-annual progress reports
Anual audit reports



- 84 -                            ANNEX 9
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
MoNITORING AND EVALUATION SYSnEM
Introduction
1.        In accordance with GOPNG's Population and Health policies, the project has three
operational aims to be achieved during the project period i.e.
-  expansion and improvement in family planning services, including IEC;
-  institutional development and capacity raising;
-  demographic data collection and utilization.
2.         Together those inputs would (i) realize the human right of couples to plan their
family size through better access to and use of family planning; (ii) lower maternal and child
mortality and morbidity as a result of appropriate birth spacing; and (iii) achieve a reduction in
the rate of population growth through the prevention of unwanted births.  In addition,
demographic data collection would enable the government to integrate demographic data into
development planning and resource allocation, at the national as well as the provincial levels.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Activities and Family Planning Services
3.         In the initial years of the project, emphasis will be placed on monitoring of inputs
into the process of improving services through the implementation of planned activities by the
government departments and other institutions responsible for distinct activities. Performance
indicators are:
-  timeliness of completion of activities as compared to deadlines;
-  quality and appropriateness of those activities e.g., design of demand
generation materials in accordance with user-needs i.e., providers and clients;
-  reporting reliability and completeness.
4.         Starting from the second project year onward, progress on service quantity and
quality should become measurable in terms of continuity of contraceptive supplies, effective
choice of methods by clients and satisfaction with services received and growing awareness of
population issues in PNG among policy makers and the public at large. These intermediate
project objectives would be evaluated through:
- analysis of service statistics from all types of health facilities and support
services and focussed feedback to the data providers;



- 85 -                             ANNEX 9
- focus group research;
- supervision visits and reports; and
- clinic exit interviews.
Impact Evaluation
5.         Impact evaluations i.e., improvements in contraceptive prevalence, fertility and
mortality levels and population-development planning effectiveness will only be possible on the
basis of appropriate benchmark data. Those data are not available at the initiation of the project
specific to the project provinces nor reliable for the country as a whole.
6.         Project inputs will aim to develop those benchmark data i.e., for awareness on
FP/MCH and population issues, for utilization of services and for the status of demographic data
collection and utilization through a high quality Demographic and Health Survey in 1995
i.e., about the mid-point of the project period. That survey will provide the benchmark data for
impact evaluations by the end of the 5-year project period and beyond that period.
Participatory Formative Evaluation Style
7.         The monitoring and evaluation system to be used under the project will aim to
detect in a timely manner situations where implementation capacity does not match the
expectations implicit in the implementation schedule. This will enable project management to
identify problems and direct assistance, in a timely and relevant manner, to upgrading staff
capacity and removing administrative barriers to performance.
8.         It is the intention that the first year implementation schedule be discussed and
reviewed at the Project Launch Workshop, to be held once the Project receives approval, with
the involvement of representatives of all implementing parties. The final implementation
schedule will provide the basis for assessment of performance as specified above.
Evaluation Scores and Feedback
9.         A scale of 1 to 5 will be used to score performance on meeting quantitative as well
as qualitative objectives, as follows:
I = excellent
2 = good
3 = fair
4 = weak
5 = no performance
Scores between 3 and 5 would indicate that formative action has to be taken by project
management matching the degree of seriousness of the problem identified. Persistent problems
would be referred to the Project Steering Committee for support in resolving structural problems
and barriers to performance exceeding the capacity of day to day project management to resolve.



- 86 -                              ANNEX 9
Key areas for monitoring
10.        Training. As a key input to staff development for capacity building, training
activities in all substantive technical areas will receive special attention through evaluations of
capacity pre- and post training attendance. In addition, the selection and deployment of trainees
will be systematically reviewed to ensure that those that are selected will be in a position to
utilize the training received in their assigned posts. Feedback on training activities will be given
to the departments of origin of the trainees.
11.        Supply of contraceptives. Whatever other progress is made on project activities,
a reliable supply of contraceptives is key to achievement of the ultimate project objectives.
Special attention will be paid to monitoring the flow and availability of contraceptives and the
identification of bottlenecks and barriers in the case of supply failures. Prompt and appropriate
corrective action by project management will be a key indicator of project performance.
12.        Health Promotion. To ensure free and informed choice by couples of reproductive
age, technically and culturally appropriate health promotion materials and campaigns to the
public is a pre-condition. From the second project year onwards, small scale research and
evaluations will be carried out, through contractual services by the University and research
institutions, to assess the dissemination of materials and the impact of health messages on
knowledge and comprehension by different cultural and language groups.
13.        Ethics and Quality.  Quality of service, free and informed choice and full
information will be the principle governing service delivery. Courtesy, patience and respect for
clients must at all times be exercised. Project management will carry out quality control on that
basis and follow-up on all legitimate complaints being voiced by clients and community
organizations such as the churches, women's groups and other community based organizations.
Satisfied clients are a prerequisite for progress and for achieving significant improvement in
women's health.
Responsibility for Evaluation
14.        Evaluation is a shared responsibility by all involved parties, including the funding
agencies, as an integral part of ensuring project success. Thus, first line responsibility rests with
those whose task it is to carry out specific activities.  The draft Implementation and
Administration Manuals, to be developed before the project launch workshop, will assign
primary responsibility for all first year project activities as well as contributory responsibility if
inputs from several departments and agencies is necessary for satisfactory completion of a
specific activity. Those manuals will be discussed at the launch workshop in Lae and agreement
sought on the final distribution of responsibilities.
15.        Monitoring of deadlines will be carried out by project management i.e., the PPU
(DFP) and the PIU (NDOH) on a monthly basis. Compilation of these monitoring reports
indicating actions taken on identified delays will form the basis for twice-yearly reports to the
Project Steering Committee and the funding agencies. Those reports will be discussed during
consortium supervision missions and the Project Review and Project Planning exercise to be
carried out yearly with involvement of the NPC and the Project Review and Project Planning
exercise.



-87 -                            ANNEX 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
SUPERVIWSON PLAN
1. General Considerations
In view of the following factors the project will require intensive supervision:
(a)    The project represents a major new initiative for the PNG Government,
involving several relatively inexperienced implementing agencies;
(b)    The project is complex, covering a number of sectors with scattered foci of
implementation (at national level and in five provinces);
(c)    There is possible phased expansion to other provinces at appropriate stages
during the life of this project;
(d)    Substantial time is required for travel in-country;
(e)    Coordination with the two other project funding agencies (ADB and AIDAB)
creates additional staff effort;
(f)    Continued dialogue will also be required with all agencies providing
development assistance in the population sector (including UNDP/UNFPA,
USAID and others), and with higher government officials; and
(g)    The absence of a resident mission in PNG imposes a higher workload on
members of visiting supervision teams.
The three funding agencies will conduct at least two joint supervision missions
each year, beginning with the project launch workshop in August 1993.  September is an
appropriate point in the budget cycle of the PNG government for annual project review and
planning activities.
It is agreed that ADB and AIDAB will provide representatives with project
expertise on these missions, as well as appropriately timed technical supervision of those project
components for which they have particular responsibility, including IEC, logistics, NGO support,
training, research and the demographic and health survey.
The table below gives estimated World Bank staff input for supervision for
FY94-96. The requirement would be reviewed before each mission according to the current
circumstances.



- 88 -                             ANNEX 10
2. Bank Supervision Input FY93-96
Approx.                                      Skill                    Staff Weeks
Date              Activity                 Requirements         Field     HQ     Total
8/93        Launch workshop         TM (public health)            4        2        6
Start up briefings      Senior Project Off.(VP)       3        -       3
Review special acct.    Procure/Disb. Officer         3        1       4
& audit requirement    Population Specialist 3        1       4
Total     13        4       17
11/93       Project Supervision
Health/pop tech review  TM (public health)            3        1       4
Finance/procurement     Procure/Disb. Officer         3        1       4
review
Total      6        2        8
4/94        Project Supervision     TM                            4        1        5
Annual project review   Population Specialist         4        1       5
Govt./donor sector rev.    Procure/Disb. Officer      4        1       5
Field visits                              Total      12        3      15
FY'94 Total                40
9/94        Project Supervision     TM                            3        1        4
Budget Review           Procure/Disb.Officer          2        2       4
Total      5        3       8
4i95        Project Supervision
Annual project review   TM                            4        1       5
Govt/donor sector rev.    Population Specialist       4        1       5
Field visits            Procure/Disb. Officer         2        2       4
Planning for mid-term
review                                    Total     10        4       14
FY'95 Total                22
9/95        Project Supervision     TM                            3        1        4
Analysis of mid-term    Population Specialist         3        1       4
review                 Institutional Specialist      2        -        2
Budget review           Procure/Disb. Officer         2        2       4
Total     10        4       14
4/96        Project Supervision     TM                            3        1        4
Annual project review   Population Specialist         3        1       4
Govt/donor sector rev.    Procure/Disb. Officer       3        2       5
Field visits
Total      9        4       13
FY'96 Total                27
TM = Task Manager



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                    Totals Including Contingencies
Kina                                                               USS
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   Total            1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                           51    1115    1780       956      516        0    4418           54    1170    1868    1003        542        0    4636
B. Equipment & Furniture                  14     648      926      114      65        0    1768           15      680     972      120       69        0    1855
C. Contraceptives & drugs               241      562      710     877    1060       588    4038          253      589     746      920    1112      617    4237
D. IEC & Media Production                154     616      734      391     332       51    2277          161      646     770      410      349       53    2390
E. Training
1. Training of Trainers               33       51      45       56       26        0     211          34       53       47      59       27        0      221
2. Domestic Training                 185      585     746      844      829      283    3471          194     614      783     885      870      296    3642
3. Overseas Training                   0      353     317      325      147       46    1188            0     371      333      341      154      49    1247
Sub-Total                               217      989    1108    1225    1002        329    4870          228    1038    1163    1286    1051        345    5111
F. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                   240      732     586      371      374      177    2480         252      768      615     389      393      186    2603
2. Capacity Building                 376    1155      935      672      628      247    4012         394    1211       981      705     659      259    4210         oo
3. Policy Support                     35       73      88       79       95       43     413          37       77       92       83      99       45      434        %D
Sub-Total                               651    1960    1609    1122    1097         467    6905          683    2056    1688    1177    1151        490    7246
G. Studies                               21       84       88      130      96       34      454          23       88      93      136      101      35      476
H. Demographic Survey                     0        0    1235         0       0        0    1235            0        0    1296        0        0       0    1296
1. Field Activities (NGO)                26      159      190     199      197        0      770          27      167     199      209      207       0      808
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 1376    6132    8380    5014    4366    1469   26737             1444    6434    8793    5261    4581    1541   28055
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Salaries                  129     348      388      409     431      225    1930          136      365     407      430      453      236    2025
B. Operations & Maintenance             213      459      453     490      538      366    2519          223      482     475      514      564     384    2643
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   342      807      840     900      969      591    4449          359     847      882      944    1017      620    4668
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1718    6939    9220    5914    5335    2059   31186             1803    7281    9675    6205    5598    2161   32724
=======================================    ============= =====================
Values Scaled by 1000.0
z
..



PAPUA WEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANWING PROJECT
SunLaTry Account by Project Conponent
Kina
Promot io
Other     Wat't       C/P                 n of       Pop               Project
E.New   E.Highla              b.Capita  S.Highla  W.Highla  Province   Dept of  Logistic   Support  Heatth&F           F/P    Demograp Manageme
Britain     nds      Morobe        I         nds        rods       s       Health    System   for NGOs       /P      Research  hic Data    nt          Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civit Works                            550        393        273       637        430        540          0         0        480         80       150        180          0        0       3713
B. Equipment & Furniture                  107        109        102       103        112        106          0        50        625         56        10         41         72       37       1530
C. Contraceptives & drugs                   0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0       3391          0         0          0          0        0       3391
D. IEC & Media Prodictlon                 225        225        225       225        225        225          0         0          0          0       572          0          0        D       1921
E. Training
1. Training of Trainers                    0         0          0          0          0          0         0        178          0         0          0          0         0         0        178
2. Domestic Training                     199       260        432        130        239        230       500        523         55         78         0         81         80       45       2852
3. Overseas Training                      90         72        78         40         48         48         0         60        133          0         0        180        174       96       1019
SLb-total                                 289       332        510        170        287        278       500        762        188         78         0        261        254      141       4050
F. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                         0         0          0          0          0          0         0        498          0        20          0         60        60      1480       2119
2. Capacity Buitding                       0         0          0          0          0          0         0       1301        323        144      1448        222          0        0       3438
3. Policy Support                          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0      350        350
Sub-totat                                   0          0         0          0          0          0         0       1800        323        164      1448        282         60     1830       5907
G. Studies                                  0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0         0         20          0      355        375
H. Demographic Survey                       0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0       1042        0       1042
1. Field Activities (NGO)                   0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0       664          0          0          0        0        664
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                   1171       1059      1110       1136       1053       1149       500       2611       5007       1042      2179        784       1428     2363      22592
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Salaries                   117         99         83        90        131         45          0        72        297          0       410         51          0      157       1553
B. Operations * Maintenance               180        222        143        192       230        177          0        65        480         16         87        44          5      219       2059
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     297        321        226        282       361        222          0        137       T7m         16       497         95          5      376       3612
Total BASELINE COSTS                     1468       1379       1336       1418      1414       1370        500      2749       5784       1058      2676        879       1433    2740       26204
Physical Contingencies                   73         69        67         71         71         69          0       137        289          0        134        44         72      137       1233
Price Contingencies                     226        238       211        233        209        230        112       387        786        142       349         87        175      364       3749
Total PROJECT COSTS                      1768       1686       1613      1721       1694       1669       612       3274       6859       1200      3160       1010       1680    3240       31186
===========::====== ==== =a =============== ============== ===s======z======================S==ztg... . ==--...==.= .......
Taxes                                    21         15        10         24         16         21          0         0         17          3          5         6          0        0        139
Foreign Exchange                        623       575        550        601        550        583        116      1772       5028        292      1796        604        695    2042      15826
Values Scated by 1000.0
0-



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPIAATiON AND FALTY PLANNING PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
dsdino -o11ng n...W)
e. USII h0-0.d)
Eq.4pm.nl .I du *        Co.n,.sup O  .       IEC                                     Dh..ogm. b.,d..
Ch2  ..k.                         d           ,       na               nd       d     T,elSng               tIc        b.Ionc          BIudl                     NS                          c 00  .cu.  101.w
6.0101..        67a0T &.Og.    111.pooA, T                                                                                      0116         0.1TOTAL
Conpon.6          00-                      GO-                          GO-              O0-                                                                                                           G-0       GO-
PNO    ADS    IBRD   PNO    ADO  AIDA0  IORD  PN0              SOID   PN0N    ADO    ADD   AIDAS  I50D   ADS   AIDAB   !SRD    AIDA    ISRD    AIDAS   OOPNO  ADS                    PNO       PNG     ADS    AIDAS    LOAD
V.P B..... DO666..:DI
E  N    5_.              66              61      12                   117                      11     224              371                                                                                   a4        626     224       371     734        I'"
E Hig    d              GI    -          462     13   -       -       121                     a6      224              423    -                                                                               18      63       224      623      63s       I.70S
M.o"S.                    4              310     12          I-        I                       "      224    .         63                                                                                    2*3      se       224      663      421       i.0S3
N C.                    GI    -          734     13                   112                      11     224              216                                                                                   371      S21      224      216      64       1S0G
S. HWA6d.               62              470      I)    -      -       121    -                        224              36     .                                                                              473      604      224      346     61         1.777
W. wg14Id.               70              626     13   -       -       11             1.        6      224              367                                                                                   260      426      224      367      742       1.7S1
O.h.pF. O.             .       .          .     .      .  .              .            .       .               -         43        -                                                                                      O       O 042             0         642
NOON TI.6N45
NDHh.k6                                                                                                                _ h  S2  -  741    -I          -        -       .                                      4       64        0    2.637        0       2.731
M.d.p..N      .                                                      23    -170                                                                       424                                                    76       76        0        0     626          703
S2t4 df               36        0   3.221      77      0      36    721       0        0   *34    1.344        0   3.610    176        0   1.616      424         0      0          0      0        0    2.406    3.174    1.344    6.666   4044        14.728
P.t.1.. SOppo
phs   *X o c/          b2      622    -               767                  3.137    1,100                    227    -        -        362                              -                                  1.004    4.200   1,6*6         0   1.100        7.R2
Suppm1m NO6                                                                                                      3 -  .  -  I          167                                                 lt1    76 1.    20         209   1,0'0         0        0       1,264
P.-6.66, .d h h          IS     its             -       12    -      -                        142     I6      .                      1.777    -                                                             S"4       765   *.017         0        0       3.316
a Il- t y pI.11d.g
Pop 9F0P sP .h          20 g             12                           A4                     - -22                                                      S30               23                                 110      141        0        0      StI       1.000
Pb..d91M.                                                      64                                                       12            -         70                                                             7        7        0      164        0         17I
D6...  pJ  d.s.                                                                                                        204    .                                                   124                                    O   0   0    I,m          0       1.600
tOP.4   gI                .                 -                  43    -                                                 l76                    1.70     263 /Il  414        610.c                             476      476        0    2,602      322       8400
II.M4.6                *      * S      162      2    760    127      46   3.137    1.100    142    6s6       320     461    322   2.346   2.040       D*       44       2       12*04    16      70      2.264    5632    5.465    4,366   2.341        17.s6
TOTAL                 4632 2    1    3.413    7I     70    169        767   3.137   1 100    476   1. 13 320   4 261    600   2 46   3,66   1,043              414      62      1222    I'*l    700    -.71          004   6,40*    10,024   6.646      32.724
h. 61.611666 36._ue6.lI d6366. I..my 101 6 1 Cound6 d W0..6, nd4 pl-oUlon.d *q.ipW.4 101 PNGPUAa
/b A -d4. p,t4 Q   d. .
/c W d 4.1 160 4 4.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l I
a0



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Summary of Program
_mple-           Start of Work     Compl. of Work     Cost ( 000)a        Person/Month    |         mpSmentlo
List of TA                                            ment-   Fund-                                                                                          Progress
Contract/ActMty                                           lng     lng       Ori-   Current    Ort-   Current     Ori-    Current     Orl-    Curent           (Satisfactory/
Purpose/Oblectve         Agency  Agency    ginal    Est.       ginal    Est.      ginal     Est.     ghal       Est.          Unsatisfactory)
A. PROJECT SUPPORT
1. Heath worker training      Improve and expand existing in-servce  NDOH   AIOAB   See               See                  309                 31
(short-term)                traning capacty for health care                        B 1.              B.1.
workers at all levels as wel as distance            below              below
larnhg.
2. Medcak Practitioner        Increase knowledge of medtat      UPNG/   tBRO       06/94              06/98                214                  14
tnaning (short term)        practitioners on FP and develop a  NDOH
short certicale coure in FP for
docton.
3. Pop/Health speclit         Revise the currIculum to Improve   DFP/   IBRO       03/94              09/94                 B3                   6
(Dept.of CommunIty Medicine,   tinig of Pop/FP and women's     UPNG
UPNG)                        health.
4. DemographIc data:          Review progess in CMl Registratlon  NSO    AJDAB    03/94               06/94                 63                   2
a. PopuatIon data analyst    and explor the legal requIrements for
b. CM regstratlon            a CR system, and review and
(CF) specIalst             recommend the structure and
component of PDS/CR database.
5. Proect Management:         ProvkIe advice andassistamce on    DFP/              07/93              06/98               1,314              119.5
a. Proladmhilstrator(PPU)    al aspects of prolect Implementation .  NDOH/  AIDAB
b. Tech. advisor (NOOH)                                        DHAY
c. Prov.program advser(NDOH)
d. MCH/FP MIS speclaltt
a. WD advisor
f. Sr. proect advisor                                                   IBRO                                             240                  16
B. CAPACITY BUILDING
1. Health worker training     Improve the competence od managers,  NDOH   AIDAB    07/93             06/98               1,218                 164
(long-term)                  evice taff and admnistratve
personnel.
Improve and expand existing In-service
tsingt capacity for health workers
at 5l levels.
N



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PPOGRAM
Summary of Program (continued)
Impbe-            Start of Work      Compl of Wor       Cost (S'000) /a      Person/Month              Implementation
List of TA                                              ment-   Fund-                                                                                              Progress
Contract/ActMty                                             Ing      ing       On-   CurTent      Ori-   Current     Or-    Current       Or-    Current            (Satisfactory/
Purpose/Objective         Agency  Agency    ginal      Est.      ginal     Est.      ginat     Est.      ginal      Est.           Unsatisfactory)
2. Medical Practitioner tranlng  Develop al aspects of the university's   UPNG    IBRD  07/93            06/95                 147                   24
oong-term)                   program of clinical training In family
planning.
3. Contracepttve/Pharmaceutical   Improve and reinforce the hnstituonal    NWOH    ADB  01/94            06/95                 339                   24
logistc system:              capacity of the Pharmacoutlcai Service
a. Contraceptive and          Dvision of NDOH.
logistic specialist
b. Computer specalst
4. Supportfor NGOs             Provlde advice and assistance In    DFP/    ADB        11/93              10/95                 172                   24
identtiUng and Implementing activites   DHAY
and train NGO staf I prolect
management. accounting and report
preparation, and develop teachying
akis.
5. Health and famly plann-     Transfer sk-l In communications to  NDOH    ADO        07/93              06/98                1,519                 101
log promotion program        promote famIly planning program.
6. Pop & FP Pesearch:           ncrease research and training capacity   DFP/    IBRD  07/93             06/96                 233                   72
a. Socal acentist (IMF)      at PNG instiute of Medical Research    IMR/
b. FP instruictor (UPNG)     and UPNG.                           UPNO
C. POUCY SUPPORT
Support to Population Planning    Provkd adstvce and assistance on  DFP    AIDAB    07/93                06/98                 367                  30
Untt                          population poNcy related tksues.
TOTAL                                                                              6198                627 5
/a Baseline costs. Provison ha aiso been made In the prolect costs to recrut additional consuktants to meet unforeseen requirements.
Abbrviations: DFP - Depanment of Finance and Planning; DHAY - Department of Home Afairs and Youth; IMR - Institute of Medical Research;
NDOH - Natonal Department of Health; NSO - National Statistica Office; PDS - Provincial Data System; UPNG - UniversIty of Papua New Guinea
5 z
to 



- 94 -
ANNEX 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Consultant Services by Year and Source of Funding (person-month) /a
Source
Component/Activities              N/E'   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  TOTAL                of
Funding
1. PROVINCIAL FAMILY PLANNING
SERVICE DELIVERY
llcalth Worker Training:
MCH/FP training advisor, NDOH              (E)        6      12      12      12      12       6       60    AIDAB
Training specialists (2), NDOH             (N)         -    24       24      24      24       8      104    AIDAB
Teaching materials development             (E)         -      3       3        -       -       -       6    AIDAB
(N)         -     10       5       -       -       -      15    AIDAB
Distance learning                          (E)                 -      4       2       2       2       10    AIDAB
Medical Practitioncr Training:
Director Family Planning, UPNG             (E)        6      12       6        -       -      -       24     IBRD
Expert's visits for trg/workshops          (E)         -      2       2       2       2       -        8     IBRD
Short-certificate course                   (E)         -       -      2       2       2                6     IBRD
Trial of CBD of contraceptives               (N)          -     *                -       -       -       *    AIDAB
Subtotal                                           12      63      58      42     42      16      233
II. PROGRAM SUPPORT
Contraceptive/Pbarmaceutical Logistic
System:
Contraceptive logistic specialist          (E)               12       6                               18      ADB
Computer specialist                        (E)                6        -                               6      ADB
Support for NGOs: Adviscr                    (N)         3      12      9                               24      ADB
Promotion of Health & Family Planning:
Res. advisor (health promotion specialist)   (E)      6      12      12      12      12       6       60     ADB
Short-term consultants                     (E)        3       5       5       3       2       0       18     ADB
Short-term consultants                     (N)        3       4       4       5       7       0       23     ADB
Population & Family Planning Rcscarch:
Pop/FP health specialist, UPNG             (E)         -      6        -       -       -      -        6     IBRD
Social scientist, IMR                      (E)        6      12      12       6                       36     IBRD
Teaching fellow                            (N)        6      12      12       6                       36     IBRD
Demographic Data Collection and
Utilization:
Pop data analysis and design PDS/CR data-  (E)         -   0.75        -       -      -       -    0.75    AIDAB
base & preparation of customized software
Civil registration                         (E)         -   1.25        -       -       -      -    1.25    AIDAB
Project Management:
Senior project advisor                     (E)        2       3       3       3       3       2       16    IBRD
Project administrator-management, PPU      (E)        6      12      12      12      12       6       60    AIDAB
Technical advisor, NDOH                    (N)        6      12      12      12      12       6       60    AIDAB
Provincial program advisor, NDOH           (E)        6      12       6                       -       24    AIDAB
MCH/FP MIS specialist                      (E)         -      2       2        -      -       -        4    AIDAB
Women in Development advisor               (E)       1.5       -               -              -      1.5    AIDAB
Subtotal                                         48.5    124       95      59     48      20    394.5
TOTAL                                            605    187    15        101      22       ;      27
/a Provision has also been made in the project cost to recruit additional consultants to meet unforeseen requirements.
* N = national consultants, E = expatriate consultants.
* Details of activities to be refined.



- 95 -                             ANNEX 14
PAPUAL NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year          Amount per    Cumulative           Disbursement profile La
semester       Amount  %                    %
--------- (US$ million) ---------
1994
1                          0.5/b         0.5       7                  0
2                          0.2           0.7      10                   3
1995
1                          0.5            1.2    17                   6
2                          0.5            1.7    25                   14
1996
l                          0.7           2.4    35                   22
2                          0.7            3.1     45                  34
1997
1                          1.0           4.1     59                  46
2                          1.0            5.1     74                 54
1998
1                          0.6           5.7      83                 66
2                          0.6            6.3    91                   74
1999
1                          0.3           6.6     96                  82
2                          0.3            6.9    100                  86
Project Closing Date: June 30, 1999.
/a Latest standard disbursement profile for all sectors in PNG dated June 5, 1992.
/b Initial deposit into special account.



- 96 -                             ANNEX 15
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
SELECTED DocuMENTs IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A-i   Papua New Guinea. Management, Manpower, Money: A Select Review of Health and
Population in Papua New Guinea, IBRD, February 25, 1991.
A-2    Papua New Guinea. Structural Adjustment, Growth and Human Resource Development,
IBRD, May 1, 1991.
A-3    Papua New Guinea.  Competitiveness, Growth and Structural Adjustment, IBRD,
March 31, 1992.
A-4    National Health Plan 1991-1995, Department of Health, 1991.
A-5    Handbook, Health Statistics, Papua New Guinea, Department of Health, July 17, 1990.
A-6    An Integrated National Population Policy for Progress and Development, Department
of Finance and Planning, Papua New Guinea, June 5, 1991.
A-7    Papua New  Guinea:  Women in Development, Margaret Nakikus et al, UNDP,
August 1991.
B.    Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-i    Male Attitudes and Knowledge of Reproduction, Women's Role and Family Planning
in Highland Papua New Guinea, K.J. Pataki-Schweizer, August 1992
B-2    Logistics for Contraceptive Supply and Pharmaceutical Supply, SEATS, Alan Bass,
September 14, 1992.
B-3    Papua New Guinea Contraceptive Attitude and Usage Study, Carol Jenkins and Kerry
Pataki-Schweizer, Institute of Medical Research, Papua New Guinea, September 1991.
C.    Selected Working Paper
C-I    Detailed Cost Tables.



I R I A N    J AYA    (I N D O  N E S I A)
o~~   ~~~... - ---------T                                                                      -----
7      --- _        _ - ---------
,                                                          N c                                                  k0W     
- - -  - -  - - -- - -- - -  - -  - - 
'1~ ,, /   ,:
j                                     h____________-------- --------J--- 
I M I                                                                S
I   .9  /~~~~~~~~~~
_______                                                                        -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>C
_________________________________________________ 
ti~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-I
4flf                                                                                                   r) >~~~I   7 12  *
Lg



