Do_mment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. 1 -yys Z
Rqept No. P-4172--4AI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 28.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 37.4 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FOR A THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
November 25, 1985
I  Uk deemmmat kM a_rpied dknthm and ua_ y be md by redpient ony in She pcfe nc of
their oUik  dntl Mg combat my be  hewke be dbsacieui wh   Wdi BDk   humlzad..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(August 1985)
Currency Unit = Malawian Rwacha (MI)
US$1 = MK 1.80
A1K 1 = US$0.57
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC            =  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
EPD                  Economic Plan9ing Division of OPC
ESCON                Electricity Supply Commission
INDEBANK          =  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
KfW               =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDC               =  Malawi Development Corporation
MEPC              =  Mala'wi Export Promotion Council
MTTCO             =  Malawi International Transport Company
ODA               =  Overseas Development Administration of the United
Kingdom
OECF              =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OPC               =  Office of the President and Cabinet
Press (Holdings)  =  Press Holding Company
PSIP                 Public Sector Investment Program
SPPF              =  Special Project Preparation Facility
USAID             =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDITS SUMMARY a/
Borrower:       Republic of Malawi
Amount: h/      IDA:                SDR 28.0 million (US$30.0 million
equivalent)
African Facility: SDR 37.4 million (US$40.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:          Standard for IDA and the African Facility
Credit          The credits would support the Government's structural
Description:    adjustment program.  They follow-up a loan made in June
1981, and a credit in January 1984. The program is
designed to encourage productivity and efficiency,
diversify the export base and promDte exports, strengthen
the Government's policy making capability, and improve the
performance of development institutions. The foreign
exchange provided by this credit would be used for
essential imports. The Government will use the counterpart
funds for development purposes.
Estimated       A total of about US$99.0 million equivalent including
Disbursements:  USS29.0 million equivalent of Special Joint Financing would
be disbursed in two tranches, the first in the amount of
US$50.0 million being made available for disbursement as
soon as the credits become effective, and the remaining
US$49.0 million after a review of second tranche release
conditions in June 1986.
Risks:          The principal risks relate to the Government's ability to
implement parts of the program in a timely fashion, and to
overcome external difficulties arising from transport
disruptions and fluctuations in international prices.
a/ There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
b/ In addition, Special Joint Financing of Y 5.3 billion (about US$22.6
million) and of DM20 million (about US$6.4 million) would be provided
respectively by Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany. Bilateral
assistance from USAID totalling US$15.0 million equivalent would be
provided on a parallel basis.
This docurnent has a restrict distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONYENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS TO MALAWI FOR A
TIURD STRUCTURAL ADJUSThEN OPERATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit of SDR 28.0 million (US$30.0 million equivalent) and a proposed
African Facility credit of SDR 37.4 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) to
the Government of Malawi for a Third Structural Adjustment Operation.
Special Joint Financing of Y 5.3 billion (about US$22.6 mill!on equivalent)
and DM 20.0 million (about US$6.4 million equivalent) would be provided
by Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively. In adddition,
USS15.0 million in parallel bilateral cofinancing would be provided by
USAID.
AR  I .  THE BCONONY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum, ertitled 'Malawi Economic
Recovery: Resource and Policy Needs- (Report No. 5801-MAI) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985. Basic country data are
given in Annex I.
3.        Malawi is a small landlocked country in southeastern Africa with
a population -f 6.6 million in 1983. With a per capita GNP of US$210,
Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. The agricultural
sector accounts for over 40 percent of GDP and 85 percent of employment.
The country's main assets are a moderately fertile soil, good water
resources and a climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its
neighbors, Malawi has no substantial known mineral resources.
Past Performance of the Economy
4.        For about a decade and a half after independence in 1964, the
Malawi economy displayed vigorous growth. Real GDP grew at an average rate
of 5.5 percent per annum over the period 1967-79, corresponding to nearly
3.0 percent per capita. During the same period gross domestic investment
increased at an annual rate of 12.5 percent, raising investment's share of
GDP to 29 percent in 1979. Meanwhile, domestic savings rose from 4 percent
of GDP in 1967 to 17 percent in 1979, increasing the share of investment
financed from domestic resources to about 60 percent. Over the 1967-79
period, export volume grew at an annual average rate of 4.5 percent, while
import volume grew at 3.5 percent.
5.        This impressive growth, despite limited natural and human
resources, was largely attributable to the Government's realistic economic
policy, which encouraged export-oriented agricultural and agro-industrial
growth. The overall policies of the Government provided an attractive



-2-
environment to foreign capital and enterprise. Public enterprises were
confined to a few key sectors. Relatively low tariffs and the sparing
use of quantitative restrictions on imports discouraged uneconomic import
substitution. A policy of wage restraint encouraged intensive practices
and the expansion of agricultural estate production, and helped to keep
Malawian goods competitive in international trade.
External Difficulties
6.        In recent years, however, the growth of the economy has been
checked by: (a) a rapid rise in import prices, particularly of fuel,
capital goods and intermediate goods, and swings in the export prices of
tobacco, tea and sugar. which caused Malawi's terms of trade to fall by 40
percent between 1977 and 1980; (b) ir. 1980 and 1981 droughts which caused a
decline in export volume arnd forced the country to import maize in large
quantities, and (c) the rising cost of external transport due to increasing
ocean freight charges, port congestion in Mozambique, and the disruption of
rail traffic from the traditional Mozambique ports of Beira and Nacala,
though which much of Malawi's external trade has traditionally passed.
7.        Malawi's deficit on current account rose sharply to an average of
20 percent of GDP in 1978-80, from an average of 8-9 percent in the
mid-1970s. Foreign exchange reserves declined significantly, because
capital inflows did not cover current account deficits. A sharp increase
in the proportion of non-concessional loans led to a rise in the debt
service ratio from 7 percent in 1977 to 26.3 percent in 1981. GDP growth
declined from 5.5 percent in 1979 to -1.1 percent in 1980, and to -5.2
percent in 1981.  Domestic savings and investment declined significantly
during this period. The Government's budgetary deficit rose from the usual
7-8 percent levels to nearly 14 percent of GDP.
8.        The crisis revealed important structural weaknesses in the
economy. First, Malawi is dependent on exports of tobacco, tea and sugar,
the prices of which commodities are subject to wide fluctuations. Second,
smallholder production growth has been slow, due largely to low producer
prices. Third, the finances and management of Malawi's parastatals
deteriorated. Fourth, the Government's fiscal position becnme weaker as
expenditure growth outpaced revenue, and it became difficult to meet the
recurrent costs of development projects financed by external aid. Fifth,
formal and informal price controls weakened incentives to production in the
manufacturing, service and agricultural sectors. Sixth, public
administration needed strengthening if it was to deal effectively with a
crisis on this scale.
Government's Response to Crisis
9.        To cope with these problems, the Government prepared a structural
adjustment program in consultation with the Bank and IMF covering the
period 1981/82 - 1985/86. This program was supported with a US$45 million
SAL I loan by the Bank and by a series of stand-by arrangements and a
three-year US$100 million EFF arrangement with the Fund in September 1983,
followed by an SDR 55 million SAL II credit which became effective in



- 3 -
January 1984. Both SAL I and SAL II, which were supplemented by a US$1
million technical assistance loan and a US$1.5 million technical assistance
credit respectively, have been fully disbursed.
10.       Malawi has carried out the structural adjustment program under
SAL I and SAL II with considerable success, and developments in the economy
since 1983 have been encouraging. After three years of stagnation, the
growth of per capita income has resumed. The deficit on current account
has been reduced largely because of increased world prices of tobacco and
tea, and an increase in tobacco export volume. The Government's budgetary
deficit as a percent of GDP has gradually decreased and the financial
position of key parastatals has shown improvement.  Details of recent
economic developments are discussed in the section dealing with the impact
of the Structural Adjustment Operations (paras. 24 to 26).
11.       Malawi still faces structural constraints on growth and the need
for further adjustment is apparent. The third structural adjustment
operation presented in this report, iike the first two, would encourage
diversification in production and exports, improve the performance of
productive sectors, rehabilitate key development institutions, and improve
resource mobilization and allocation in the public sector.
PART II. PROGRESS ON COVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. First Structural Adjustment Operation
12.       The weaknesses in the Malawian economy and administration,
revealed by the adverse economic climate of the late 1970s called for
action on several fronts to ensure that the growth of GDP per capita could
be sustained without unmanageable balance of payments current account
deficits. The first structural adjustment operation was designed to tackle
problems in the areas of the balance of payments, prices and incomes,
resource management, and institutional structure. The balance of payments
was to be improved by offering higher prices for smallholder export crops,
and taking measures to make the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC) more efficient. Prices and wages were to be
frequently reviewed and adjusted, public utility and transport tariffs
increased, and the exchange rate was to be reviewed periodically. In order
to improve resource management, steps were to be taken to increase the
effectiveness of the Department of Statutory Bodies in assisting public
enterprises in planning and financial management. Efforts were also made
to ensure an appropriate level and structure of interest rates, to increase
government revenue, to strengthen the control and monitoring of domestic
expenditures, and to improve the monitoring and management of public debt.
An Investment Coordination Committee was to be set up to oversee public
investments. Key ministries were to be strengthened and major public and
private sector conglomerates reorganized. The program also called for
studies in the areas of agriculture, energy, and parastatal management and
finance.
13.       Under the first structural adjustment operation which was
launched in June 1981, the Government adjusted agricultural prices,
increased some public utility tariffs, established an Investment



-4-
Coordination Committee, and allocated additional funds to the agriculture
sector. An energy assessment study was carried out. Steps were taken to
strengthen the management of Press (Holdings), a very large semi-private
enterprise, and some of its subsidiaries. However, in a number of areas
progress was slow. There were delays in starting the proposed studies.
Formal agreement between the Government and Press on the restructuring of
the latter was slow in coming. Agricultural price policy continued to
favor maize at the expense of export crops. Public enterprises continued
to display poor performance. The Government was slow in adjusting their
charges and tariffs.
14.       These delays, combined with continuing adverse developments in
the world economy, exacerbated the country's economic difficulties. The
balance of payments and the budgetary position continued to worsen. As a
result, IMF withheld the last two drawings under the two-year stand-by
arrangement, and the Bank delayed the release of the second tranche of SAL
I. Eventually, however, performance began to improve. After discussions
with the Bank, the Government agreed to modify its basis for setting
agricultural prices. The studies agreed in SAL I were started. The
1982/83 budget showed significant improvement. Sufficient funds were
allocated to key programs, particularly in agriculture. The Government
strengthened its capability to monitor external debt, and agreed to a debt
service target of 20 percent. These improvements in performance made it
possible for the Bank to release the second tranche of SAL I in April
1982, and for the Fund to enter into a new stand-by arrangement.
3. Second Structural Adjustment Operation
1. Second Phase of Structural Adjustment
15.       Preparations for the second phase of the structural adjustment
program began in June 1982, when Malawi was still confronting a depressed
economy and external transport difficulties were still disrupting the
country's external trade. The Government was having difficulty in making
progress in a number of politically sensitive areas, including the
restructuring of Press (Holdings) and in reaching internal consensus on the
decontrol of domestic prices. As a result, it took longer than expected to
formulate the second phase of the program. The SDR55 million SAL II credit
agreement was not signed until January, 1984.
16.       While SAL II was primarily intended to continue progress in the
field covered by SAL I, it also branched into other areas. To improve
performance in the agricultural sector, more attractive prices to
smallholders and improved procurement and distribution of fertilizer were
deemed to be essential. The Government committed itself to contribute to a
revolving fund established unier an IDA/IFAD- supported Smallholder
Fertilizer Project, and to procure and distribute fertilizer to
smallholders. It also agreed to eliminate the remaining subsidy for
fertilizer by 1985/86. The Government undertook a far-reaching
reorganization program for ADMARC. The Government also agreed to allocate
sufficient funds in the budget to meet the recurrent costs of agricultural



- 5 -
projects. In order to restore the viability of the estate sector and
improve its productivity, an extension management training and credit
program was to be designed. The Government decided to gradually remove
formal and informal price controls which were seriously hampering the
industry.
17.       The Government prepared a three-year public investment program
which was reviewed by the Bank. It also agreed to ensure that the budget
provided adequate funds for education and road maintenance, and
to maintain the proportion of GDP it collected as revenue at or above the
FY82/83 level. The Government also decided to take steps to improve the
collection of fees and charges. In institutional strengthening, the
Government was to implement the recommendations of the studies started
under SAL I with a view to improving the financial and operational
effectiveness of the parastatals. The Department of Statutory Bodies was
instructed to review the accounts of the parastatals annually, and where
needed, to recommend increases in tariffs and user charges. The Government
was to take measures to strengthen the staffing of the Economic Planning
Division of the Office of President and Cabinet (OPC) with a view to
improving its capability for policy formulation and implementation. The
process of forward budgeting was to be improved with the preparation of
three-year projections for revenue and expenditures. The Government was to
improve the debt monitoring system and formulate an external borrowing
strategy and plan.
18.       In September 1983, the IMF approved an extended arrangement (EFF)
for a three-year period in the amount of SDR 100 million, to help the
Government reduce inflation, the current account deficit, and the budget
deficit. The program called for the implementation of measures on both the
demand and the supply side.  The Malawian Kwacha was devalued by 12 percent
in September 1983 and tied to a basket of currencies in January 1984, with
a further devaluation of 3 percent.
2. lmplementation of the Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment
i ogramr
19.       For the 1984/85 crop season, in accordance with the objective of
shifting incentives in favor of exported commodities, price increases of 29
percent for tobacco, 17 percent for groundnuts, and 9.5 percent for cotton
were effected, while the price of maize was held constant. The smallholder
fertilizer subsidy, based on the cost of importing through the Mozambican
ports of Beira and Nacala, was removed. Nevertheless, the Government
continued to absorb the increased costs resulting from the extended
transportation routes. ADMARC's management was strengthened with the
recruitment of certain key staff. Capacity utilization and financial
control have improved under the new management. Some progress was made
towards the rationalization of ADMARC's assets through divestment and swap
arrangements with MDC and Press, and a long-term investment strategv and
program, based on strengthening of existing subsidiaries, was prepared.
Steps were taken for setting up a credit facility to provide medium- and
long-term credit to tobacco estates. However, no significant progress was
made in preparing a program for management training and extension because



the expected financial support from private institutions such as the
Tobacco Research Authority and Tobacco Control Commission was not
forthcoming.
20.       After a slow start, the number of commodities whose prices are
controlled was reduced from 56 in December 1983 to 9 in September 1985.
Even though the remaining items under control which include maize meal,
petroleum, and fertilizer, represent a large volume of transactions, the
steps taken towards price liberablization were impressive.
21.       The restructuring of Press (Holdings) proved to be a lengthy
process. Under SAL I and II, Press restructuring received primary
attention because the poor financial health of this nominally private,
large enterprise was adversely affecting the operations of a number of
important institutions including the two commercial banks. The Government
made some difficult decisions and launched a multi-faceted restructuring
operation, as a result of which the two commercial banks operating in
Malawi were also set on sound financial footing. The Press Restructuring
Agreement was signed in December 1983. Soon after that, the subsidiary
companies specified in the Agreement were formed and their boards were
named, and new corporate guidelines were adopted. Arrangements were made
to swap assets with the Malavi Development Corporation (MDC) and ADMARC. A
new Companies Act, wjich enabled the Press companies to improve their debt
to equity ratios by issuing convertible preferred stock, was ratified by
the Parliament. The efficiency and financial position of Press companies
have steadily improved under new management.
22.       Progress was slower than expected in strengthening the economic
planning staff of the Office of the President and Cabinet because of a
freeze on the size of the civil service pending the report of a Civil
Service Review Commission. There was progress, however, in the
implementation of the consultant reports on Malawi Railways, ADMARC and
MDC. MDC's progress under new management since May 1984 has been
impressive. The company now appears to be in a position to pursue its
primary objective of attracting investments to new projects, while turning
over its existing investments to produce cash for new projects. A number
of parastatals including Malawi Railways, the Electricity Supply Coimaission
(ESCOM), Air Malawi, Malawi Housing Corporation, and Blantyre and Lilongwe
Water Boards increased their tariffs to reduce their financial deficits.
Some progress has been made in setting up a system for monitoring external
debt.
23.       The Government prepared a realistic three-year public investment
program covering the 1984/85 - 1986/87 period. However, the budget
presented for 1984/85 deviated from this program. Allocations for
government buildings were too high, taking up about 40 percent of available
counterpart funds, while counterpart funding for donor supported
development projects was less than required. The projected disbursements
of external funds were also unrealistically high. However, after
discussions with the Bank and the Fund, the necessary adjustments were made
in the program. The Ministry of Finance has prepared realistic three-year
projections of revenue and expenditure. The 1984/85 budget included an



-7-
increase in the import levy and the surtax rate, and the tripling of rent
on leasehold land, which increased revenue as a proportion of GDP above the
FY82/83 level, as the Government had targeted. Allocations to key
developmental departments in the 1984/85 budget were somewhat tight but
adequate. The Ministry of Finance prepared a satisfactory external
borrowing plan.
C.  Impact of the Structural hijustueut Operations
24.       The four-year period since the Government initiated its
structural adjustment program is not long enough for the full effects to
have become apparent. Moreover, it is difficult to separate the impact of
.he program from that of other factors bearing on development.
Nevertheless, it is obvious that the program has been greatly beneficial to
the economy. The annual rate of growth of GDP has been impressive since
1982. Against the target of 3.4 percent annual GDP growth, in real terms
GDP grew at rates of 2.5 percent, 4.4 percent and 6.8 percent, in 1982,
1983 and 1984, respectively. Preliminary projections are for a 3.3 percent
GDP growth in 1985. There have been large increases in agricultural
production which can be directly attributed to improved price incentives
and other Government policies. Maize production increased threefold after
a 67 percent price increase in 1981. Cotton production grew by 137 percent
in 1984, after a price increase of 33 percent in 1983. Smallholder tobacco
production rose by 107 percent in 1984. The better supply and distribution
of smallholder fertilizer has also contributed to these increases of
output.
25.       The deficit on the balance of payments current account remained
high until 1984, when it declined to only 2.9 percent of GDP compared with
12.3 percent in 1983. Thus, performance was considerably better than the
EFF program target of 8.8 percent. After declining in both 1982 and 1983,
the US dollar value of exports increased by 34 percent in 1984, partly
because of higher tobacco and tea prices. The volume of exports increased
by about 16 percent in the three-year period after 1981, very close to the
5.5 percent annual growth envisaged in the structural adjustment program.
Meanwhile, exports of smallholder products rose from 28.4 percent of total
exports in 1981-19B3 to 35.4 percent in 1984. The volume of oil imports
has declined by about one third since 1980, in part because of the
increased blending of ethanol with regular petrol. However, lower prices
for tea and tobacco as well as higher external debt service are exrt-ted to
increase the deficit on current account in 1985. The Government's
budgetary deficit which was 15.9 percent of GDP in 1981, fell to 8.3
percent by 1984. The Government has improved its control of budgetary
expenditures and is trying to improve the process of budgetary
allocation. However, the deficit needs to be further reduced to ease
pressure on the balance of payments.
26.       The economic progress made in the past four years is all the more
impressive in view of the fact that the external transport crisis has, if
anything, worsened. The Government has handled this crisis well by
establishing coordination mechanisms, by exploring alternate routes, and by
constructing new routes and bridges with some donor support. The



relaxation of price controls has helped to improve the business climate.
The rehabilitation of several key organizations including Press and MDC,
once a drag on the economy, has improved their management and finances to a
point where they can once again make a contribution to growth.
PART III. THIRD PHASE OF THE GOVERIENT'S STRIUCTURAL
ADJUlSTMEN POGRAMl
A. Economic Background
27.       The third phase of the structural adjustment program will.
consolidate and expand the gains made during the first two phases, attack
some weaknesses that have become evident, and help to sustain the growth of
per capita income. Higher capital formation is needed to sustain growth of
agriculture and industry. Increased flow of external resources is
necessary to supplement domestic savings. In view of relatively
high-levels of external debt service, it is desirable that the concessional
element of external aid should increase. Detailed tables for the economic
framework of SAL III are given in Annexes I, V and VI.
28.       The structural adjustment program should make possible an average
3.7 percent annual GDP arowth in real terms during the 1985-90 period.
This implies a relatively small increase of per capita income. Agriculture
should grow at about 3.5 percent per annum. Industry is expected to grow
at a little more than 4 percent annually, compared with less than 1 percent
annually during the previous five years. The remaining sectors should grow
at a rate of slightly under 4 percent per annum. To achieve these growth
rates, fixed capital formation needs to increase from around 13 percent of
GDP in 1984 to about 15.5 percent in 1990. However, even at these
increased rates, it will be essential to employ capital more efficiently
than in the recent past. Greater care will have to be exercised in the
design of the public sector investment program. The maintenance and
utilization of existing capital must also be improved. To finance
increased investme-,t without excessive reliance on external savings,
domestic savings will have to rise to 15 percent of GDP from 14.1 percent
in 1979-84. This, in turn, will require turning the public sector into a
net saver rather than a net dissaver. In order to achieve this, the
budgetary deficit, which stood at 15.9 percent of GDP in 1981, and fell to
about 8.3 percent in 1984/85, must be reduced still further. More careful
project selection and scrutiny of recurrent expenditure will be needed to
ensure fuller utilization of existing capacity and adequate funding of
development projects.
29.       In the recent past, balance of payment problems were eased
by reducing imports, but healthy growth will call for a steady increase in
imports. External debt service will also add to balance of payments
difficulties. The diversification and a growth of exports will therefore
be vital to the success of the structural adjustment program. With
appropriate exchange rate and price policies, exports should grow at 4.9
percent in real terms annually over the 1986-90 period despite projected



-9-
lower exports in 1985 and 1986. The value of total exports are projected
to rise to US$466.8 million in 1990 from USS238.8 million in 1985. Tobacco
exports could grow at 2.1 percent annually, and tea exports at about 3
percent. Cotton and groundnut exports are also expected to increase.
Further increases in the production of new crops for export and import
substitution such as wheat, sunflower and other oil seeds, guar beaus, and
macadamia and cashew nuts, should help to improve the trade account. Crop
diversification must be supported by improved research, a strengthening of
the extension services and an expansion of credit. Manufactured exports
are expected to grow at 5.1 percent annually despite transportation
difficulties and slow growth in neighboring countries. The export
promotion policies contemplated under the structural adjustment program
should help to achieve both agricultural and industrial export targets.
30.       Since 1979 imports have declined by 50 percent in volume. To
sustain the projected annual GDP growth rate of 3.7 percent, imports need
to expand by a minimum of 3.1 percent dur..ng the period 1986-90. This
corresponds to a rise in imports (fob) from US$185.0 million in 1985 to
US$299.9 million in 1990. According to these figures the trade balance
will improve gradually throughout the period. Meanwhile, the deficit on
the service account is expected to go up by nearly 60 percent from US$175
million in 1984 to US$285 million in 1990, mainly because of high
transportation costs and increased interest charges on foreign borrowing.
To limit these costs, the Government must continue to coordinate external
transport and minimize non-concessional borrowing. According to these
projections, the balance of payments current account deficit will be about
USS110-120 million annually throughout the period.
31.       Success in structural adjustment calls for a reversal of the
decline in external resource transfers that began in 1981. A medimr- and
long-term capital net inflow of about USS115 million annually is projected
during the period 1985-90, on the basis of current and expected loan and
grant commitments. The relatively high debt-service ratio of about 35
percent over the next few years will permit only limited amounts of
non-concessional borrowing. After taking into account all projected flows
of capital, there will remain a cumulative gap of about US$115 million over
1985-90. The Consultative Group for Malawi, which will be organized in
January 1986, will seek to bridge this gap.
B. Incentives and Productive Efficiency
1. Sectoral Policies
32.       Agriculture.  The Government will continue to rely on smallholder
price incentives to increase and diversify production, encourage exports
and efficient import substitution, and maintain an adequate supply of
food. In determining the crop prices the Ministry of Agriculture is
experimenting with a model developed with Bank assistance which traces the
implications of different pricing decisions on production, incomes, balance
of payments, and public finances. The Rank will continue to be consulted
on smallholder crop prices.



- 10 -
33.       Under a project jointly financed by IFAD and IDA, procurement and
distribution of smallholder fertilizer for the 1984/85 season proceeded
smoothly. Procurement arrangements for the 1985/86 season were also made
well in advance. The Government continues to subsidize suallholder
fertilizer to partially offset the additional cost due to the extended
import routes. Despite a 21 percent price increase for the 1985/86 crop
year, the subsidy remains at about 22 percent, cr around MK 10 million. The
Government will also encourage the use of high-analysis fertilizer through
research, training and aemonstration. Under the SAL III program, the
Government will consult the Bank before announcing 1986/87 smallholder
fertilizer prices.
34.       Because the early reopening of the Mozambican routes is highly
unlikely, the reliance on extended southern routes will continue. The
Government, therefore, plans to remove the remaining subsidy on fertilizer
to eliminate the burden on the budget as well as to encourage its more
economic use. However, to avoid the potential advefse impact on production
and incomes of a sudden fertilizer price increase, the Government will
spread the removal required of subsidy reductions over a four-year period
ending with the 1989/90 crop season.
35.       The estate sector expanded agricultural production rapidly up
until the late 1970s when they employed 50 percent of wage labor. Three
estate crops, tobacco, tea and sugar, contributed over 80 percent of total
exports. However, in the latter 1970s, falling prices and sharply rising
costs depressed the estate sector. A large number of them continue to
suffer from managerial and financial weaknesses. Because of the export
potential of the estate sector, the program includes measures to encourage
diversification of their production and to improve their financial and
technical management.
36.       The lack of access of estates to finance, particularly for
medium- and long-term financing, is a major impediment to productivity
improvement. Under SAL II, the Government had considered the establishment
of an Agricultural Development Bank (AGRIBANK). However, a consultant's
study indicated that AGRIBANK would not be a viable undertaking at this
time, and the establishment of such a Bank has been postponed. Instead,
the Government has worked out a pilot scheme to provide estates with
long-term credit through the two commercial banks and the Industrial and
Development Bank (INDEBANK). The credit scheme will be supported by the
Bank under the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, which is being
submitted to the Executive Directors at abonTt the same time as this
operation.
37.       If an estate credit scheme is to bear fruit it must be combined
with improvements in estate management and extension services. A scheme
for this purpose will be set up under SAL III at first on the tobacco
estates but eventually on all estates. The sum of MK 700,000, raised from
fines paid by the tobacco industry for overproduction, has been earmarked
for the new scheme for which ODA of the United Kingdom is providing
technical and financial assistance. The scheme is expected to be
essentially self-financing in the long run from users.



- 11 -
38.       Industry.  Under SAL III the Government will complete the price
liberalization program begun under SAL II. By the end of 1985, only a few
strategic items will be subject to price control. Under SAL III, the
Government will broaden the focus of industrial sector policies beyond
price liberalization and will take further steps to improve the overall
policy environment. The Industrial Development Act of 1964 introduced a
system of industrial licensing administered by the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism and empowers the Ministry to grant "exclusive
protection- to new industries for five years. Currently, the licensing
system based on the 1964 Act is applied liberally and no "exclusive
protection' has been granted for several years. Although applications are
gazetted, as required by the Act, applications are not rejected on the
grounds that other firms are operating in the same field. Nevertheless,
the Act creates some uncertainty on the part of prospective investors.
Particularly after extensive decontrols of industrial prices, it is
essential that competition among the potential investors be actively
encouraged by the Government, and the industrial licensing system should
not give the impression that it can be used as an instrument of
protection. Under SAL III, the Government intends to review the Industrial
Development Act with a view to ensuring that the Act does not provide a
basis for discriminatory practices.
39.       In the early 1980s a stringent foreign exchange situation led at
times to refusals to allocate foreign exchange to importers of goods that
were also produced domestically.  To encourage efficiency in domestic
industry and to achieve the objectives of the price liberalization program,
foreign exchange should be available for the importation of competing
products. In Malawi, because of the small market, some industries consist
of only a few firms. With price decontrols, unless these firms are
subjected to competition from abroad, they may be tempted to raise their
prices unjustifiably. The Government will accordingly facilitate the
importation of competing products to prevent the potential exploitation of
the consumer and to encourage overall efficiency.
40.       Transportation.  External transport problems continue to be a
serious drag on the economy. The cost of these problems to the economy was
estimated at about US$50 million, or 20 percent cf the value of exports, in
1983. The actual cost must be higher, since this figure does not take into
account the need to carry larger inventories, the loss of confidence on the
part of importers from Malawi, and reluctance to invest in new ventures.
Prospects for the reopening of the Mozambican routes in the near future are
not encouraging and in all likelihood Malawi will continue to pay a very
high price for external transport. To reduce the impact of the transport
crisis on the economy, the Government set up an emergency task force which
included representatives of the private sector. A Malawi International
Transport Company (MITCO) was formed to facilitate freight bookings and to
coordinate front and back haul trips. MITCO has been successful in dealing
with these extremely complex transport problems. Malawi has already made
the necessary adjustments in its shipping patterns and cannot look forward
to any significant decline in transport costs through better routing. At
the same time, the new Blantyre-Dar es Salaam corridor was opened in 1984
and a Northern Corridor Transportation Project, with lake and rail
components, is being appraised by the Bank.



- 12 -
2. Exchange Rate Policy
41.       The issue of foreign exchange allocation is closely related to
the exchange rate policy of the Government. Ideally, an active exchange
rate management policy removes the need for a foreign exchange allocation
system, or at least minimizes it. Since Malawi tied its currency in 1984
to a basket of the currencies of its major trading partners, the Reserve
Bank frequently adjusted the rate. Nonetheless the Kwacha appreciated in
real effective terms on the trade-weighted basis, particularly in the
latter half of 1984 and in March 1985, and the Government devalued the
Kwacha by 15 percent. Under SAL III, the Government is committed to
maintaining an active exchange rate policy which, coupled with appropriate
fiscal and monetary policies, should virtually eliminate the need for an
allocation system. Developments in the area of exchange rate management
will be closely monitored in coordination with the Fund.
3. Promotion of Exports
42.       While an active exchange rate management policy will help to keep
Malawian products competitive in international markets, under SAL III, the
Government will also take a number of steps to promote exports. Although
the Malawi Export Promotion Council (MEPC), set up in 1971, was intended to
provide promotional services for exporters, its staff and resources are too
Limited for it to play a very effective role. The Government has already
agreed with UNDP on a US$750,000 three-year project for trade promotion and
export diversification. The project will strengthen the MEPC staff in the
areas of export promotion policy, product and market development, and trade
information services. A center to train exporters and government officials
in export promotion will be established.
43.       The Government will design and adopt an export promotion policy
package under SAL III. Consultancy services will be available under the
UNDP project. While the existing credit system adequately serves the needs
of large scale exporters, small and medium scale exporters can only obtain
credit if they can put up satisfactory collateral. To meet their needs and
facilitate the credit demands of small and medium size exporters and to
encourage the export of non-traditional products, the Government is to set
up an export credit facility to provide pre- and post-shipment financing,
export credit guarantee, and export credit insurance. A study financed by
the Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF) will be carried out under
the supervision of the International Trade Centre of UNDP to assess needs
under these headings and to recommend the requisite institutional
arrangements which will be coordinated by the Reserve Bank of Malawi.
4. Changes in the Tax System
44.       Tax revenues rose from 11 percent of GDP in 1973/74 to about 18
percent in 1983/84. The 1985/86 budget included three new measures to
increase tax revenues: a 10 percent levy on the value of exports of tea
and tobacco, a 35 percent increase in land rent, and acceleration of the
payment of corporate taxes. Malawi's accomplishment in this respect is
impressive in comparison with other Sub-Saharan African countries.



- 13 -
However, in recent years there ha- been an excessive reliance on increase
in tax rates for quick revenue.
45.       Most of the rise in revenue over the last decade has come from
increases in taxes on imports, in particular intermediate goods and fuel
products, and to a lesser extent from increases in corporate taxation. The
higher rates of direct taxation act as disincentives to saving and
investment, while the taxation of intermediate inputs, whether domestically
produced or imported, distort production and weaken incentives to export
promotion and efficient import substitution. In addition, the ad hoc
introduction of many taxes has led to an increasingly complex tax structure
resulting in delays and inefficiencies in collection.
46.       The Government has therefore commissioned a study of the tax
system with a view to incorporating the necessary reforms. The
Government's objective is to ensure that revenues are generated with
minimum distortions of relative prices. This calls for: (a) broadening of
the tax base and reduction of rates, (b) a shift of taxation from external
trade to domestic transactions, (c) a shift of taxation from production to
consumption, and (d) simplification of the tax structure and streamlining
of tax administration. Such a restructuring is expected to reduce the need
for new and additional tax measures each year.
47.       The study will investigate the possibility of increasing taxes on
domestic manufactures which are considerably lower than those on competing
imports, and eliminating taxes on intermediate inputs. This removal of
protective elements in taxation will complement the measures being taken
under the structural adjustment program to decontrol prices and maintain a
liberal foreign exchange allocation system. The Government has asked the
Bank to provide technical support for the comprehensive tax study and Bank
missions visited Halawi in March and June 1985. The Government has engaged
three consultants under SPPF to carry out the study, which should be
completed by December 1985.  The Bank will work closely with the Government
in the design of the revisions to be made in the tax system, which will be
initiated with the 1986/87 budget.
C. Public Sector Management
48.       Malawi has prudently avoided building up a large central
bureaucracy. It also has a relatively well trained and dedicated civil
service. The Government has maintained a pragmatic approach to utilizing
expatriate services and delegating responsibility to agencies and
professional organizations outside the Central Government. Until the late
1970s, the administrative machinery served the needs of the country well.
However, recent adverse developments have revealed some administrative
weaknesses. Many of these weaknesses can be traced to inadequate
personnel policies and the lack of a clear statement of development
objectives and strategies. A Civil Service Review Commission was appointed
to review the situation, and its report, submitted in July 1985, contains
recommendations on personnel administration, training, financial and
resource management, and salary structure. A committee consisting of
senior government officials is now reviewing the report with a view to
preparing a program of action.



- 14 -
49.       Policy and planning staff need to be strengthened both in OPC and
in the ministries. This could not be done under SAL II mainly because of a
freeze on hiring pending completion of the Civil Service Review
Commission's report. Under SAL III, the Government, with the help of
consultants, will strengthen and reorganize the economic staff of OPC. The
'Government has recently merged the Economic Planning and Development
Division of OPC into one unit and upgraded the ranking of the chief
officer. The economic analysis staff of the Ministry of Finance will also
be strengthened.
50.       Better planning of public expenditure is an integral part of the
structural adjustment program. The EFF program with IMF calls for a
reduction of the budget deficit by cutting both development and recurrent
expenditures in real terms. It is therefore all the more important for the
Government to review both development and recurrent expenditures, and
ensure that important projects and programs do not go unfunded.
51.       The present system of preparing and presenting the budget
emphasizes control and accountability, rather than performance and output.
In view of the larger role now played by social and economic programs, the
Covernment has decided to present the budget in a form which will make it
possible to identify and analyze the cost of individual programs. A Bank
consultant has visited Malawi and demonstrated in two ministries how this
might be done. While the old system will continue to be in effect with the
1986/87 budget, the ministries are going to prepare supplementary tables
based on this new approach. Once the potential difficulties due to
inexperience with the system in the early stages are ironed out, the new
system of budgetiug will gradually be installed.
52.       Malawi's current economic difficulties give special importance to
the preparation of a three-year public investment program as part of
structural adjustment program. Development projects have to be carefully
screened so that scarce resources - both external and domestic - are
properly utilized. The recurrent costs of these projects have to be
assessed carefully. The Government prepares three-year projections for all
development expenditures to be financed through the central budget,
including some parastatal investments, for which funds are channelled
through the budget. Excluded are projects financed by the parastatals from
their own funds, which are not significant at present.
53.       The Bank has reviewed the three-year public investment program
for the period 1985/86-1987/88, and found its size and project content
realistic. This is a three-year rolling program which needs to be updated
annually by dropping the first year and adding another year. The Bank will
review the public investment program for 1986/87-1988/89 before releasing
the second tranche of SAL III.
54.       To provide a basis for planning revenue and expenditure beyond
the current fiscal year, the Ministry of Finance prepared three-year
projections under SAL II. The methodology used in these preparations was
basically sound and the underlying assumptions were realistic. It is
intended that such projections should be regularly prepared in future, and



- 15 -
under SAL III, the Ministry of Finance will prepare three-year projections
for revenue and expenditure for 1986/87-1988/89. With the help of the
Bank, a debt unit was established in the Ministry of Finance under SAL II.
This will enable the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with OPC and the
Reserve Bank, to prepare an improved version of the external borrowing
plan.
55.       Parastatal Finances.   Despite some improvement in the management
and finances of major parastatals, some continue to experience financial
difficulties. Under SAL III, the Government aims at avoiding operational
deficits in nine major commercially oriented parastatals while improving
their efficiency. To this end, the debt equity structure of individual
parastatals are being examined with a view to carrying out the necessary
restructuring. To improve their operational efficiency, the Government
intends to prepare guidelines on cost of capital from the Government,
subject parastatals' project proposals to rigorous appraisal, take measures
to increase revenue and, if necessary, scale down operations.
56.       The Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB) is responsible for
monitoring the finances and administration of parastatals, but it must
strengthen its staff and improve its procedures if it is to perform this
task effectively. Under SAL III, the Government will recruit new staff to
DSB and will develop more effective monitoring systems. The Government is
now working on the details of a time-bound plan to improve the parastatals'
performance and DSB's objectives, and has asked for Bank assistance. This
plan will iWe reviewed by the Bank in June 1986.
57.       ADMARC, MDC, and Press Operations.   Under the first two SAL
programs, the Government took steps to overcome the problems faced by a
number of parastatal and semi-private organizations. In particular,
ADMARC, MDC. and Press (Holdings) have been reorganized, the results being
more encouraging in the cases of MDC and Press than in those of ADMARC.
These organizations need to continue to further strengthen their finances
and management, and to increase the efficiency of their operations.
58.       ADMARC faces a serious liquidity problem due to sharp falls in
the export price of tobacco and, despite larger domestic production in
1985, the volume of maize exports. ADMARC has exceeded its overdraft
limits with the commercial banks, and has borrowed additional sums from the
Government and the Reserve Bank. This liquidity problem not only impairs
its ability to market smallholder crops, but also has a serious impact on
the budget and domestic credit. It is therefore essential that the
Government take measures to restore ADMARC's financial health. Some of
ADMARC's problems have their roots in government policy. While the
Government attaches primary importance to maintaining sufficient maize
stocks, there has been no study of stock requirements or of the cost of
maintaining maize stocks compared with other options. ADMARC now bears the
high cost of financing these non-commercial stocks. The Government will
re-examine its food security policy, with special reference to the level of
maize stocks necessary to meet emergencies. The cost of carrying these
stocks will he borne by the Government.



- 16 -
59.       ADMARC buys smallholder crops at prices set by the Government and
announced before the cropping season. In turn, it sells part of this maize
in the domestic market at prices set by the Government. The level at which
these prices are set has an obvious bearing on ADMARC's finances. ADMARC
also contributes to the fund established for the procurement and
distribution of fertilizer. Under SAL III the Government will take into
account ADMARC's financial health in setting snallholder and consumer
prices, including maize. In principle, ADMARC will ensure that the overall
crop account will give a surplus, and the deficit in any given account is
minimized.
60.       The Government is reviewing the role of private traders in
agricultural markets. ADMARC has a monopoly of the purchase of smallholder
dark-fired tobacco and cotton, and dominates the markets for other
smallholder crops, especially maize. The Government is expected to take
measures to encourage private traders to participate more actively in
agricultural markets.
61.       The diversified nature of ADMARC's activities imposes a heavy
burden on its management. ADMARC's organization will be restructured with
a view to allowing its management to concentrate on marketing. ADMARC'S
asset rationalization will be accelerated according to a program which will
be finalized by March 1986, and immediate steps will be taken for the
disposal of certain assets.
62.       The Government has appointed a task force representing ADMARC,
the Reserve Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture, OPC, and the Ministry of
Finance, to prepare an action plan for dealing with ADMARC's operational
and financial problems. A Bank mission recently visited Malawi to assist
the Government in the preparation of such a plan and explore the need for
Bank support. The principles adopted by the comnittee on ADMARC's
restructuring was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The action
plan on ADMARC's restructuring will be finalized in the next two to three
months.
63.       MDC has made good progress toward restoring its financial
viability and rationalizing its assets. In 1984, MDC improved its finances
significantly, by selling assets worth 4.8 million, converting about MK 13
million in debt due to Government to equity, and arranging to repay its
remaining debt. MDC has prepared a sound five-year plan and a satisfactory
investment policy, and has strengthened its projects staff. The Government
will continue to monitor MDC's performance and the corporation will be
encouraged to play a more active developmental role, particularly in
agro-industry.
64.       Press (Holdings) has made significant progress under the
restructuring program developed under SAL I and II and has re-established
its financial viability. A new management team is performing effectively.
For the year ending September 30, 1984, Press made a small after-tax profit
and paid about MK 1.5 million out of profits to the Government and ADMARC
under its income note obligations. Press is expected to make a
considerably larger profit in 1985. However, progress in selling assets in



- 17 -
order to repay the Government has been less satisfactory. The Government
will monitor the corporation's progress in financial reconstruction, and
will keep the Bank informed.
D. Other Issues
1.  Socio-Economic Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
65.       Hany elements of the structural adjustment program have a bearing
on employment, income distribution, and poverty. On balance, it can safely
be said that the program has benefitted the poorer people. Higher prices
have encouraged the production of smallholder crops, while the domestic
terms of trade have shifted in favor of the agricultural sector, so that
about 75 percent of the rural population are receiving higher incomes.
There is likely to have been an accompanying increase in employment. SAL
III, by promoting better utilization of the agricultural estates and
providing credit, management training and extension services, should
further increase production and the demand for labor. Although phasing out
of the remaining fertilizer subsidy over a four-year period would impose
some burden on smallholders, production is not expected to be significantly
affected.
66.       Hitherto, mostly the urban population appears to have borne the
brunt of the adjustments. The lifting of price controls has raised the
prices of a number of commodities. Real wages have declined in the urban
areas, as a result of the restraints on wage and salary increases.
However, in the longer run, as the decontrol of prices encourages new
investment and higher capacity use, pressures on prices should lessen and
urban employment should increase. Under SAL III, the Government will
continue with the policy of permitting the importation of goods which are
also produced domestically, to keep prices down. It should be added that
while price decontrols have affected the real purchasing power of the
consumers, higher consumer prices should be set against the benefits of
more reliable availability of supplies.
67.       Under the structural adjustment program, the restructuring and
improvement of the finances of the main developmental institutions and
parastatals helped to expand industrial output and employment. The SALs
provided resources for imports and helped to maintain the real levels of
Government spending. In the absence of SAL resources, more severe foreign
exchange shortages would have resulted in sharply reduced imports of
machinery and equipment, and internmediate products which in turn world have
curtailed production and employment. The SAL resources also helped to
avoid drastic cuts in Government spending at the expense of the poor.
2. Government-Fund-Bank Relations
68.       The IMF followed the 1982/83 stand-by with a three-year SDR 100
million extended arrangement (EFF) for Malawi in September 1983. Purchases
were to be made quarterly, subject to satisfactory performance. During the
first year four purchases were made as scheduled. Two more purchases were
made during the second year. Further purchases were contingent upon a



- 18 -
mid-year review scheduled for December 1984, but the review was not
completed in view of emerging financial difficulties. The EFF program was
reinstated in May 1985 on the basis of a significant improvement in the
financial position of the public sector. However, because interruption in
purchases, the size of the program was reduced to SDR 81 million and the
purchases were rephased.
69.       Following a mission in September 1985, the Fund informed the
Government that projected 1985/86 exports would be much lower and the
overall balance of payments deficit substantially larger than expected, and
that the program's domestic financial objectives, including reduction of
the budget deficit and banking system financing of ADMARC, were not likely
to be attained, unless measures were taken to improve ADMARC's finances.
Steps are being taken by the Government to deal with this problem as
discussed in paras. 57-61.
70.       The staff of the Bank have maintained close contact with the Fund
staff working on Malawi. They have shared information and views,
particularly on matters related to the SAL and EFF programs, and have
informed each other on developments in these areas. The staff of the Bank
and the Fund have also worked closely on issues such as the timing of the
adjustment process, the levels of projected external resource transfers,
and the level of imports required to support the Government's adjustment
program, with a view to resolving any differences in approach.
E. Su-mary of Structural Adjustment Actions
71.       The Government's structural adjustment program strategy is
outlined in its Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) and the entire
program is summarized in the tabulation which follows.



'R~~~~~~ !!ali5iiiffi ,Bt5sai
S  g   ijtt-                               iii



V  ri  Pr  411  
PM~ ~~~~-
11i                           1111111               hUhl  *:i
ii   ~~ii'              {,id~  RItiIIi,    Rh 



|l   1                         11111             1         I!I             ,ik    I
I           i ?t                                    r 1     |ii,  iI           



- 22 -
PART IV. THE PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL -ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
History Of The Proposed Credit
72.       The structural adjustments made in Malawi since 1981 under SAL I
and II have contributed significantly to improved economic performance and
have provided the basis for dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
a broad range of economic issues. The adjustments to be undertaken under
SAL III are built on reforms and policies already initiated in such fields
as smallholder producer pricing (para. 16), the phasing out of fertilizer
subsidies (para. 19), the preparation of a public investment program
(para. 52); the preparation of three-year revenue and expenditure
projection, and an improved version of the external borrowing plan (para.
54); the decontrol of prices (para. 38); the pursuit of an active exchange
rate policy (para. 41); and the rehabilitation of the key statutory bodies
(paras. 55-64).
73.       The difficult economic environment has exposed weaknesseses in
policy and budget formulation and in organizational effectiveness.
Measures to remedy these weaknesses are essential to sustained
development. In particular, attention will be paid to the establishment of
an estate management training and extension service (para. 37); providing
term credit for estates (para. 36); export promotion and export credit
(paras. 42 and 43); restructuring of the tax system (paras. 44 to 47);
improved incentives and personnel administration for the civil service
(para. 48); improved budgeting, policy formulation, planning and public
investment programming (paras. 50 to 54).
74.       On May 3, 1985, the Bank agreed to provide Malawi with US$400,000
under a Special Project Preparation Facility to finance studies in the key
areas of (a) budgeting, (b) the setting up of an export financing agency;
and (c) reform of the tax system. These studies would provide the
technical basis for action under the proposed structural adjustment
program.
75.       The proposed operation was appraised in May 1985.  Negotiations
took place in Washington on November 6-13, 1985. The Malawian delegation
was led by Mr. J.C. Malewezi, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the operation
and the special conditions of the proposed credits.
Policy Actions
76.       The policy actions to be carried out by the Government are
described in its Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV).  The tabulation
at the end of Part III summarizes the actions taken under SALs I and II as
well as the action to be undertaken under SAL III credit. Before entering
into negotiations the Government and IDA reached agreement on a three-year
public investment program and on smallholder crop prices for 1985/86. The
conditions of release of the second tranche of the credit are as follows:
(a) agreement on smallholder prices for 1986/87, including a specific
target for the removal of the fertilizer subsidy; (b) completion of the



- 23-
price decontrol program; (c) agreement on the three-year public investment
program for the period 1986/87-1988/89; (d) satisfactory progress in
formulating an export promotion policy and setting up a credit agency; and
(e) the finalization of an action plan for the rationalization of ADMARC's
assets and taking measures for the disposal of identified assets.
Co-financing Arrangements
77.       A total of US$114.0 million would be provided to support the
Government's structural adjustment program, including an IDA credit
equivalent to USs30.0 million, an African Facility Credit equivalent to
US$40.0 million, and Special Joint Financing equivalent to approximately
US$29.0 million. The balance would consist of US$15.0 million in bilateral
aid provided by USAID.
78.       Special Joint Financing is to be provided by KfI, on behalf of
the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and by OECF, on behalf
of the Japanese Government. KfW will commit DM20 million (approximately
US$6.4 million) to SAL III to finance a flexible list of agricultural
exports (fertilizers, pesticides, veterinary drugs, etc.). Following
appraisal in November 1985, it is expected that the Government of Malawi
and the KfW will sign a separate Development Grant Agreement in early
1986. OECF will lend Y 5.3 billion (approximately USS22.6 million) to the
Government of Malawi under a separate loan agreement which is expected to
be signed in January and become effective in February 1986.
79.       USAID would provide parallel co-financing.  USAID, under its
recently approved Economic Policy Reform Program, is providing a total of
US$15 million as follows: (a) a program grant of US$12 million to be
disbursed in three annual tranches subject to Government's reducing
fertilizer subsidies and the use of high analysis fertilizer and (b) a
technical assistance component of US$3 million to be used to increase the
efficiency of agricultural marketing, arid to help the Government planning,
budgeting and project implementation. In addition, ODA is expected to
provide around US$3.5 million for an extension service and a management
training program for the estate sub-sector. The funds would be used to
finance technical assistance, vehicles and equipment. They would come from
the current bilateral program. ODA is expected to appraise the scheme in
December, with implementation likely to commence in the first half of 1986.
Disbursement Arrangements
80.       IDA (US$30 million), African Facility (US$40 million) and Special
Joint Financing Credits (US$29 million). A total of US$99 million from
these sources would be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche would
amount to US$50 million equivalent, of which US$20 million (US$5 million
from the African Facility and USS15 million from IDA) would be available
for retroactive financing from appraisal (May 23, 1985). The first tranche
of USS50 million equivalent would consist of: (a) US$1 million for
technical assistance from IDA, US$.4 million of which would be used to
reimburse the SPPF; (b) a further US$19 million from IDA; (c) US$20 million
from the African Facility; and (d) US$10 million from Special Joint



- 24 -
Financing. The second tranche would be available for disbursement after a
review of performance in June 1986, subject to satisfactory implementation
of the overall program and the specific conditions outlined in para. 76.
The disbursement of funds for technical assistance would not be subject to
these conditions.
81.       The proposed credit would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs of eligible imports. The Reserve Bank would be responsible
for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications, which would
be consolidated in amounts of at least US$50,000. The Reserve Bank would
also process the foreign exchange applications for imports. The Reserve
Bank is adequately staffed to undertake these responsibilities which it has
discharged effectively in past SAL operations. Public and private
importers alike will receive adequate assistance in preparing documents.
82.       Except for retroactive expenditures, reimbursement would be made
for eligible imports paid for after the signing of the nroposed credit. No
reimbursement would be made for imports financed from other sources.
Disbursements should be completed by September 30, 1987.
83.       To expedite disbursements, the Reserve Bank would open two
Special Accounts (Revolving Funds) - one for the IDA credit and one for
African Facility and Special Joint Financing. The initial deposit would be
US$5 million from IDA and US$5 million from the African Facility which
represents approximately 15Z of the total amounts to be disbursed from
these two sources.
84.       USAID.  The first of the US$4 million three annual tranches
conditioned on reduction of the fertilizer subsidy was released following
the announcement of a satisfactory price for 1985/86 tranches. US$3
million for technical assistance would be disbursed for the expenditures
i"dicated in para. 79.
Procurement Arrangements
85.       IDA.  Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank member
countries, Switzerland and Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports
would be eligible for financing. Contracts for the procurement of goods by
the private sector less than US$2 million equivalent would follow normal
commercial practice. Government contracts equivalent to less than US$2
million would follow Malawi Government practice, which is acceptable to
IDA.  All purchases, both public and private under contracts amounting to
more than US$2 million would be procured through international competitive
bidding. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased at prices
quoted in organized international markets. Whatever procurement methods
are used, not more than US$20 million of the IDA credit or US$20 million of
the Special Facility credit would be used to finance imports in any single
trade group or subgroup. Altogether, it is expected that around
USS25 million would be spent on petroleum and food which would be purchased
at international prIces. Expenditures for goods covered by invoices of
less than US$5,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing.



- 25 -
86.       African Facility and Special Joint Financing Credits.
Expenditures covered by these credits would be confined to goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of any Part II member of
IDA, Part I members of IDA who have contributed to the African Facility and
any country which enters into Special Joint Financing arrangements with
IDA.
Allocation of Structural Adjustment Financing
87.       All of the US$114.0 million would be used to help finance general
imports other than luxuries and armaments. It is estimated that eligible
imports in 1986 will total about USS320 million equivalent. The proposed
financing would finance about 36 percent of this amount, thus permitting
rapid disbursement.
Benefits
88.       The principal benefit of the Structural Adjustment Program has
been to correct the structural weaknesses which have retarded economic
growth. The balance of payments situation has improved; more attractive
prices have restored incentives and flexibility to agriculture and
industry; a number of development institutions have been rehabilitated;
resource allocation in the public sector has improved; and SAL-related
technical assistance projects have helped to improve public resource
management and rebuild public institutions. The proposed Third Structural
Adjustment credit would build on and consolidate the progress achieved thus
far.
Risks
89.       There are three risks which may affect the success of the
program:
a)   The high cost of transport by circuitous routes has already
adversely affected Malawi's exports of tobacco, maize and tea,
and may make it more difficult to diversify exports. This risk
is mitigated by plans to develop the lower-cost Northern
Corridor through Tanzania.
b)   Drastic changes in the prices of Malawi's chief exports -  tea,
tobacco and sugar - and of its essential imports, especially
fertilizer, could offset the gains from the program. The
diversification of exports and the use of high analysis
fertilizer should partly offset this risk.
c)   Some of the proposed changes in such fields as fiscal policy
and procedure, economic planning and better public investment
programming could meet with opposition and delay
implementation. In the past, however, Government has
demonstrated its willingness to undertake politically difficult
action.



- 26 -
PART V. BAIK GROUP OPERATIONS IN H&LAVI
90.       Over the past 19 years, Malawi has received 34 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit totalling about US$463 million and eight Bank loans
totalling US$99 million, of which two were on third window terms. The
first Bank loan to Malawi was made on third window terms in June 1976 and
the first Bank loan on standard terms in April 1977. Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$165 million (29 percent) was for agriculture, US$108
million (19 percent) for education, US$114 million (20 percent) for roads,
US$98 million (18 percent) for structural adjustment, US$39 million (7
percent) for power, US$11 mi-ilion (2 percent) for water, and the balance of
US$27 million (5 percent) for health, development finance, technical
assistance, and urban housing. For FY86, a credit of equivalent of US$11.6
million for an Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project has so
far been approved. Documents for a US$7.8 million loan for an Industrial
and Agricultural Credit Project are being submitted to the Executive
Directors at about the same time as this operation. A Forestry/Wood Energy
project is also scheduled to be presented to the Executive Directors during
FY86. IFC's equity participations and lending commitments in Malawi total
about US$25.8 million and include investments in textiles, sugar, a DFC
(INDEBANK), tourism, and the manufacture of alcohol from molasses. In
addition, a US$0.5 million equity subscription and US$1.8 million loan
investment in the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries United were
approved in August 1984, but are not yet signed. On September 23, 1985, an
IFC investment to finance the first leasing and finance company was
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group Operations
as of September 30, 1985.
Bank Lending Policy in Malawi
91.       During the next five years, Bank group assistance will focus on
helping Malawi to restructure its economy, especially in the areas of
agriculture and transport. Emphasis will also be laid on improving
administrative skills and organization of Government and other development
institutions. Bank Group assistance will also address the pressing needs
in the area of human resource development, including the issue of Malawi's
rapid population growth, over three percent annually, among the highest in
the world. Future lending in health and population, water supply,
transportation and education will support Government investments in these
sectors.
92.       The Bank Group's economic and sector work will continue to
provide a basis for discussions with the Government on key development
issues. Studies prepared or funded by the Bank already completed or to be
completed in the near future are as follows: (a) crop diversification,
land utilization, livestock, smallholder irrigation, management and
training, and an updated Sector Memorandum; (b) external transport; (c)
problems of population growth; (d) financial sector; and (e) institutional
aspects of development. A Public Sector Investment Review has recently
been carried out. Together with the above mentioned studies, it provides a
basis for helping Malawi develop appropriate sectoral strategies and
medium term development programs.



- 27 -
93.       The recently circulated Country Economic Memorandum focuses on
the resource requirements for sustained growth. A Consultative Group
meeting is planned in January 1986 to improve donor coordination and
mobilize additional resources needed to support Malawi's adjustment
process. The CEM planned for FY87 will concentrate on the long term
constraints on Malawi's economic development.
Disbursements
94.       The levels of disbursement for Malawi, including program support
were as follows: in 1982, US$70.1 million; in 1983, US$33.2 million; in
1984, US$58.2 million; and in 1985, US$46.4 million. The rate of
disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits to Malawi has been generally
satisfactory. During the period FY80-85, the disbursement rate on loans
and credits to Malawi (excluding non-project lending) averaged about 26
percent per annum, significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional
average of 19 percent and the Bank-wide average of about 21 percent.
External Public Debt
95.       By the end of 1984, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$741 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares tb a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983.  The Government has indicated that it will
not be asking for any further rescheduling, and the debt service ratio is
expected to remain at about 40 percent in 1985 and 1986 before falling to
less than 25% in 1990. Because of this high debt service ratio, commercial
bank borrowing will have to remain sharply curtailed and the balance of
payments gap should be closed by concessionary financing. Similarly,
constraints on local borrowing would indicate the need for local cost
financing to be provided by donors.
Project Implementation
96.       The implementation of Bank projects continues to be generally
good, as emphasized in the Audit and Project Completion Reports- However,
the third National Rural Development Program (NRDP)project and the Fifth
Highway project have been delayed by inadequate budget provision and
management shortcomings. These problems are being addressed satisfactorily
by the Government.
PArr VY.  __y___ATION
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
98.       I am also satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit
would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by the
Executive Directors of the Association.



- 28 -
99.              I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
November 25, 1985
* =X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 29 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
DEFINMONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
Noter Alho  ite data are drawn from sousm gnrally judged tbe meat outhoritatve nd rdiable. it hould aso be noted that tty may not be internanornly
cmparale because of the lack of stndardized defintion and concepts uaod by different countrier in collecting the data. Th data are. nonethel. taeful to
desmbe order of manitude. indicate trendar and chaize certain major difren  between countieL
he reference group are aII  the ame country group or tie subjoet country nd (2) a country group with nomewhat hhr ave*  ineome than the country
group of the subet country (except or -High Income Oil Expoters group where -Middle Inwome North Afria nd Middle East is chosen ba&mse of strongr
secio.cultural afnitie). In the refernce goup data the av*a    ame population weighted rithmeLic mea for eac indiat and shown, only when majority
ofthe counmries in a group hs data ror that indictuo Since the coverge ofcountrie.mong the indictl depends on the avilability ofda nd is not uniform.
caution must he exercied in rdating average f one indicator to anther These averaes a only uefl in emnpaig te value ofone indicao at a time among
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude Nht Rate (per theuaud)-Number of live biths in the year
Tota--Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters  per thiousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Dth Rate (per JJuksadj-Number of deaths in the year
Agrcastiral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops. pastures. markct and kitchen gardens or to  Grem Rgpraducie Rate-Average number of daughters a womnan
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rateis usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS--GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970, and 1953.
market prices, cakulaed by same conversion method as World      Ihidl Muuiu-Acps.n, Assai (themads)-Annual num-
Bwsk Atlas (1981483 basis): 1983 data.                          ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planing program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fedy Psuming- rs (percew ef rd we)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are praiciug any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Tetl PopeiAtiom  MideYer (thomuds)-As or July i; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urla_  tP.leati.u (percent  of atotd)-Rzstio Of urban to total  ,EIAre ofFoodPredcldir Fer Cpiyfta (1969-71 =    10)-Index orper
nopulation; Popdlifferent dpvefinitions  of urban areaoa teompar-  capita annual producton of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affec compar-  exdudes aninal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960.1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (cg. sugarcane instead or sugar)
-          Projections                                          which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
,Ppuation in year XW 20-The projection of population for 2000.  ctcuded); they comprise cerals, root crops, pulse  oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, ftuits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beet livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each tounry is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights, 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Fe Cpita S*r qfCaris (percent efseqadeates)-Comput-
Stationary popuktion-ls one in which age- and sni-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supples available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monwenan-ls the tendency for population growth to   Fr Capit Supply o_f brewiE (grmns per duy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achkieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary popultion to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
P     _p i  Dmty                                                averge for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkrn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Fr Capoia Poei Supply From AtmME!and Paise--Protein supply
Per sqkm. agrinthural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and puises in grams per day; 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popuatiom Age StrIctare (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  CMd (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (l5-64years). and retired (65 years and over) as pacentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populain  Givrw  Rate (prcentrl-total-Annual growth rates of   from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popubion Growth Rate (perct)--rrbau--Annual growth rates       isfe Expectny at Birth (yews)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 30-                                      ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to say the same throughout ib life:  ApM-:teacher Ratio - primary, and secondary- Total students en-
1960 1970 and 1913 data.                                      rolled in prinary and secondary lewvs divided by numbers of
1sf. Martahy Rate (per rhawanO-Number of infants who die    teadici in the corresponding lewis.
before teaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Aem  to Sm lr *    (pc         qf psIldoJfi            i             r Cars (per thawed pqpnlarionj-Passenger cn corn-
ruml-Number of people (total, urban, and rmral) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating kl  than eight persons: excludes ambul-
as to safe water upply (indudes treated surface water or      ances, heases and military vehicla.
untreated but uncontananoted water such as that from proteted  RAio Reckneivr (per thousand pepubalu -All types of receivers
borholcs. springs and sanitary wels) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcats to general public per thouand or population:
tive populationu In an urban arcs a public fountain or standpost    excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  rgisttion of radio  ts ws in effect data for mcent years may
as being within reasonable at   of that house. In rural areas  not be comp radb since most countaes fbolished rcensingm
reasonable ac  would imply that the housewife or mnembers of the
housebold do not have to spend a disproportionate pan of the day  TVReelts (per trhesmodp.pulsia)-TV recevers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water neds.                         to general public per thousand population; exludes unlinsed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Accs Ie Ezrera  Dispsl 4ceu  ef pep_-td.a urban,    in r
ud rual-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by m        .
acreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  AksWf CfCircVJON (per thaurmfpopulostbu-Shows the aver-
Excmeu disposal may include the colleion and disposal. with or  age circulation of 'daily geneal intes newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human exereta and waste-water by water-  priodical pubication devoted primarily to reording genal news.
borne systems or the uo of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Aftpm        per Pdysiciar-lbpulation divided by number of prac-  Ciauesa Amami Aneadmwe per Caia per Yar-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school kt univeniity level.    number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
PAp.lei  per Hmrsiu Pe>n.-ftpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurss. assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxilianes.                      LABOR FORCE
hpwltu  per Hospita Red-mi,. wham, and  rm'-Ppulation         Tarot Labr Fac (thtmdfl_-Economically active persons. in-
(total urban. and rura) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hopitalbeds available in public and private, general and      students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are etbnishments  various countries are not comparabk 1960, 1970 and 1913 data.
permanently staffed by at leas one physician. Establishments prov-  fae   (parcenv)-Fecnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodia care are not included. Rual hospitals.    force.
however, include health and medical centers not pennanently staffed  Agrcakue (percew-Labor force in fanring. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant nurse, midwife, etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor rorce 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical Facilities.                                       Indutry (percenJ)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Adusiaws per Hespil Red-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and dectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      forwr 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
lwkicipada RAte (p_ecek-ra4 uncle amdjkmmrli-a    pation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and fne  labor force
Ar5c  ow qf Houehd (porous per hUJensuldj-roial uren,         as percentages of total male and ermale population of all ages
avid sl-A household consists of a grup of individuals who share  respectivdy. 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
bving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger nay or  partcipation rates reflecting age-sex structureofthe populaton. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  lon time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcn
Ave INurmber of Prses pr  Romw-mroal, rham, -ad rurl-  Eicouodr  Dependency Rark-Ratio of population under 15. and
Aveage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pennanent strctures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBLMlON
Pqercene fDr De-us wit Ellectricisy-rcral, am, ca rural-      Peene of TOWal Disposablk lue    (both i cash ad hind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups i households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ed Euroluenr Ratos                                         The following estimites are very approximate measures of poverty
Prniary saed - total, male and fea-Cr   total. mk and         leveis. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femak enrolmuent of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Estimaed Absolute Poewry Incoe Lee (US1  per capi*a)-urbau
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rura-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the rtios given. For some countries with universal  Enmured Reaive fovrty lcoe Level (USS per capiia)-_rbar
education. gross enrollment may cxceed 100 percent since some  ad r*ral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban klvel is
age                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. nik and fenak-Computed as abovc    living in urban areas.
seowndary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Eirmted Popxlto b elow Absolute Povet las Level (per-
mary instructionc provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent j-rbam aid rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupil usualy or 12 to 17 years or agr, correspond-  who are absolute poor."
enc courss are generally exduded.
Vocational Enroiheni tpercent of seenwrry)-Vocational iostitu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial. or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 31 -
ANNEX I
T     A 3 L L  A                          Page  3  of  7
1fi411 _ ~- soCUs xmxlcauu nra inle
NMRhUhmn oae   Wdza*SI 
'MT                     (onsr amcm  sTz) Lb
m90t   ACme       LOW -no  AmCA           uzues INWNo
n90etk            j-isaTb          Semi or ArA         AMCOa I. oF lAUUA
1wA C2sonAso W. no
tOTaL                               U.55
ERICULIURL                        37.9        39. 3      6.7 7
CPU cli toCo)                         ..         ..        230.0            235.8                  1M3
CILOCUAM  OF OL EqALUIT)           ..        35.0       46.0              62.3                    561.5
POEMS STRUL UTATISUC
PiOULATlOHIDLUA1  (TUUSANS)   3529.0       4513.0      6625.0
URBAN onaTriou (0 oF TOTAL)        4.4        6.4        11.1             20.1                     32.0
rOUIATIOI rsroNsM
POPuLnATIOS K 1Y11 200 (HILL)                          11.4
SATIONcARY iOPULAflOU (PMLL)                           36.0
POPLTIOU 313111                                         2.0
POrULATM  nITT
3 sq. R1.                       29.6       38.1        55.9             33.2                     65.1
i 11 SQ. s. I. LUAW            93.1       114.3      154.1             112.0                   12
POPUIALTIWl SC STRUICII CZ)
0-14 ns                        65.5       46J         47.1             64.0                     45.6
15-G& in                        52.0       50.8       68.9              50.8                    53.5
653 AM AVZ                       2.4        2.4        4.0               2.9                      2.7
POPULAT10O  mRm  RATE CE)
tOTAL                            2.0        2.5         3.0              2.8                      2.9
DRI                              6.3        6.2         7.0              6.4                      5.1
caUD BIRTH RmAn CPR THeUS)       5X.0        56 54.0                     472                     *7.0
Cano  DUAH RCTE CPU I05)          29.7       23.0       23.0              17.8                     15.0
0ROSS 5PUFOUCTOll RAU              3.8        3.8         3.8              3.3                      3.2
FAULT PLANU
ACoCET. AMAL (TrOUs)
0s53 (2 or ASRED I               ..         ..          1.0 fc           3.3                      6.4
jrm or rao mm. Pas cAprA
(1969-71-100)                     90.0       91.0       96.0              83.3                    B2.9
rF cAinA SUPPLY or
CALORIKS (Z Olr r5UpIiI)        91.0       99.0        99.0             87.7                     96.3
-mnn,s (Cum Prs DA)             62.0       71.0        68.0             51.9                     55.4
OF YIWCU *5DI  AM PULSE        13.0       19.0        19.0 /c          16.7                     16.5
CIILD (AtZS 1-4) DEM  MU          59.7       50.3       36.0              23.1                     16.6
LlU EXPlCt. AT UIE (ClAS)         36.3        0.0       *4.2              47.3                    52.0
[51ST MIL. RE   (rEM saCs)       207.0      193.5       164.0            119.5                    IDEA
SSS T0 SCAE WATE (Rio,)
TOAL                             ..         ..          1.0 Id          27.1                     42.
DUIM                             ..         ..         77.0 7T          63.5                     67.5
RURAL                            ..         ..          W.0l;           19.3                     35a
A:C33 TO CRt  D015osAL
(S O POPULATIbN)
TOTAL                            ..         ..         33.0 /d          26.5                     28.9
URAa                                        0. IO. 7i                   65A                      57.7
RURAL                            ..         ..        Ui.O77            20.8                     20.7
-POPULATION PER ms[cun         36380.0    38630.0    40990.0           27901.7                  1171.7
POP. PER 33N5   P53tS0         1320.0 If  9050.0       3 o30.07T        330.                     2459.8
rTOA                           390.0      650.0       740.0 /.         1273.6                   961.1
0U3I3                          120.0 If   L60.0       80.0 71          426.2                    368.J
IDEAL                         310.0 73     900.0    1480.0 7         3292.5                   *371.9
A.42HSSIONS PR  OSPETAL            ..        32.1        39.0 I            ..                      27.2
maug
DVER                              .. OF          7W      .....
AVUAG M0. oF FERSOIISMOOl
IDEAL                            ..         5.0  b       ....
.7th                             ... ..
IDEAL                            ........
P      lUCWrAC OF DSILLIMS WIH CLzCT.
TOTAL                            ..
RURA                             ..         16.0
IDEAL                            ....                   ....



- 32 -
T A * L E  3A                         ANNEX  I
-   ~   I0*103 0*1*Page  4  of  7
KULAWI                  SOb -AL 'I -ICAML5 GATA SHORT
MALMA                               REUENCE GROUPS (WEICffUD AVERAGES) Is
IIOST                    (OST  ECUT ESFU4ATE) Ab
lRECENT RLO  INMO   AFRICA              MEDDLE INCOM
111-0/b    jg70/b  ESTILAXdk        SOUTH UW SASIAM      AVILCA S. OF SA
ADJUbTED   0I.OLHNT PATIOS
PRIMARY: TOTAL                    *-         36.0       62.0              67.8                     95.7
AE                      .         45.0        73.0              77.6                   1IW.0
FEMLUE                  ..        26.0        51.0              54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  1.0         2.0        4.0              13.5                      17.3
MALE                    1.0        3.0        S.0               17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                 0.3         1.0        2.0                9.1                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 UF SECONDA)          23.6         Z.9        2.9 Id           13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEACHIER RTIO
PRIMARY                          41.0        44.0       65.0 Id           44.9                     41.1
SECONDARY                        14.0        16.0       21.0 7d           27.4                     25.5
PASSEER CARS/T1D'USAND POP          1.8         2.2        2.4 1            3.8                     20.
RADIO UEIVERS/TNDUSAIiD POP        21.6        23.5       44A               55.8                    107.6
TV RZCSEVERS/THOASAXD POP           1.7         ..         ..                2.6                     20.8
NEWSPAPER "DAILY CENERAL
INTERESTU) CIRCULATION
PER TtOUSA9D POPULATEON            ..          ..         4.8               5.0                     18.4
CINEMA ANUAL ATTUDANCZ/CAPITA       0.3        ..          ..                0.5                      0.4
LAM Pon=E
TOTAL LABOR FOCV (TMOS)         1621.0      1983.0     2751.0
FEMALE (PEICET)                  38.7       38.1        37.5              34.2                     3b.2
A.RIULTURE (PERCEIT)             92.0        69.0        6.0 Id           77.5                     54.5
IDUSTRY (PERUENT)                 3.0        4.0         5.0 74            9.7                     IU.3
PA2RICIPATIN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            45.9        43.9       40.9              39.3                     36.8
MALE                             57.5        55.3       52.6              50.9                     47.1
FEMALE                           34.8        32.9       30.8              28.1                     27.2
ECONMIC DEPENDENCf RATIO            1.0         1.1        1.2               1.3                      1.3
mEown IIISTNBIuTZOu
PERCENT Or PRIVATE INCOME
RECIVED Bf
IHEST S aOF OUSEWOLDS             ..         32.6/
RlIA.2 2=  or OUSEHOLDS           ..         50.67
-.O5T 20Z OF HOUSEHOI;S           ..         ID:;        .....
UWT 4Z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         21.5
POr   uTS   -os
ESTIMATED ASOLUTE POERr INCONm
LEVEL (US5 PER CAITA)
URBA                              *-          *        123.0 /c          lb5.5                    590.7
IAL                               ..          .         99.0 77           95.0                    275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERlt DIOIIE
LEVEL (USS FER CAPITA)
01113                             ..          ..        65.0 Ic          113.1                    545.6
IRDAL                             ..          ..        52.0 7&           67.6                    201.1
ESTIAMTED PP B LOW ABSOLUTE
POVUES INCODE LEVEL (Z)
UN143                             ..          ..        25.0 Ic           36.6
URmL                              ..          ..        85.0 7            61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
.OT APPLICABLE
N OTE S
l.  The group arages for each Indicator are populetiou-ueihted aritbmtic mes. Coerag  of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of datr *sd i not amifoor.
/b  Unles otherwise noted. "Oata for 1960" refer to ay year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betmen
1969 ad 1971; and data for 'most Recent Estimate' betwee  1981 and 1983.
/c  19,7; /d 1980; /a 1979; /f 1962; IA  1967; J 1972; /1 1978.
iUIE. 19B5



-33 -                                          mmz
i~o7
Pt.*&tlon   t 6152 - (id-1962 .
or ftr Ctut Us2IO - (MM
HU!   DUDC   n E~
Arni mwmth rot. CZ)
(giLt., fS$                        ktml                                              Fraimb4
1i~mter            eat amit Fkl)
1564          1980    1961    19622 193   1956            1965    166       67    1        IgW     1590
Cam teimt  p.                133.3           -1.0   -5.1      2.5    4.1    7.6            3.3     3.4     3.6    3.7    3.9       4.0
Agk -                       437.6           .6    -6.2      6.9     4.3    6.3           3.2     3.3     3.4    3.5    3.6       3.7
bAtq,                       21Z.7          -1.1   -2.6   -0A        4.1    2.9           3b      3.6     3.8    4.0    4.3       4.6
hX                         M5.0             4.2   -3.6      0.6     4.9    O             3.3     3.5    3.7      3.8    4.0      41
_uuwmt1m                     151             -3A    -4J    -IA        32    7.6           12.0     1.    2.5      26      3.0    2.
I uu om_bat                   19.0          -15    -31.1    24.1    14.7  -2.A            6J.    3.4       2.8    3.9     4.3     6.9
Wact. atQW3                   33.9. 2s5   -19J    -47                 7.1   20.3           1.9     5.3     5.0    5.       5.1     4J
of QS                  33L2            97J  -2J       -4.5    68A  -15.0           17.0     2.      2.6    2.7      3.7    3.
_u  mtIuul mvii.  153.0        -4.4      53    60.5    14.7   17.          -55.1    17.6    35.0    21.2    13.2    1
MP defltor (l978Ia                     X19.6   130.4   143.7  159.0  183.4           05.4 Z26.0   15.   273.4 a5.2   315.
- -       0       _aouSh.)               1.17  I.16   0.93B  0.8514 0.79             0.5147   .555  0Q5555  05   0.5555   C5
sm Of CDP O t Ibdet Prim  CZ)                            A    . A hI I Kmvu. C!)
tat awiut 1=,)db                                    (at  m      1979 pmv)
1975   196    1965   1990                            i375-        1960-5    195-90
Grow   tue nDIzt                                10O   NO.   1LO.0  10D.0                                5.6          1.        3.0
ArIIt           t pifac t r mstin               37.5   35.3   36.3   35.9                              i           0.32       3.45
a Z Sol CP St                       19.4   16.5   17.7   17.9                              41           0m5       3.I5
Otl      j             f t                      43.1   45.2  4A"    66.2                               5.9         2J6        3.73
O-3_ttm                                           5A  -86.8   90.2   85.8                                5.0         0.C        4.6
Gtruu 1mvm                                       31.6   26.5   17.0   UA                                 4.3       -.75         467
tqat GUS                                         23A    26AS   23.1   25.1                               8J7         3.46       4.2
1wat GNUS                                        53.9   41.6   31.3   V.3                                3.2       -2.37        5.31
Cm= mdle    i                                   12.6   184A   5.9   12                                  -          170        2.59
2s  of CU
19MY1 VII 9756  1961/2  19R/83  196W4  1964/5
PUILC Fawn
Coret atECa                                                 15.5    16.5    20.6    19.9    19.6    20.0
Onrut e_itmw                                                16.5    15.       21A      21.2     20A      20.7
9tph. (4) or deft -)                                        -1.1      1.1   -15.    -12.7    -10.8       -3
OWptl emI1tum                                               12A      t2.9     11.5    11A       10.1      7.6
Felp floamdi                                                II.      O.A      6J       9.5   A .5        5.2
197590  1906o5  196590
onat -MO
aF   intvi at.e (t)                                         5.6      3.72    4.0
cm  er FM    puelw rute ()                                  1.9     0.80      1.21
1e    M.in         Jo,   Coe (o)                           6.1      2.22     2.62
10IR                                                       6.4      8.0      4.37
dIMuI um          tuf                                      0.1      0.75     0.37
Iquot elindty                                             -0.2      1.35     0.83
O/ ouqiwt am ep          a t fator  aut
b/ pected .i y     t      P . i                                                                   Enstern and Southern Afr7ca Reglon
Y At  M Dt 10                                                                                     October 5. 1985



34
ft1hr       t  to45   - (0
m         - auul bad
hAu,i Orwitl tate (Z)
(at wtait 190 pdm)
bAlUm MS                        kbil                                            ?wjectaI
_- 11                  at urmt ydin)
1914  19iwo                   1911     W a    9Bm         19S5   19B6 1i   W       -       -      IS90
lrdMl_ M                     335.1          22.9  -16.5   -3.6       4.3   32.3         -1.0    4.5      5.0     5.3    5.0    4.7
Fd_W                      28W7            173   -39.5   -6.1      4.1   34.5          -1.3     4.5     5.0     SA      4.9    4.5
1     _                   21.4         111.0    9.6  -24.6       0.5   14.1           4.0    4.0     4.5      5.0    6.0    7.0
UACdmd1as SRM                1743            0.3   -17.1   -18.7     0.1  -14.8          8.3    3.0      2.7      3.0    3.4     33
Food                        5.5          35.0   57Z   -56.3  -11.4  -3D.7             14.3    L.O      1.4     1.3     2.0 L    .4
ftlten                     31.2          -.6    -0   -33.3        1.7  -1.6            8.3    2.6      2.7     2B      17      Lo
Mdiu    ad eiA             38.8          11.9  -51.3  -16.    -33   -5.8               3.4    6.5      4.3     5.9    6.8    6.1
Cd.r                       9B.5         -2t3    4.         .6     2.5  -19.6           9.7    2.1      2.2   2_1       2.3     23
EaMet pc llaIm                               1.1    39.0    9.1    -1.5   3S.4         -2D.4     7.Y    9.1      9.1     14      9.6
lqiot pdm i,*.                              21.5   16J       7.6    23.8   29.2         -1.6     4.7     7.0     7.4    7.6    7.5
d of t  L                             -17.0    19.0     13   -20.5    *.1         -19.2     3.1     1.9     1.5    1.7      19
tf IkdiuLae  baeb CZ) tA 1                                   aa It       CZ)
Cot a...ut pea)                                        cot   t     1979 pdm.)
1935   19K0   1965   1990                                 197560      191045    13-90
IOD1  10O.   10.0  100.0                                      9.6        2.7        5.0
Prliny q92.6   89.7   90.3   90.1                                                                     8.3         3.3       4.9
-    :facug                              7.4   10.3   9.7    9.9                                     17.         -1.4       5.2
IqottW 100  100.0  1000  10                                                                           -1.4        -9.4        3.1
rawd                                     4J    7.3    5.6    5.2                                     -09        -19. J        6
peavames.                                9.1   13.9   18.2   17.9                                     8.3       -4          2.7
NWdd  o*d.m                              24.S   34A4   21.0   24.0                                    1.0       -15.1       5.9
_0dix.                                   61.S   4A6   55.2   5L9                                      45         -5.8        2.2
9Sue of nade ulit                Sam Of Tr* wit                      sQ a f bak AM
Ymdutda Owntdm (2)             O1e1apt 9zg m m (1)                cp1m1 angi. an  aetwa.!(CZ)
170    3975    1950              1970     3975   1v0e             1970         1975         19B0
h~urt                                      -653   76.2    69.0             11.3      10.3    7.0             23.4         13.5         A0
ftix -|                                    _         _        _            _        _          _            _-  
bpocta                                       5S.7   64.8    75.0           24.2      14.5    6.0             19.0          .7          19.0
11 1W1deu c  &mlcdmg aeda.
Eastern and Southern AUric ReSion
October 5. 1985



- 35-                                                     D
WiMt 7
rqulation       6452 1od-l"Z? thui Jsb
wr t w    * usaa - (1992
-   NAR  or P?NISM. CfIWAL CPrfL AD Dlr
- allUs D.I Pat  merna   prima)
Acmt!                                               PsiOect
1979   1990D   981   132  1993   13t4                       ISI    135   19D    13    19111  1990
tWAIn or mumn
*qiai af ms& ad aewin                    353.5  3194  33.7  326.3  319A                        293.0  327.2  371.4  423.7  4A   551.3
Of dckb- Ibrdmdlmef.o.b                 284.5  37.6  242.1 230.3  33.1                        239.8  269.2  3D.1  354.1  4%.9  46J
parta af ian ad gMfma                     663  504.6  474.7 483.8  414.                        40.5   41.4  472.0  514J   571.3  631J
of ditr lhSada.e .b.                    316.2  257.9  1956   13.2  174.3                      385.0  199.5  2193  242.  2o.0  2mJ
Itt trus   *                             IGA    21.1   u.k  12.7   1J                         -D3J  -14.7  45.7  -16J    3.0   -9.2
a             bEl                       -256.4 -133.7 -125.0 -144.2  -34.5                    -125.3 -123   -116.1 -07.5 -10.8   99J
Prdvae diret                                -      -      -     -      -                         -      -      -       -      -      -
Offidal gme id                             50.0   66.2   36.3  29.5   24.4                      63.6   32.1   64.B   36.    44.1   46J
Ex lae (1Mt)                              176.9   51.4   24.3  2Z.6   42.7                      42.5   95.1   75.1  1232   75A    52.9
oLdca                                   136.6   423   327  23.9   63.0                        75.5  119.7   86.9  129A    71.1  79.3
Pita                                     40.1    9.1  -6.4  -7.3  -20.3                      -33.0  -24.6  -31.9   46.0    4      13.
ter tn                                     436   29.    0.6  12.6   26.4                         8.2   13.0  -19.3  -16.6  -194  -19.7
OEl_     in ueJ (- - Inc-1O               -39.1    6J    63.8  79.5  -9.0                        11.0  -11.4  -44  -354    S   -193
Gam  b1enutlclmm                           79J   57.0  32.3  25.5   69.9                         5L9   703   74.7  110.1  10.   nIt
Mct iitetsula                             -0.7 -1213 -146.0 -178.7  -64.2                        -      -      -       -      -      -
Gua  tWEn -"  M       Iqt                   1.5    1.    0.    03    2.0                          1.7    1.9    .9    2.6    2.2    2A
EL L   AD M MM
an meb                             172.1  211.3  173.5 39.6  94.9  153.4                        92.2  181.9  18.7  2143   155.5  173.0
OidiCowrte                        46.6   31   46.3   36.3  34    35.2                          3D.0   3L2    36.3   36.5   39.3   4.l
_      1niaul ln                  433   60.6   46.1   U2    0.9  103.5                         463  123.1   55.A   93.4   5D.1   55.3
-C                              16.6   17.7   31.6    .4   1.3    5.3                         3.3    4.3    4.7    4.2    4      5.5
UE                               -      -      -      -     -       -                         -      -      -      -      -      -
It                  *           14.5   15.1   21.0   27.1  32.3   93.6                       33.3  110.5   41.9   79.0   33.8   36.1
er                              12.0   27.8   13.5   10.3  14.8   14.6                        9.7    7.8    8.6   10.2   11.9   13.
1             1-ONiaud lam        82.2  1WO.6  B9.1   30.5   .6   23.7                         15.9  26.7   39.0  8l.1   66.1   75.
Official beit tS                 89   28.2    3.4    1.2   6.7    4.8                        4.4    6.6    3.2    94    10.0   17
LED                             12.3    7.6   26.    21.0   1.5    1.6                        4.0    7.4   129   49.7   25.7   M.9
otierr Il ldant                  5.1    6.9    3.0  * 0.7   2.0   15.0                        2.5    4.3    6.6    9.1   11.5   13.9
-i-t                           5S.4   57.9   47.    7.6   7.4        3                        5.0 S  84   U.3   19   IL9   23.
tb DOtatdig ad mg   -emel       719.3  639.9   726J  270.1  7.8  U4.4                         93.3  968.4  109  1156.3  127.1 3W.9
OffIcil                        547.1  413.4  185.6  56.2 594.1  707.2                       749.1  8.3  925.2 104.6 1120.9  119L
Privae                         171.4  275A   241.0  225.9 213.7  177.2                      144.2  119.6  10.7  101.7  156.2  119.8
u: dlAh   telt                   171A  D1.2  208  UB.8 225.6  250.1                           326  363.2  399.8  427.9  496.9 5.3
Dbt Serie
lbl knts 3k3e fl                 -43.5  -0.6  -98  -61.7 -59.3  -6.9                         -8.2  -93.0  -6.7  -4.0  -429  -6.0
itageat                        -24.3  -34.6   4A.4  -32.0 -29.6  -3D.6                     -33.0  -39.3  -33.8  -31.9  -7.3  -41.9
NE Gaig. a   lerdae            -6w.    -646  -13.9  -21.0 -19.9  -30.6                      -2.3  -35.1  -39.5  -32.5  -35.3  -33.0
PRu          i          2         -      19.1   25.0   19.3  17.9   21.9                       293    S.4   21.7   3.3   17.1   152
Avmge Isu _ ata a sm Ie)                                               3.0                       4.0    4.0    6.0    9.0    5.      6.0
OfficiAl
Averg lthulty of m  loom (ygm)                                        40.8                       VJ   33.3   22.9   3.0   3.1 J93
Pita
Abn   of Debt QtbWCr
at  od of ker 31, 133
thirty stnltur of debt at  ben5
etsdts ie Wieldn S yea                   2.0
tbijfm   s delis 10 yas                  44.1
lbatet atnutt  of debt asta
Intest ie mime fEnle   r                  3.6
bitern and Southern Afrlca Region
October 5. 1985



- 36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                    Undis-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower    Purpose               Bank      IDA    bursed
6 loans and 19 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96    224.64
Cr. 857-MAI  79              NRDP I                          22.00    3.04
Cr. 910-MAI  79              Education III                    14.50    1.03
Cr. 992-HAI  80       -      NRDP II                          13.80    4.00
Cr.1123-MAI  81              Education IV                    41.00   11.53
5r.1183-MAI  82       -      NEDP III                         7.30    2.99
Cr.1272-MAI  82      -       Lil. Water Supply Eng.           4.00    1.56
'r.1330-MAI  83       -      Education V                      34.00   27.49
Cr.1343-MAI  83       -      NRDP IV                          10.60    8.38
Cr.1351-MAI  83              Health                           6.80    4.11
Cr.1352-MAI  83       -      Smallholder Fert.                 5.00    0.16
Cr.1423-MAI  84              Highway V                       26.90a/ 19.20a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84              Highway V              18.00             17.96
Cr.1428-MAI  84       -      Tech. Assist. II                  1.50    1.10
Ln.2486-MAI  85              Wood Industries         6.40              6.04
Cr.1528-MAI  85              Urban Housing b/                15.00   15.00
Cr.1549-MAI  85              NatI. Agri. Res. b/             23.80   23.80
TOTAL c/                                      99.36   450.84  147.39
of wThich has been repaid                   5.15      5.77
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                94.21   445.07
Amount sold           -30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                             24.00   123.39  147.39
a/ Includes Special Fund Credit.
b/  Became effective November 19, 1985.
cl In addition, a US$11.6 million equivalent credit for an Agricultural
Extension and Planning Support Project was approved by the Executive
Directors on September 19, 1985, and will be signed shortly.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Investment Fiscal                      Type of
Number     Year   Obligor              Business        Loan    Equity   Total
--(US$ Million)-
326-MAI    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles         10.8         -     10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
L:dited
362-MAI    77,81  Dwangwa              Sugar           9.9         -      9.9
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MhAI    79     Investment and      Development       -         0.6    0.6
Development         Finance
Bank of Malawi      Company
502-MAI    80,84  Malawi               Tourism         2.1         -      2.1
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    81,82  Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of          ing Alcohol
Malawi              from
Molasses        2.2        0.3    2.5
Total gross commitments                               25.0         0.9   25.9
Less cancellations, terminations,                     10.2         -     10.2
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                     14.8         0.9   15.7
Total Undisbursed



- 38 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Supplementary Data Sheet
*           Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)        Preparation                       December 1984.
(b)        Appraisal                         May 1985.
(c)        Negotiations                      November 1985.
(d)        Planned Date of Effectiveness    December 1985.
Section II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to June 1986 or other agreed date, the Association
would review the Government's progress in implementing
the structural adjustment program as set forth in the
Letter of Development Policy.
Section III. Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$49 million would be
dependent on the Government's making satisfactory
progress in carrying out commitments undertaken in its
Letter of Development Policy and executing its
adjustment program (para. 76).



CAPITAL CrTY
LILONGWE 3
-39-           ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
Ref. No. C2/1/62/1/VI                 1st November, 1985
Mr. A. W. Clausen,
President
International Development Association,
1818 H Street, N. W.
*             Washington, D.C. 20433,
United States of America.
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Re:   Letter of Development Policy
The Government of Malawi (GOM) requests the
International Development Association (IDA) to provide
an IDA credit in an amount of US$ 30 million, an
African Facility credit in an amount of US$ 40 million,
and a Special Joint Financing Facility in an amount of
US$ 30 million, as a Third Structural Adjustment
Credit, in support of the Government's structural
adjustment program whicb has been in effect since 1981.
Under the two previous Structural Adjustment Loans
(SAL), the Malawian economy has made significant
progress towards recovering from the external shocks it
has been subjected to since late 1970s and has recorded
positive per capita income growth since 1983. However,
in view of the structural constraints faced by Malawi
and to ensure the sustained growth of the economy, the
need for continued adjustment is recognized by the
Government.   The requested credits would enable the
Government   to   intensify   its   efforts   towards
restructuring the economy, to complete the various
measures  of  adjustment  already  started,  and  to
undertake additional initiatives.
The external sbocks faced by the Malawian economy
since the late 1970s, mainly the worsening of the terms
of trade and the disruption of the traditional
transportation  routes  to  the  sea,  have  caused
disequilibrium in the balance of payments and slowed
down  the  growth  of  the  economy.    The  Government
responded to the crisis by preparing and implementing a
structural adjustment program which was supported by-..
two SAL operations by the Bank and an Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) with the International Monetary Fund
(Iff). The program has been relatively broad based and
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



40                  ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
has also aimed at encouraging diversification in
production and exports, improving the performance of
the   productive   sectors,   rehabilitating   the   key
development   institutions,   and   improving  resource
mobilization and allocation in the public sector.
Implementation of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program
The Government has successfully implemented the
first two phases of its structural adjustment program.
In agriculture, smallholder price incentives have been
used   to   achieve   the   objectives   of   increasing
production, diversifying exports and securing food self
sufficiency. The smallholder fertilizer supply problem
has been addressed under a separate project and
sufficient fertilizer was procured in. a timely fasbion
during  the  last  two  cropping  seasons.    Also,  the
subsidy on fertilizer was eliminated, based on costs
througb the traditional Mozambican ports, although
additional   costs   resulting   from   the   extended
trarnsportation routes have continued to be subsidized.
The Government has taken initiatives to start a credit
facility to provide medium and long term credit to the
agricultural -estates.   In indus-tr, a rigorous price
liberalization program has been pursued. The number of
items subject to price control were reduced from
56 to 9. The Government bas taken action to reduce the
impact of the transportation crisis on the economy, by
creating an emergency task orce and forming a company
to coordinate the freight bookings. Efforts were also
made to open new corridors and to invest in more
reliable routes.
In  the  area  of  resource  mobilization  and
allocation, the Government prepared a three-year public
investment  program  covering  1984/85-1986/87.    New
revenue measures were introduced with each new budget
to ensure the maintenance of basic Government services
while  reducing  the  budgetary  deficit.    Budgetary
allocations to key developmental departments were
maintained at adequate levels. Three-year projections
were prepared for Government revenues and expenditures
providing the Government with a medium-term framework
for resource availabilities and expenditure outlays.
Also, an external borrowing strategy and plan were
prepared by the Treasury.
A number of key development institutions required
rehabilitation  and  restructuring.    A multi-faceted
restructuring of Press (Holdings) has been carried out.
Under the Press Restructuring Agreement, signed in



41 -                NNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
December, 1983, new companies were formed and corporate
guidelines were adopted.  A strategy document for the
rationalization of Press assets was prepared and assets
were swapped with ADMARC and MDC. ADMARC's management
was strengthened, and its capacity utilization and
financial control have improved.   Progress was made
towards the rationalization of ADMARC's assets.   MDC
has made very good progress towards restoring its
financial health and asset rationalization.   It has
also reached an agreement with the Government on the
restructuring of its debts.  These institutions are now
in a better position to resume their contribution to
economic development.
The Government's overall policies have been
closely synchronized with the objectives of the
structural adjustment program.   To this end, Malawi
maintained an active exchange rate management policy.
The currency was devalued by about 15 percent in 1983,
and in January 1984 was tied to a basket of currencies.
To offset the appreciation that bad taken place in real
effective  terms,  the  Government  effected  anotber
devaluation of 15 percent in April,  1985.   Interest
rates were also monitored closely and appropriate
adjustments have been made in both deposit and lending
rates.
Developments in the Economy
The developments in the Malawian economy since the
implementation of the structural adjustment program
have  been  very  encouraging.    After  a  period  of
stagnation, the GDP growth was 4.5 percent in 1983 and
6.8 percent in 1984.   Preliminary estimates indicate
around 4 percent GDP growth in 1985. Major increases
were recorded in smallholder production, particularly
for maize, cotton, and tobacco. A major turnabout in
the economy was realized in 1984 wben the current
account deficit declined to 3 percent of GDP, from 13
percent in 1983.   Exports increased significantly in
terms of both volume and value while the demand for
imports was quite restrained.   Improvements were also
recorded in budget management.   The budgetary deficit
before grants gradually declined to 8.5 percent of GDP
in 1985 from a level of 17.0 percent in 1981.
Need for Continuing Adjustment
Despite   these   encouraging   developments,   the
Government of Halawi is fully aware of the need for
continued  adjustment.       Difficulties   in  external
transport continues to be a strain on economic growth,
directly costing the economy no less than US$ 50



-42-                    ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
million annually. The unestimated indirect costs are
also substantial. The sudden drop in tobacco and tea
export prices as well as in maize exports is a reminder
of the vulnerability of the economy to external events.
As a result of low export prices and higher than
average debt servicing requirements in 1985, the
current account deficit is expected to increase
significantly  compared  to  1984.       Reduced  export
earnings have also strained the Government's finances
on account of the impact on ADMARC's liquidity.
The Government has outlined the third phase of its
structural adjustment program in cooperation witb the
World Bank staff.   The program aims at an average
annual GDP growth of 3.7 percent during the 1985-90
period. As modest as this target appears in terms of
per capita GDP growth, achieving it will require a
vigilant implementation of the adjustment program, as
well  as  stepping  up  the  efforts  for  'resource
mobilization and efficient resource allocation. We are
projecting export growth of nearly 5 percent annually.
and import growth of little over 3 percent. Given the
relatively bigh debt-service ratio of about 35 percent
in the next few years, Malawi will need a net capital
inflow of approximately US$ 140 million annually during
the next five years.
Third Phase of the Government's Adjustment Program
In the third phase of its structural adjustment
program, the Government intends to continue witb the
implementation of the policies initiated earlier, to
complete  various  measures  of  adjustment  already
started, and to ensure that institutions that have gone
tbrougb rehabilitation recently will make further
progress. However, in view of the experience gained
and in response to changing conditions, there are some
shifts of emphasis in the program and some new
initiatives will be undertaken.
In agrAculture, the Government will continue to
use   smallbolder   price   incentives   to   encourage
diversification and output growth.   Pricing decisions
will be based on the objectives of food self-
sufficiency,   export   promotion,   while  considering
carefully the financial implications for both ADMARC
and the Goverment. Even though the price of fertilizer
was recently increased by 21 percent for the coming
crop year, the Government subsidizes  that portion of
cost resulting from the extended transportation routes.
However, to encourage more economic use of fertilizer
and to remove the financial burden on Government's
finances, remaining subsidies will be removed over a



ANNEX IV
43 -Page 5 of 7
four-year period, with no subsidy in the 1989/90 crop
season. With financial assistance from the World Bank,
a credit facility is being set up to meet the medium
and long term development credit needs of the estate
sector in agriculture.   Also, preparations are being
made for setting up facilities for extension and
management training in the estate sector.
In industry, the Government has undertaken major
action on the price liberalisation programme and has
further reduced the number of controlled items to the
present  list of nine.   This list of items will be
further reviewed in order to remain with a list of key
controlled items that are of strategic and social
importance. The programme is expected to be completed
by December,  1985.   To  improve the overall policy
environment for industrial growth, the Government will
further clarify and streamline the industrial licencing
system, and will continue to implement a flexible
system of foreign exchange allocation.  In this third
phase of the adjustment program, the Government plans
to put a strong emphasis on improved incentives for
export promotion and more specifically on the promotion
of non-craditional exports.   To this end, a detailed
strategy for export development will be designed and
adopted by the Government. The Malawi Export Promotion
Council will be strengtbened to respond to the need of
Don-traditional  exporters.    Als.o, an export credit
facility will be set up to provide different types of
financing  for  small  and  medium  size  exporters.
Finally, the Government is committed to the maintenance
of an active exchange rate management policy so as not
to weaken the competitiveness of Malawi exports.
The Ministry of Finance has conducted a study on
the Malawian tax system with a view to rationalizing
it.   The findings and recommendations of this study
will be closely examined and be gradually incorporated
into the tax system gradually. We expect that some of
these changes will be included in the 1986/87 budget.
rhe Government will also start the process of budget
reform and give the budget a more programmatic content
with a view to improving resource allocation in the
public sector. The Ministry of Finance will prepare a
supplementary document to the 1986/87 budget whicb will
identify all programs and projects financed under the
Central  Government's  budget.    The  Government  has
prepared a new three year public investment program,
covering 1985/86 - 1987/88 with a two-year extension
for  1988/89  and  1989/90.    The  first year of this
program is already being implemented.   This program
will be updated with the implementation of eacb budget
year.  The Government is also committed to update the
three-year projections for revenues and expenditures,
and the external borrowing strategy and plan document.



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
Under the structural adjustment program the
Government will monitor closely the progress of ADMARC,
MDC and Press Corporation Limited. These institutions
have gone through a period of restructuring and have
taken major steps towards the improvement of their
management,  organization  and  finances.    Currently,
ADMARC is facing serious liquidity problems due to
lower than expected tobacco export prices and the low
level of maize exports. To restore ADMARC's financial
bealth and to improve its operational efficiency the
Government will review and readjust its policies that
bave a bearing on ADMARC's finances while making
improvements in ADMARC's organization and operations.
With respect to MDC, the Government will ensure that
the organization continues to play an active role in
supporting new investments, particularly in the agro-
industry sector. The Government will also monitor the
operations of Press Corporation Limited to ensure that
the company adheres to its corporate guidelines and
follows through its asset rationalization objectives
while repaying its obligations to Government and ADMARC
in a timely fashion.
The challenges presented by the various adverse
developments of recent years have revealed the need for
improvements in the civil service and particularly in
the area of policy formulation and implementation
capability of 'the administration.   A Civil Service
Review  Commission  has  reviewed  the  organization,
functions  and  salary  structure  in  the  Central
Government and has submitted its findings to the
Government  in  July,  1985.    The  authorities  are
currently reviewing the recommendations of the report,
and  implementation will begin in 1986.   Meanwbile,
steps have been taken to strengthen the policy
formulation and implementation capability at the
center.     Recently,   the  Economic  Planning   and
Development Divisions of the Office of the President
and Cabinet have been merged into one unit headed by an
officer at the rank of deputy secretary. The new unit
will further be strengthened with additional staff, and
its functions and organisation defined more concretely.
Conclusion
Malawi has made significant progress towards
achieving the objectives of its structural adjustment
program.   The Government has made  every effort to
achieve these objectives and has taken many difficult
decisions. Despite the progress recorded, however, the
need for adjustment continues. The Government believes
that with the implementation of the policies and



- 45-mxv
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
measures outlined in this letter, the Malawi economy
will make strides towards attaining sustained growth
similar to the high levels attained in the past.  We
would like to count on the World Bank's continuing
support in this endeavour. With this understanding the
Government is asking for a third Structural Adjustment
credit in support of the third phase of our structural
adjustment program.
Yours Sincerely,
E.C.I. Bwanali, M.P.
MINISTER OF FINANCE



- 46 -
ANNEX V
FOREIGN FINANCING REQUIRED AND AVAILABLE
(USS Millions)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
REQUIRED
Current Account Deficit       125.3   128.9   116.1  107.9    105.8    99.7
Changes in Reserves             -       18.9     5.1   31.5       9.4    10.1
Loan Repayments, Official      15.2    21.7    26.7   32.2       31.0    33.6
Loan Repayments, Private       38.0    33.0    23.2   21.9       14.4     8.5
IMP Repurchases                20.8    15.0    24.3   21.8       24.6    24.7
Gap Financing                   -        2.4     2.0    3.9       9.3     9.8
Total Foreign                 199.3   219.9   197.4  219.2    194.5   186.4
Financing Need
AVAILABLE
Official Borrowing             77.1   151.4    83.1  161.5       97.4   108.9
Private Borrowing               5.0      8.4    11.3   15.9      18.9    22.1
Official Gcants                30.0    32.1    34.3   36.8       39.3    42.1
IMF                            24.0    23.0      -      -         -       -
Reserve Drawdown               11.0      -       2.7    -        24.3     -
Short Term Borrowing            5.0      5.0     5.0    5.0       5.0     5.0
Total Finance Available       152.1   219.9   136.4  219.2    184.9   178.1
Financing GAP                  47.2      0.0    61.0    0.0       9.6     8.3






