Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056723-IND 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 7, 2006
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056723-IND 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated  July 7, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Part B.1 of the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2;  
 
(D) 
by a GEF Grant Agreement dated June 19, 2006 between the 
International Maritime Organization and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the International Maritime Organization a GEF grant in the amount of six million eight 
hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($6,860,000), for purposes of Parts A, B.2, B.3, B.4, D 
and E of the Project; 
 
(E) 
a Memorandum of Understanding has been entered into among the 
Recipient, Malaysia, the Republic of Singapore and the International Maritime 
Organization on September 8, 2005, to provide a framework for participation, 
collaboration, commitment and co-operation to implement the Marine Electronic 
Highway Demonstration Project in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore (hereinafter the 
Memorandum of Understanding); and 
 
(F) 
a Memorandum on Arrangements has been entered into among the 
Recipient, Malaysia, the Republic of Singapore, the International Maritime Organization, 
the International Hydrographic Organization, the International Association of 
Independent Tanker Owners and the International Chamber of Shipping on September 8, 
2005, as an implementing arrangement in accordance with Article IV of the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Memorandum of Understanding to support, promote and collaborate in the 
implementation of the Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project in the Straits of 
Malacca and Singapore (hereinafter the Memorandum on Arrangements); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.
 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01(6), 6.02(f) and 5.01(a) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that 
in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
 
(vii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of 
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions are replaced with 
the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“MEH” means the Marine Electronic Highway system to be established 
under the Project. 
 
(e) 
“MEH Data Center” means the data centers to be established under the 
Project in the Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic of Singapore. 
 
(f) 
“Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum of agreement 
entered into between the Recipient and the International Maritime Organization  
on May 31, 2006, specifying: (i) the functions of the Project Management Office; (ii) the 
staffing (including support staff) and the facilities (including office space), to be provided 
to the Project Management Office; and (iii) who shall be responsible for providing the 
required staff, the facilities, and the operating costs of the Project Management Office. 
 
(g) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
March 14, 2006, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(h) 
“Project Area” means the area of the Strait of Malacca from One Fathom 
Bank (Permatang Sedepa) to the whole of the Strait of Singapore. 
 
(i) 
“Project Coordination Unit” means the unit established within the Office 
of the Deputy Minister for Nature Conservation Enhancement and Environmental 
Destruction Control in the Ministry of Environment. 
 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan adopted by the Recipient 
and the International Maritime Organization for purposes of the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
(k) 
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established within the 
Recipient’s Directorate General of Sea Transport in the Ministry of Transport. 
 
(l) 
“Project Management Office” means the office established at Batam, 
Republic of Indonesia, to administer and manage the Project. 
 
(m) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established at the 
regional level to implement the Project and to administer and manage the MEH system, 
and includes representatives of the Recipient, Malaysia, Republic of Singapore, the 
International Maritime Organization (as the Secretariat of the Committee), the 
International Hydrographic Organization (as observer), the International Association of 
Independent Tanker Owners (as observer) and the International Chamber of Shipping (as 
observer). 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(n) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account referred to in Part A.4 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount  equal to one million four hundred and forty thousand Dollars ($1,440,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Part B.1 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of Part B.1 of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B.1 of the Project through its Ministry of  Environment (as  the coordinating 
Ministry) and its Ministry of Transport (as the implementing Ministry), with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
financial and maritime practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  7
-
6
-
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a)  The Recipient shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  8
-
7
-
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B.1 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B.1 of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B.1 of the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the International 
Maritime Organization and the Bank referred to in Whereas Clause (D) of this 
Agreement, shall have failed to become effective six months after its signing or such later 
date as the Bank may agree; 
 
(b) 
the Memorandum of Understanding shall have been amended, 
suspended, waived or terminated so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
the Memorandum on Arrangements shall have been amended, 
suspended, waived or terminated so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
the Memorandum of Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
waived or terminated so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness, Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement referred to in Whereas Clause (D) 
of this Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the International Maritime 
Organization and the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Project Coordination Unit shall have been established in accordance 
with paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Project Implementation Unit shall have been established in 
accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(d)  
For purposes of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall have 
established auditing arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, including provisions to make 
the audit report available to the public. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(e) 
The Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, shall have 
been adopted by the Recipient in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Republic of Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA   
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By /s/ Mulia P. Nasution  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Andrew Steer  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars
)
to be Financed  
(1) Goods 
1,310,000 
100% 
 
(2) 
Unallocated 
   130,000
TOTAL 1,440,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
4. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements).  In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for Part B.1 of the Project 
for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case  
may be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are  
Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $300,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Category. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Category.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such 
withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are: 
 
(a) 
to assist the Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of Singapore 
and representatives of some of the large commercial ship owners that use the Strait of 
Malacca and the Strait of Singapore, to collectively decide whether to establish a marine 
electronic highway for the entire length of the Straits of Malacca and Singapore; and 
 
(b) 
to improve maritime safety and reduce environmental damage to the 
globally-significant shared natural resources of the Straits of Malacca and Singapore. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:  Marine Electronic Highway System Design, Coordination and Operation 
 
1. 
System Planning and International Maritime Organization Management
(a) 
Management of the operational aspects of the Project by the International 
Maritime Organization. 
 
(b) 
Development of a system for the management and on-line access and 
storage of data and information, including links to the MEH Data Centers and financial 
and economic assessments. 
 
(c) 
Development of criteria and measurable indicators for Project 
performance assessment, including the carrying out of a baseline survey to compile and 
analyze data and information covering a period of about thirty years up to the inception 
of the Project, as a basis for evaluation of the impact of the MEH system. 
 
2. Project 
Management 
Office
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of the Project Management Office, 
including relevant training. 
 
(b) 
Establishment of MEH Data Centers in the Republic of Indonesia, 
Malaysia and the Republic of Singapore, including provision of relevant training to the 
staff of the MEH Data Centers in operation and management of the MEH system and in 
data handling and exchange. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
Project Steering Committee Support
Carrying out of meetings of the Project Steering Committee, the Technical 
Committees and the Working Groups, including travel and accommodations for 
participants. 
 
Part B:  Marine Electronic Highway System Development 
 
1. 
Tide and Current Facilities
Tidal and current monitoring on the Republic of Indonesia’s coast of the Strait of 
Malacca, including provision of relevant equipment. 
 
2. Hydrographic 
Survey
(a) 
Carrying out of a hydrographic survey within the designated traffic 
separation scheme in the Strait of Malacca within the Project Area. 
 
(b) 
Provision of training to the hydrographic surveyors of the hydro-
oceanographic services of the Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic of 
Singapore. 
 
3. 
Electronic Navigation Charts
Production of high resolution electronic navigation charts for the Project Area, 
including provision of relevant computer software licenses to the Republic of Indonesia 
and to Malaysia. 
 
4. 
Information Exchange System
Establishment of a MEH information exchange system, including data servers, 
data exchange protocols and training of staff in data exchange. 
 
Part C:  Ship-Board Equipment and Communications 
 
Carrying out of testing of the demonstration MEH system by about 160 ships 
fitted with type-approved electronic chart display and information systems, including 
internet connectivity. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
Part D:  Marine Environment Protection 
 
1. 
Oil Spill and Sand Wave Models
Carrying out of a modeling and analysis of: (i) the likely movement of oil spills 
originating in the Project Area; and (ii) the sand wave formation and movement in the 
Project Area. 
 
2. 
Sensitive Area Mapping
Research and development of options for providing real-time geo-referenced 
environmental protection information to mariners navigating in the Straits of Malacca 
and Singapore and for conservation and coastal resources management and mapping of 
sensitive areas.   
 
3. 
Emergency Response Systems
Carrying out of simulated oil and chemical spill emergency response exercises to 
determine the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the MEH system in the event of 
chemical and oil spill incidents from ships. 
 
Part E:  Information Dissemination, Evaluation and Scale-up Plan 
 
1. 
Website and Publicity
Production and dissemination of information through the Internet on the MEH 
system, including technical reports, progress reports and a newsletter, and carrying out of 
national and regional workshops and seminars to provide information and seek feedback 
on the benefits and applicability of the MEH system.  
 
2. Evaluation
(a) 
Assessment of the cost and benefits of the establishment and use of the 
MEH system in terms of maritime safety and marine environment protection, including: 
(i) the development of criteria and measurable indicators for the socio-economic 
assessment of the MEH system; and (ii) the carrying out of a socio-economic survey to 
evaluate the benefits of the MEH system. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Carrying out of an assessment of the technical functionalities of 
the MEH system, including system performance. 
 
(ii) 
Carrying out of a continuous monitoring of new and potential 
technologies that could be linked to the MEH system or enhance its performance, 
including the carrying out of technical evaluations on the new technologies to determine 
their suitability, value added contribution, enhancing performance and cost effectiveness.  
Page  20
-
19
-
(c) 
Carrying out of an assessment of the MEH system, including institutional 
and legal aspects. 
 
(d) 
Consolidation of the technical, institutional, legal, financial and 
economic assessments of the MEH system, including the implementation of the Project, 
and development of a managing tool blueprint. 
 
3. System 
Development
Carrying out of marketing strategies to package and market the MEH system and its 
marine information and other products, and the services it could provide. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and servi
ces (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Section III
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, until completion of the Project, remain a member of, and an 
active participant in, the Project Steering Committee. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall, in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement, cause 
to be established by December 31, 2006, and, thereafter, maintained until the completion 
of the Project, the Project Management Office, with facilities and support staff at all 
times acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project: 
 
(a) 
the Project Coordination Unit with terms of reference, facilities and staff 
at all times acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Unit with term of reference, facilities and 
staff, including a procurement officer and a financial officer, at all times acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter, apply in the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the 
description of: (a) implementation arrangements; (b) the procurement procedures set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (c) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in 
Article 4 of this Agreement; and (d) the Project Performance Indicators set forth in  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive 
any provisions of the Project Implementation Plan without the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
5. 
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall, not later than April 30, 
2007, complete the purchase and installation of new tidal stations and the upgrading of 
existing tidal stations. 
 
6. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30 of each year, commencing June 30, 2007, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
Page  23
-
22
-
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B.1 of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by October 1 of each year, commencing  
October 1, 2007, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Part B.1 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Target Values 
Data Collection and 
Reporting 
Performance 
Indicators 
Baseline 
YR1
YR2 
YR3 
YR4 
YR5 
Frequency 
and 
Reports 
Data 
Collection 
Instruments
Component 
Two (Part B) 
 
Indonesian 
navigational 
data gathering 
system in 
Straits upgraded 
and data 
provided to 
MEH PMO.
 
No 
activity 
 
40% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
Semi-
annual 
 
Progress 
reports 
 
