                                       Documentof
                                    The WorldBank

                            FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                     ReportNo: 34042-ID




                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                           ON

                        TWO PROPOSEDGRANTSFROMTHE
                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                                         TO THE

                  INTERNATIONAL MARITIME ORGANIZATION
                       INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$6.86 MILLION

                                      AND TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$1.44MILLION

                                          FORA

          MARINEELECTRONICHIGHWAY DEMONSTRATIONPROJECT

                                       May 2,2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankauthorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 2005)
                         CurrencyUnit = US$
            Indonesia Rupiah 10,000 = US$1
               Malaysia Ringgit3.78 = US$1
              Singapore Dollar 1.647 = US$1

   FISCAL YEAR (International Maritime Organization and Republic o f Indonesia)
                           January 1   - December31

                   ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AIS          Automatic Identification System
DGPS         DifferentialGlobal Positioning System
DGST         Directorate General o f Sea Transport, Ministry o f Transport
ECDIS        Electronic Chart Display and InformationSystem
EMPS         Environmental Management and Protection System
ENC          Electronic Navigation Charts
GEF          GlobalEnvironmental Facility
FMR          Financial MonitoringReport
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICs          International Chamber of Shipping
IHO          International Hydrographic Organization
IMO          International Maritime Organization
INTERTANKO InternationalAssociation of IndependentTankers Owners
MEH          Marine Electronic Highway
MOE          Ministry o f Environment (Republic o f Indonesia)
MOT          Ministry o f Transport (Republic o f Indonesia)
MOU          Memorandum o f Understanding
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMO          Project Management Office
PSC          Project Steering Committee
STRAITREP    Straits o f Malacca and Singapore Mandatory Ship Reporting System
TC           Technical Committee
TSS          Traffic Separation Scheme
ULCC        Ultra Large Crude Carrier
VLCC        Very Large Crude Carrier
WG          Working Group

                  Acting Vice President:      Jeffrey Gutman
             Country Managermirector:         Andrew Steer, IanPorter
                         Sector Manager:      Jitendra N.Bajpai
                     Task Team Leader:        Sally Burningham

      MARINE ELECTRONIC HIGHWAY DEMONSTRATIONPROJECT

                                                    CONTENTS


A STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
 .                                                                      ............................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues ..........................................................................................             1
 2.  Rationale for Bank and Global EnvironmentalFacility (GEF) involvement ...............2
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ............................................                            3

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
.                                       ...........................................................................................   3
 1.  Lending instrument....................................................................................................           3
 2.  Program objective and phases....................................................................................                 4
 3.  Project development and global environment objectives and key indicators...............4
 4.  Project components ...................................................................................................           5
 5.  Lessons learnedand reflectedinthe project design....................................................                             8
 6 . Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection                          ...................................................... 8

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                             ....................................................................................................   9
 1.  Partnership arrangements...........................................................................................              9
 2 . Institutional and implementation arrangements..                         ........................................................ 9
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results........................................................                          10
 4 . Sustainability and Replicability              ...............................................................................   10
 5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.......................................................                         10
 6.  Grant conditions and covenants ...............................................................................                  12

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                     ...........................................................................................   15
  1. Economic and financial analyses                 .............................................................................   15
 2.  Technical.................................................................................................................      15
 3.  Fiduciary.................................................................................................................      16
 4.  Social......................................................................................................................    17
 5.  Environment............................................................................................................          17
 6.  Safeguard policies ...................................................................................................           18

 7 . Policy Exceptions and Readiness                 .............................................................................    18


Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                            .................................................      19

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                 ...........21
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                    ................................................................       22

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          .............................................................................        26

Annex 5: Project Costs......................................................................................................        35

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                .........................................................................       38

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                         ..............................   44

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              .............................................................................         49

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                .....................................................................        55

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues         ...................................................................................         64

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                     .............................................................       65

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File              .........................................................................        66

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                .....................................................................        68

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ........................................................................................         71

Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis            ..............................................................................        73

IBRDMaps 34371 and34372


                                 EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                  MARINE ELECTRONIC HIGHWAYDEMONSTRATION

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                 EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                                         EASTR

Date: May 2,2006                              Team Leader: Sally L.Burningham
Country Director: Andrew D. Steer             Sectors: Ports, waterways and shipping
Sector ManagedDirector: Jitendra N.Bajpai     (80%); Central government administration
Project ID: PO68133                           (20%)
Focal Area: Internationalwaters               Themes: Regionalintegration (P);Pollution
Lending Instrument: GEF Trust Fund            management and environmental health (P)
                                              Environmental screening category: Not
                                              Required


[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant   [ ] Guarantee  [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                      0.00              8.30            8.30
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL                       0.00              6.00            6.00
SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                           2.60             14.40            17.00

Borrower:
Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia
International Maritime Organization
United Kingdom

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministryo fEnvironment
Otorita Batam BuildingA 6 th Floor
Jln. DIPanjaitanKav. 24 KebonNanas
Jakarta, 13410
Indonesia
Tel: 62-21-8590 5638/4923   Fax: 62-21-6590 4929
pkelpamenlh.go.id

 International Maritime Organization
 4 Albert Embankment
 London
 United Kingdom
 SE17SR
 Tel: 44-20-7735-761 1Fax: 44-20-7587 3210
 INFO@,imo.org

1
                            Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)




 Project implementation period: Start July 3,2006 End:June 30,2010
 Expected effectiveness date: July 3,2006
 Expected closing date: June 30,201 1
 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 Ref: PAD A.3                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Ref: PAD D.7                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approvedby Bankmanagement?                                           [ ]Yes [ IN0
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [ IN0
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD C.5                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 Ref: PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

 Project development objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
 The project's development objective is to assist the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia, the
 Republic o f Singapore and representatives o f some o f the large commercial ship owners that use
 the Strait o f Malacca and the Strait o f Singapore, to collectively decide whether to establish a
 marine electronic highway for the entire length o f the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore.

 Global Environment objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
 The project's global environment objective is to improve maritime safety andreduce
 environmental damage to the globally-significant shared natural resources o f the Straits o f
 Malacca and Singapore.

 Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Ref: PAD B.3.a, Technical
 Annex 4
 The project consists o f the following five components:

   Component 1: MEHSystem Design, Coordination and Operation (US$2.88 million). This
 component will provide for project management by the InternationalMaritime Organization
 (IMO) on behalf o f the participating countries, coordination o f the design, development and
 operation o f the MEHdemonstration system and also provide for key technical inputsto the

 Component 2: MEH System Development (US$7.04 million). This component will provide for
production o f the navigational information on which the MEHsystem will be based, and its
incorporationinto real-time electronic charts that ship operators will be able to use to navigate
with precisionthrough the MEHdemonstration section o f the Straits.

 Component 3: Ship-board Equipmentand Communications (US$6.00 million). Carrying out o f
testingo fthe demonstration MEHsystemby about 160 ships fitted with type-approved
electronic chart display and information systems, including internet connectivity. This
component will be executed by the owners o f at least 160large oil tankers and container ships
that regularly transit the Straits, and will be facilitated by two major ship owner representative
organizations, the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners and the International
Chamber o f Shipping.

 Component 4: Marine Environment Protection (US$O.85 million). This component will be
executedjointly by the institutions inthe littoral states that are responsible for marine navigation
and environmental management and the International Maritime Organization and will consist o f
Oil Spill and Sand Wave Models; Sensitive Area Mapping and Emergency Response Systems.

 Component 5: Information Dissemination, Evaluation and Scale-up Plan (US$0.23 million).
This component will be managed by the I M O through the PMO, and will consist o f Website and
Publicity, Evaluation o f the MEHsystem and System Development.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Although the project triggers OP/BP 7.50 "Projects on International Waterways" the requirement
of notification o f other riparians does not arise. This i s because the three littoral states o f the
Strait o f Malacca, namely Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, are participating inthe
implementation o f the project, and have signed an Memorandum o fUnderstanding regarding
their participation

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
The Condition o fBoardPresentation has beenmet, namely that the InternationalMaritime
Organization and the Republic o f Indonesia have concluded an Agreement, acceptable to the
Bank, specifying the functions; staffing, including support staff; facilities including office space
to beprovided to the Project Management Office inBatam, as well as who will provide the
required staff, facilities, and operating costs.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Grant with the International Maritime Organization

 (a)    The Global Environment Facility Trust FundGrant Agreement shall havebeenexecuted
on behalfo f the Republic o f Indonesia and the Bank.
 (b)    The I M O shall have provided to the Bank a Project management memorandum,
acceptable to the Bank.

 (c)    The Project ImplementationPlan, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been adopted by the
IMO and endorsed by the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia andthe Republic o f Singapore.

 Grantwith the Republic o f Indonesia

 (a)    The GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement shall have been executed on behalf o f the
International Maritime Organization and the Bank.
 (b)    The Project Coordination Unit shall havebeen established
 (c)    The Project ImplementationUnit shall have been established
 (d)    The Republic o f Indonesia shall have established auditing arrangements, acceptable to
the Bank, including provisions to make the audit report available to the public.
 (e)    The Project ImplementationPlan, acceptable to the Bank, shall have beenadopted bythe
Republic o f Indonesia.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Grant Agreement with the International Maritime Organization

 1,     The IMO shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Project Steering Committee
shall be maintaineduntilcompletion o f the Project.
 2.     The IMO shall, inaccordance with the provisions o fthe Memorandum o f Agreement,
establish by December 31,2006, and, thereafter, maintainuntilthe completion o fthe Project, the
Project Management Office, with term o f reference and staff and at all times acceptable to the
Bank, including a Project Manager.
 3.     The IMO shall, until completion o f the Project, maintain at its headquarters a
procurement officer, acceptable to the Bank.
 4.     The IMO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Project management memorandum,
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the management tasks to be carried out bythe Recipient
under the Project, including the estimated cost o f each task.
 5.     The IMO shall adopt and, thereafter apply inthe implementation o f the Project, the
Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the description of: (a)
implementation arrangements, (b) the procurement procedures set forth inthe Grant Agreement
and standard procurement documentation, (c) reporting requirements, financial management
procedures and audit procedures as set forth inthe Grant Agreement, (d) the Project Performance
Indicators set forth inthe Grant Agreement, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provisions o f the Project Implementation Plan without the prior agreement o f the
Bank.
 6.     The I M O shall cause the Project Steering Committee to:
 (a) furnish to the Bank for its review and comments not later than September 30 ineach year,
commencing September 30,2007, and until completion o f the Project, draft revisions to the
Project ImplementationPlan for the components o f the Project not yet carried out, with emphasis
on the activities to be carried out inthe following calendar year, including the scope o fthe
activities to be carried out, cost estimates, time based implementation schedules, financing plan,
budget arrangements, and the relevant procurement plan; and
 (b) finalize the revisedProject Implementation PlanbyNovember 30 ineach year, commencing
November 30,2007, taking into account the comments o f the Bank thereon.
 7.     Incarrying out Component 2.3 o fthe Project, the IMO shallprovide allrequired

technical assistance to the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic o f Singapore to
ensure the production o f the electronic navigational charts by March 31,2008.
 8.     Incarrying out Component 3 ofthe Project, the IMOshallprovide the requiredtechnical
assistanceto ensure that the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners and the
International Chamber of Shipping have each, by December 31,2008, at least 60 and 100 ships,
respectively, equipped with type-approved electronic chart display and information systems,
including internet connectivity.
 9.     Incarrying out Component 5 ofthe Project, the IMOshall:
 (a) by May 31,2010, furnishto the Bank the draft final report on the technical, financial,
economic, and legal feasibility of a scaled-up Marine Electronic Highway system for the entire
Straits o f Malacca and Singapore; and
 (b) byAugust, 2010, taking into account the comments o fthe Bank, furnishto potential
participants and beneficiaries o f the full-scale Marine Electronic Highway system the finalized
feasibility study, including the design o f an operational and financing plan and an institutional
structure for the scaled-up Marine Electronic Highway system.
 10.    The IMO shall:
 (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoingbasis, in accordance with the indicators set the Grant Agreement, the carrying out the
Project and the achievement o fthe objectives thereof;
 (b)prepare, under terms o freference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or
about June 30 o f each year, commencing June 30,2007, a report integrating the results o f the
monitoring and evaluation activities performedpursuant to the Grant Agreement on the progress
achieved inthe carrying out o f the Project duringthe period preceding the date o f said report and
setting out the measures recommendedto ensure the efficient carrying out o f the Project and the
achievement o f the objectives thereof duringthe period following such date; and
 (c) review with the Bank, by September 30 o f each year, commencing September 30,2007, or
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to the Grant Agreement, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion o fthe Project and the
achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations o f the said
report and the Bank's views on the matter.
 11.    The IMOshall:
 (a) prepare, under terms o f reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or
about September 30,2008, a report integratingthe results o f the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to the Grant Agreement, on the progress achieved inthe carrying
out of the Project, including an assessment o f the commitment o fthe partners inthe Project, the
interest o f other countries inthe scaled-up marine electronic highway, evaluation o f new
technologies and their potential applicability and inclusion inthe marine electronic highway, and
determinationo fthe need for Project restructuring, ifany.
 (b)review with the Bank andwith the parties to the Memorandumon Arrangements, by
December 31,2008, the report referred to inthe Grant Agreement, and, thereafter, take all
measuresrequired to ensure the efficient completion o fthe Project and the achievement o fthe
objectives thereof.


 Grant Agreement with the Republic o f Indonesia

 1.     The Republic of Indonesia shall, until completion o f the Project, remain a memberof,
and an active participant in, the Project Steering Committee.
 2.     The Republic of Indonesia shall, inaccordance with the Memorandum ofAgreement,
cause to be established by December 31, 2006, and, thereafter, maintained untilthe completion
o f the Project, the Project Management Office, with facilities and support staff at all times
acceptable to the Bank.
 3.     The Republic o f Indonesia shall establish, and thereafter maintainuntilcompletion o fthe
Project:
 (a) the Project Coordination Unitwith terms o f reference, facilities and staff at all times
acceptable to the Bank; and
 (b) the Project ImplementationUnit with term o freference, facilities and staff, including a
procurement officer and a financial officer, at all times acceptable to the Bank.
 4.     The Republic o f Indonesia shall adopt and, thereafter, apply inthe implementation o fthe
Project, the Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the
description o f (a) implementation arrangements, (b) the procurement procedures set forth inthe
Grant Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (c) reporting requirements, financial
management procedures and audit procedures as set forth inthe Grant Agreement, (d) the Project
Performance Indicators set forth inthe Grant Agreement, and shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions o f the Project Implementation Plan without the prior
agreement o f the Bank.
 5.     Incarrying out Component 2.1 ofthe Project, the Republic o fIndonesiashall, not later
than April 30, 2007, complete the purchase and installation o f new tidal stations and the
upgrading o f existing tidal stations.
 6.     The Republic o f Indonesia shall:
 (a) maintainpolicies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoingbasis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out o f
Component 2.1 o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof;
 (b) prepare, under terms o freference satisfactory to the Bank, and finish to the Bank, on or
about June 30 o f each year, commencing June 30,2007, a report integrating the results o f the
monitoring and evaluation activities performedpursuant to paragraph (a) o f this Section, on the
progress achieved inthe carrying out o f Component 2.1 o f the Project duringthe period
precedingthe date o f said report and setting out the measures recommendedto ensure the
efficient carrying out o f Component 2.1 o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
  (c) review with the Bank, by October 1o f each year, commencing October 1,2007, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to inthe Grant Agreement, and, thereafter,
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion o f Component 2.1 o f the Project
and the achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations o f
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1.      Countryand sector issues
The Straits o f Malacca and Singapore, situated between Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula, are
approximately 1,000 kilometers long, 300 kilometers wide at their north-west entrance, andjust
12 kilometers wide at their south-east entrance, between Singapore and Indonesia's Riau
Archipelago. They are shallow, with narrow channels, irregular tides and shiftingbottom
topography, and hence are hazardous to navigation for large ships. They are also rich innatural
resources on which many o f the coastal inhabitants depend.

Despite their difficult navigational features, the Straits are the shortest andhence the preferred
shippingroute betweenthe Indian Ocean and the SouthChina Sea, and for oil tankers trading
between the Persian Gulf and the fast-growing countries o f East Asia. Over 200 very large crude
carriers and container ships pass through the Straits each day, and traffic i s growing by 10
percent per year. There i s also much cross-Strait traffic which cuts through the major shipping
lanes.

Recent enhancements inmaritime safety infrastructure and regulatory mechanisms have
improved navigational safety and traffic flow. Singapore has an efficient radar-based ship
position monitoring system covering the Singapore Strait. In 1998, the three littoral states o f
Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia, and Republic o f Singapore jointly commissioned a mandatory
ship reporting system (STRAITREP) for the most congested 300 kilometer section o f the Straits
from One FathomBank to the Singapore Strait, which combines radar and automatic ship
identification and tracking.

These recent improvements to navigational aids and facilities have reduced the frequency o f ship
collisions, groundings and oil spills. However, several vessel collisions and groundings occurred
inthe past five years that caused significant oil spills, suchas those involvingthe `Natuna
Sea'(0ctober 2000) and the `Singapora Timur' (May 2001). Total compensation claims for the
`Natuna Sea' accident were over US$127 million, A recent economic valuation o f the natural
resources at risk inthe Malacca Straits estimated them at U$5 billion and identified more than 50
species o f marine coral and fish on the endangered species list. So, despite the improved
navigation system, the threat o f collisions and groundings and o f consequent environmental
damage i s still significant and, with rapid traffic growth, i s increasing.

The three littoral states have oil spill response capabilities and oil spill contingency plans,
including a cooperative response agreement. However, the several recent serious shipping
accidents highlighted the need for an improved ship management system, for quicker and more
accurate deployment o f spill response equipment and manpower, and for more efficient
institutional arrangements for dealing with oil spills. Inaddition to more rapid response,
immediate access to information on spill location and track and the environmental resources at
risk are also neededifthe impact o fany spillis to beminimized. Better communication is the
key to more effective oil spill response, but a more effective ship monitoring and control system
i s requiredto prevent major incidents, as well as to serve as early warning o f their potential
environmental damage and where such damage will occur.




                                                    1

Recent advances inmarine navigation, communications and environmental impact prediction
technologies offer an opportunity to upgrade existing systems to further reduce the risk o f ship
accidents inthe Straits and the environmental damage they cause. By providing mariners with
very accurate, real-time navigational information (depth, tide, and location o f sandbars) the new
technologies could also reduce shippingcosts by permitting safe navigation inpoor weather and
optimal loading and may even reduce marine insurance costs.

The best-proven o f the new marine navigation technologies i s the "Marine Electronic Highway"
(MEH).FirstinstalledinCanada's St. LawrenceRiver inthe early 1 9 9 0 ~aMEHcombines an
                                                                                ~
Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS), an Automated Identification System
(AIS), shore-based marine information databasesand advanced ship-to-shore communications.
The ECDIS involves the use o f Electronic Navigation Charts which replaces traditional paper
charts as the ship operator's primary navigationtool. It shows the ship's exact location, plus real-
time data on water depth, tidal flow and navigational risks. The AIS gives shore controllers
precise information on ship location, direction and speed, which help them avert collisions or
groundings. The same data used to compile the electronic navigation charts can predict the
direction and speed o f any oil spill movements and help to identify and deter ships that illegally
flushtheir bilges or dump other oily wastes. The foundation for this technology already exists in
the Straits and the littoral states are committed to its installation, however the cost to them of
developing and operating it, and the uncertainty o fwhether they can recover those costs, has
deterred them from making the investment. An external catalyst is needed to bringabout the
new institutional arrangements betweennational governments, the InternationalMaritime
Organization and the ship operators that are neededto make the system work.

2.     Rationale for Bank and GlobalEnvironmental Facility (GEF) involvement

The rationale for Bank involvement i s that the Bank has a uniquecombination o f convening
power and technical skills that can helpthe littoral states overcome the barriers that have
prevented implementation o f the system untilnow. The Bank can facilitate collaboration
between the InternationalMaritime Organization, the international institution responsible for
promoting environmentally-sound marine navigation, the InternationalHydrographic
Organization, responsible for marine mapping, major international ship-owner representative
organizations and the governments o f the three littoral states. Financially, it can access the
resources o f GEF, which, inits InternationalWaters Focal Area, can provide grant or
concessional finding to help countries address major environmental threats to shared water
bodies, such as the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore.

The Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject is consistent with one o fthe major
objectives o f the GEF's International Waters Operational Program 10, as it will overcome the
barriers to the adoption o fbest-practice technology inmarine navigation and pollution control in
the Straits, and thereby reduce the risk o f contamination o f an international water body. As the
project i s a partnership between governments, the GEF and the private sector, it i s also consistent
with one ofthe GEF's key strategic objectives, to promotepublic-private partnerships that
benefit the global environment.




                                                   2

GEF support for the Project is furtherjustified becausethe Straits o fMalacca and Singapore i s a
zone o fhighmarinebiological diversity, rich inthe marine fauna and flora that are characteristic
o f tropical estuarine environments. The abundance o f sea-grass beds, mangrove swamps, coral
reefs, and wetlands, enriches the associated coastal marine environments, which are also
stopovers for migratory birds on seasonaltransition. Natural resource-related activities, such as
fishing and coastal tourism, are key to the regional economy. By catalyzing the development o f
a Marine Electronic Highway that will protect these natural resources, the GEF can help achieve
global and local environmental benefits andpoverty reduction, which i s also the Bank's core
objective.

3.       Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The Marine Electronic Highway (MEH)Demonstration Project is the first (demonstration) phase
o f a proposed two-phase program to establish a MEHinthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore.
The DemonstrationProject's objective is to determine ifa full-scale MEHfor the Straits is
economically justified and financially feasible. Ifthe MEHi s successful inthe Straits o f Malacca
and Singapore, it has the potential to be extended to the whole shippingroute from Europe and
the Middle East to East Asia. Other East Asian countries have already expressed interest insuch
an extension and are awaiting the outcome o f the demonstration phase before taking specific
actions on extension. There is also interest from states that are littoral to other major sea lanes in
applying the MEHprinciples and methods to their own regions.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1.       Lending instrument

The Bank mobilized co-financing for this project inthe form o f a Global Environment Facility
grant. This i s the most appropriate co-financing instrument since: (a) the feasibility o f the Marine
Electronic Highway (MEH) system that the Project will demonstrate and test i s unproven, and
(b) the MEHsystem promises to deliver significant global as well as local environmental
benefits. The bulk o f the non-Bank co-financingwill be provided by the commercial shipping
industry, which is appropriate since it stands to gain commercial benefit fiom a successful MEH
system.

Commitment o f the littoral states and other essential participants inthe Project has been
confirmed by the signing o f two Memoranda on September 8,2005:


0    a Memorandum of Understanding among the three littoral states, Indonesia, Malaysia,
     Singapore, and the International Maritime Organization. Articles IIIA and IIIB o f this
     Memorandum show the roles and responsibilities o f the International Maritime Organization
     and the Republic o f Indonesia (through the Ministry o f Environment) respectively, and;
0    a Memorandum on Arrangements among the three littoral states, Indonesia, Malaysia,
     Singapore, and the International Maritime Organization, the International Hydrographic
     Organization, the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners, and the
     International Chamber o f Shipping.This Memorandum indicates the arrangements for the
     implementation o f specific activities.



                                                  3

2.       Program objective and phases

The program's objective i s to reduce the user costs and environmental damage o f marine
navigation through the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore (the Straits). These objectives will be
achieved by developing a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) for the entire Straits
(approximately 1,000 kilometers) which will: (a) reduce the frequency o f ship collisions inthe
Straits' busy and congested sea lanes and port arrival and departure areas; (b) make marine
navigation inthe Straits feasible more often inpoor weather; (c) allow ships intransit to optimize
their loads for passagethrough the Straits; (d) facilitate more effective monitoring o f vessel
operations, such as illegal bilge water releases, thus deterring such environmentally-damaging
behavior; and (e) generate more resources and increase capacity for environmental protection o f
the Straits and its surrounding coasts.

This first phase Project will facilitate the program's objective by: (a) developing and testinga
demonstrationMEHsystem for the most congested 300 kilometer section o f the Straits; and (b)
based on the results o f these tests and on international marine navigation law, assessingthe
financial,  economic, and legal feasibility and environmentalbenefits o f developing a MEH
system for the entire Straits. If,based on the results o f this assessment, the three participating
littoral states and representatives o f the international shippingindustry decide to develop such a
system, the project will prepare the design of, and financing and institutional planfor, a MEH
system covering the entire Straits.

The expected duration ofthe MEHDemonstration Project is four years and its total cost is about
US$17 million. The Project's implementationwill be coordinated and technically supported by
the InternationalMaritime Organization, on behalf of the littoral states. The Governments o f
Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, primarily through their ministries responsible for marine
navigation and the environment, will collaborate on and steer the project. The trigger for moving
from phase one to phase two o f the program to develop a Marine Electronic Highway for the
entire Straits o f Malacca and Singapore will be a decisionby the concerned governments and
representatives o f the commercial shipping industry. The cost o f such a system i s not known at
this time, butwill be estimated by the Project. The process o fdesigningthe Full-scale MEH
system will take account o f the rapid advances inmarine navigation technology that are currently
occurring.

3.        Project development and global environment objectives and key indicators

The Project's development objective i s to assist the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Republic o f Singapore and representatives o f some o f the large commercial ship owners that use
the Strait o f Malacca and the Strait o f Singapore, to collectively decide whether to establish a
marine electronic highway for the entire length o f the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore. The
indicator o f the Project's success is that these key stakeholders reach a decision on this issue.

The Project's global environment objective i s to improve maritime safety and reduce
environmental damage to the globally-significant shared natural resources o f the Straits o f
Malacca and Singapore. It will not be possible to determine with certainty ifit has achieved this
objective inits short life. An evaluation o f the Marine Electronic Highway demonstration



                                                     4

system's technical performance and the project stakeholders' decision whether to maintain
and/or expand it will indicate ifthis objective i s likely to be achieved inthe longer term.


4.       Project components

The Projecthas five components (see Annex 4 for a detailed description). The total Project cost
i s US$17 million, o f which US$8.3 million will be financed by the Global Environment Facility,
US$6.0 million by private sector participants (ship-owners), and US$2.7 millionby the three
littoral states. The InternationalMaritime Organization (IMO) will manage all components of the
project. The Republic o f Indonesia will execute the Tide and Current Facilities o f Component 2.

Component 1: MEHSystem Design, Coordination and Operation (US$2.88 million)

This component will provide for project management by the I M O onbehalfo fthe participating
states, coordination o f the design, development and operation o f the MEHdemonstration system
and also provide for key technical inputsto the project. The main functions will be performedby
the staff o f a Project Management Office (PMO), which will operate under the responsibility o f
the IMO. The PMO will be located on the island o f Batam, Indonesia, almost directly across the
Straits from Singapore. It will be co-located with IndonesianGovernment's marine management
bureauthat i s responsible for the Indonesianwaters o f the MEHdemonstration section and will
be housed infacilities provided and serviced by the Government o f Indonesia.

The major tasks to be undertaken within this component will be:

         1.      Svstem Planning and International Maritime OrganizationManagement
                                                                   -

         (a)     Management o f the operational aspects o f the Project by the International
         Maritime Organization.
         (b)     Development o f a system for the management and on-line access and storage o f
         data and information, including links to the MEHData Centers and financial and
         economic assessments.
         (c)     Development o f criteria and measurable indicators for Project performance
         assessment, including the carrying out o f a baseline survey to compile and analyze data
         and information covering a period o f about thirty years up to the inception o f the Project,
         as a basis for evaluationo f the impact o f the MEHsystem.

         2.      Proiect Management Office
         (a)     Strengthening the capacity o f the staff o fthe Project Management Office,
         including relevant training.
         (b)     Establishment o f MEHData Centers inthe Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and
         the Republic o f Singapore, including provision o frelevant training to the staff o fthe
         MEHData Centers inoperation andmanagement ofthe MEHsystemandindata
         handling and exchange.

         3.      Proiect Steering Committee Support. Carrying out o fmeetings o f the Project
         Steering Committee (PSC), the Technical Committees (TCs) and the Working Groups
         (WGs), includingtravel and accommodations for participants.



                                                    5

Incremental Operating Costs are included inthe above component and covers costs which would
not have been incurred without the project and includes travel andper diem by staff o f the PMO,
PSC, WGs and TCs, communications, consumables, advertising o fbidding, printingand
publication o f Project information, rental o f meeting facilities, but excludes staff salaries.

Component2: MEHSystemDevelopment(US$7.04 million)

This component will provide for productionofthe navigational information onwhich the MEH
system will be based, and its incorporation into real-time Electronic Navigation Charts that ship
operators will be able to use to navigate with precision through the MEHdemonstration section
o f the Straits. These activities will be coordinated by the PMO, under the direction o f the IMO,
and comprise the following sub components:

        1.       Tide and Current Facilities. Tidal and current monitoring on the Republic o f
        Indonesia's coast o f the Strait o f Malacca, including provision o f relevant equipment.

        2.       Hydroa-aphic Survey. (a) Carrying out o f a hydrographic survey within the
        designated traffic separation scheme inthe Strait o f Malacca within the Project Area and
        (b) Provision of training to the hydrographic surveyors o fthe hydro-oceanographic
        services o f the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic o f Singapore.

        3.       Electronic Navigation Charts. Production o f highresolution electronic navigation
        charts for the Project Area, including provision o f relevant computer software licenses to
        the Republic o f Indonesia and to Malaysia.

        4.       Information Exchange System. Establishment o f a MEHinformation exchange
        system, including data servers, data exchange protocols and training o f staff indata
        exchange.

Component3: Ship-boardEquipmentandCommunications(US$6.00 million)

Carrying out o f testing o f the demonstration MEHsystem by about 160 ships fitted with type-
approved electronic chart display and information systems, including internet connectivity. This
component will be executed by the owners o f at least 160 large oil tankers and container ships
that regularly transit the Straits, and will be facilitated by two major ship owner representative
organizations, the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO)
and the InternationalChamber o f Shipping (ICs). With the facilitation o f INTERTANKO and
ICs, the ship owners will arrange that, by the end o f year three, at least 160 o f their ships that
regularly transit the Straits are fitted with internationally-approved Electronic Chart Display and
Information System and Automatic Identification System and have internet connectivity-these
elements comprise the suite o f technical equipment required to use all the elements o f the MEH
demonstration system. Inaddition, the ship owners will ensure that, once the MEH
demonstration system i s operational, all o f the 160 ships which are so equipped always use it
when transiting the Straits and provide detailed and timely feed-back on its performance to the
PMO and later to the independent experts tasked with evaluating the demonstration systemand




                                                     6

assessing the costs, benefits and legalhancial feasibility o f expanding it to cover the entire
Straits (see Component 5).

Component 4: Marine Environment Protection (US$O.S5 million)

This component will be executedjointly by the institutions inthe littoral states that are
responsible for marine navigation and environmental management and the International
Maritime Organization and will consist o f the following activities:

        1.       Oil Spill and Sand Wave Models. Carrying out o f a modeling and analyses of: (i)
        the likely movement o f oil spills originating inthe Project Area, and (ii) sand wave
                                                                                     the
        formation and movement inthe Project Area.

        2.       Sensitive Area Mapping. Research and development o f options for providing
        real-time geo-referenced environmental protectioninformation to mariners navigating in
        the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore and for conservation and coastal resources
        management and mapping of sensitive areas.

        3.       Emergency Response Systems. Carrying out o f simulated oil and chemical spill
        emergency response exercises to determine the cost-effectiveness and efficiency o f the
        MEHsystem inthe event ofchemical andoil spillincidentsfrom ships.

 Component 5: Information Dissemination, Evaluation and Scale-up Plan (US$0.23 m)

 This component will be managed by the IMO through the PMO, and will produce the following
 outputs:

        1.       Website and Publicity. Production and dissemination o f information through the
        Internet on the MEHsystem, including technical reports, progress reports and a
        newsletter, and carrying out o f national and regional workshops and seminars to provide
        information and seek feedback on the benefits and applicability o f the MEHsystem.

        2.       Evaluation. (a) Assessment o f the cost and benefits o f the establishment and use
        o f the MEHsystem interms ofmaritime safety and marine environment protection,
        including (i)  the development of criteria andmeasurable indicators for the socio-
        economic assessment of the MEH system, and (ii)      the carrying out o f a socio-economic
        survey to evaluate the benefits o f the MEHsystem; (b) (i)   Carrying out o f an assessment
        o f the technical functionalities o f the MEHsystem, including system performance, (ii)
        Carrying out o f a continuous monitoring o f new and potential technologies that could be
        linked to the MEHsystem or enhance its performance, including the carrying out o f
        technical evaluations on the new technologies to determine their suitability, value added
        contribution, enhancing performance and cost effectiveness, (c) Carrying out o f an
        assessment o f the MEHsystem, including institutional and legal aspects, and (d)
        Consolidation of the technical, institutional, legal, financial and economic assessmentso f
        the MEHsystem, including the implementation o f the Project, and development o f a
        managing tool blueprint.



                                                   7

        3.      System Development. Carrying out o f marketing strategies to package and
        market the MEHsystem and its marine information and other products, and the services
        it could provide.


5.      Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

The concept o f a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) was initiated inCanada inthe early 1990s
with the applicationo f digital technology to navigation, particularly inthe development o f
Electronic Navigation Charts (ENCs) and the Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems
(ECDISs). The core o f the Canadian version o f the MEHwas the integration and
interconnectiono f the ECDIS and the Automatic Identification Systemwith powerful shore-
based databasesto provide a basis for optimized shippingtraffic management decisions.

Since 1995, the ECDIS has beenwidely deployed inCanada inthe Great Lakes and the St.
Lawrence River coi-ridor with considerable success, especially inassisting with navigating
through treacherous waters even inheavy fog conditions. However, standards for ENCs and the
unavailability o f type-approved ECDIS duringthis early period led to the use o f non-conforming
ECDIS by the Canadian shipping sector. Thus, many Canadian ships plying the Great Lakes and
the St. Lawrence Seaway had difficulty inswitching to standardized technology subsequent to
the commercial launching o f the first type-approved ECDIS in 1999, and the wider adoption o f
the International Hydrographic Organization's S-57 (electronic chart standard). Although the
full MEHconcept remains to berealized, the pioneering efforts inCanada have ledto the
widespread adoption o f ENCs and the ECDIS. Since 1999, several type-approved ECDIS have
appeared on the market, and many national hydrographic agencies have the capacity to produce
approved S-57 electronic navigation charts.

The utility o f ENCs combined with ECDIS i s now well accepted inthe maritime industry as a
means to increase the safety o f vessels and improve their commercial perfonnance, particularly
inareaswith restrictedunder keel clearance andwater depth. Placingthese technologies inthe
framework o f the MEHsystem will provide greater benefits not only for the shippingindustry
but also for the marine environment sector. Fromthe marine environment protection standpoint,
the reduction ofvessel accidents and online availability o fmarine informationcould leadto
improvedmonitoring and lower response time to marine environmental incidents, and lower
clean-up costs and better quantification o f damages, as well as enhanced management o f the
coastal and marine resources inthe Straits.

6.      Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The alternative o fmaking incremental improvements to existing navigational facilities and ship
control systems inthe Straits was considered but rejected because it has very limitedpotential for
reducing ship-related environmental damages or for improving navigational efficiency compared
with the proposed MEHsystem.

New technology i s now under development that would enhance the value o f the MEH. This
technology involves usingreal time satellite monitoring o f the sea bed and depth of water, with
accuracy to within one meter. This, along with the application o f real time tide and weather



                                                 8

information to mathematical models, would give vessel operators a much higher level o f
confidence to load their ships with a reduced under keel clearance than an estimate o f the
available water depth based on hydrographic surveys. However this technology is not yet proven
and its cost i s unknown. The concept o f the MEHi s to make maximumuse o f available
technology and not use it as an experimental application o f new technology. Although new
technologies have beenrejected for now, their development will be monitored duringthe MEH
Demonstration Project and their viability reassessedbefore design o f the Full-scale MEH
project.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1.      Partnershiparrangements

The demonstrationphase of the Project will be managed by the International Maritime
Organization, a UnitedNations organization with a global mandate for navigation safety and
marine environmental protection. The governments o fthe Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and
Republic o f Singapore have signed aMemorandum of Understanding that defines their relative
responsibilities under the project. Other partners inthe project, that have signed aMemorandum
on Arrangements, are INTERTANKO (representing the owners o f tanker vessels usingthe
Straits), the International Chamber o f Shippingrepresenting the interests o f owners o f container
vessels usingthe Straits, and the International Hydrographic Organization, the intergovernmental
organization with responsibility for the quality o fhydrographic information included inmarine
charts. Discussions are under way with other national governments that have expressed an
interest inparticipating inthe Project.

2.       Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The Project Steering Committee (PSC) established duringthe project preparationwill continue to
act as the overall regional body to implement the MEHDemonstrationProject. The three littoral
states o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore are permanent members o f the PSC. The PSC will
participate inthe annual GEF Project ImplementationReview.

There are two grants to support the MEHproject. The InternationalMaritime Organizationi s the
Recipient o f a US$6.86 million Grant and will be responsible for the management o f the project
and all components except the sub-component on tide and current facilities. The second Grant i s
to the Republic o f Indonesia for US$1.44million. The Office o f the Deputy Minister for Nature
Conservation Enhancement and Environmental Destruction Control o f the Ministry o f
Environment i s the coordinating Ministry for the Indonesianpart o f the Project. The Directorate
General o f Sea Transport o f the Ministry of Transport is the implementing agency. A Project
Management Office will be established to administer and manage the project on site. Itwill be
sited inBatam in Sumatra, Indonesia and will be hosted by the Republic o f Indonesia.




                                                  9

3.      Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

The objective o f the Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) Demonstration Project i s to determine
whether the Full-scale MEHwill be technically, politically, operationally, and financially viable.
Monitoringand evaluation o f the progress and outcomes o f the MEHDemonstration Project will
be an important contribution to a decision whether to proceed with the Full-scale MEH. In
addition, there will be a mid-termreview and annual reviews by the Project Steering Committee
(PSC), bi-annual internal reviews on project implementationas well as the results and outputs.
The PSC will participate inthe annual GEF Project ImplementationReview. The findings o f
these reviews will be used to assess project progress and the need to modify approaches and the
mobilization o f resources.

The key performance indicators as shown inAnnex 3 will be usedto assess the outputs and
impacts o f the MEHDemonstration Project.

The Project Management Office (PMO) will be responsible for preparing terms o f reference,
contracting and supervising the consultants who will undertake the basic monitoring and
evaluation tasks. One o f the main results o f the MEHDemonstration Project will be an
assessment o f the viability o f the Full-scale MEHand o f the conditions necessary for its
successful implementation and operation. Although the assessment will be made by consultants
contracted by and working under terms o f reference prepared by the PMO, it i s the PSC that will
have final responsibility for all conclusions o f the monitoring and evaluation studies.

4.      Sustainability and Replicability

Although the Full-scale MEHsystem is limitedto the area o f the Straits o f Malacca and
Singapore, there is an intention that the scope should be extended to the whole o f the sea-lanes
between the Suez Canal and the major ports o f East Asia. There are other sea lanes with a high
density o f shippingwhere the principles o f the MEHcould be applied, including the Black Sea
and Bosphorus, the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and EnglishChannel, the River Plate, the Red Sea,
the approaches to the Panama Canal and the St. Lawrence Seaway (where the concept o f a MEH
was first applied).

5.      Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

The MEHDemonstrationProject's risks to the development and establishment o f the Full-scale
MEHarethat the private sector will notbewilling to commit, finance andimplement the
activities designed to develop and establish the MEHsystem, as well as the lack o f commitment
from governments to engage insuchpartnership arrangements. However, the implementation o f
the two stages o fthe MEHmeans that ample time and effort will beprovided for the
development and establishment o f the Full-scale MEH.




                                                   10

              Potential risks                                         RiskMitigation                          :sting
    This is amulti-national project,           During the Project preparation phase, the three states          S
    requiring cooperation among states that    involved inthe Project have demonstrated a high level of
    have not been consistent inmaintaining     cooperation and coordination o f their respective activities.
    such relations. Inaddition, the MEH        Their commitment, as well as the commitment ofall other
    covers international waters, where the     participating organizations, is further codified inthe
    authoritative institution i s the IMO.     Memorandum of Understanding and the Memorandum on
    The activities o f shipping in             Arrangements, which have been signed by all parties
    international waters are subject to a      concerned. Other agreementswill be developed inthe
    large number o f conventions and           course o f project implementation, which will cover
    agreementsthat are administered by the     partnerships with various agencies, organizations and
    IMO, however it has few powers o f         groups to carry out specific activities under the five Project
    enforcement o f these, other than by       components. These agreements will spell out the specific
    persuasion and cooperation with            commitments of each o f the parties whose participation is
    industry.                                  essential to the success o f the Project.                     -
    The MEHDemonstration Project will          The requiredmanagerial capacity and experience will be          M
    involve a large number o f agencies, the   provided by the I M O as project manager. The strength o f
    procurement o f a large volume o f         the I M O inthis role was demonstrated during the Project
    highly sophisticated equipment and the     preparation phase, as well as innumerous similar projects
    integration o f several different          that depend on international cooperation of a group o f
    technologies.                              maritime littoral statesintheir mutual interest. The day-to-
                                               day management o f the Project will be provided by a
                                               specially recruitedproject management team under the
                                               supervision o f I M O and guidance o f the Project Steering
                                               Committee including the four Technical Committees and
                                               two ad hoc Workine Grouvs.                                    -
    The MEHDemonstration Project is the        Since the required software and associated models does not      M
    first to implement a coordinated set o f   involve any new or innovative technology, this risk is
    marine operational and environmental       considered minimal and not exceptional for a project based
    tools and as such i s subject to the risks on electronic procedures.
    associatedwith such demonstration
    projects, with the principal
    technological riskbeing inthe
    provision o f the needed software and
    models.
    The Project is filly dependent on          The three littoral states, INTERTANKO and ICs have              M
    support from the shipping industry and,    already committed to their financial contribution and these
    inparticular, onthe willingness ofthe      commitments have been confirmed inthe M O U and the
    ship operators who make most use o f       MOA, respectively. INTERTANKOandICs have
    the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore to   committed that their members will supply at least 60 and
    accept MEH-user charges and to invest      100respectively, adequately equipped vessels. On-going
    inequippingtheir vesselsto use the         consultations with representatives o f other shipping
    MEH.                                       interests will be maintained inthe expectation that further
                                               commitments to equipping ships to participate inthe
                                               demonstration project will be made. Importantly, owners
                                               will continue to have the choice o fnot using the MEHand
                                               passing the Straits completely, free o f any charges.

                                               The cost o f the MEHDemonstrationProject may exceed              S
                                               the estimates inthis Project Appraisal Document. Korea
                                               and Japanhave already expressed an interest in
                                               contributing expert personnel, equipment, and/or financial
                                               resources for the Project.                                    -
Overall RiskRating                                                                                             M
RiskRating-H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk),M(Modest Risk),N(Negligible or Low Risk)



                                                        11

6.     Grant conditions and covenants

6.1 Grant Agreementwiththe InternationalMaritimeOrganization

ConditionofBoardPresentation

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the Republic o f Indonesiahave concluded a
Memorandum o f Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, specifying the functions; staffing, including
support staff; facilities including office space to be provided to the Project Management Office in
Batam, as well as who will provide the required staff, facilities, and operating costs.

ConditionsofEffectiveness

(a)  The Global Environment Facility Trust FundGrant Agreement shall havebeenexecuted on
     behalf o f the Republic o f Indonesiaand the Bank.
(b)  The I M O shall have provided to the Bank a Project management memorandum, acceptable
     to the Bank.
(c)  The Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, shall havebeenadopted by the
     I M O and endorsed by the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic o f Singapore.

Conditionsfor ContinuedImplementation

1.   The I M O shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Project Steering Committee shall
     be maintaineduntil completion o f the Project.
2.   The IMO shall, inaccordance with the provisions o f the Memorandum o fAgreement,
     establish by December 31, 2006, and, thereafter, maintain untilthe completion o f the
     Project, the Project Management Office, with term o f reference and staff and at all times
     acceptable to the Bank, including a Project Manager.
3.   The I M O shall, untilcompletion o f the Project, maintain at its headquarters a procurement
     officer, acceptable to the Bank.
4.   The IMO shall prepare and furnishto the Bank a Project management memorandum,
     acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the management tasks to be carried out by the
     Recipient under the Project, including the estimated cost o f each task.
5.   The I M O shall adopt and, thereafter apply inthe implementation o f the Project, the Project
     Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the descriptionof: (a)
     implementation arrangements, (b) the procurement procedures set forth inthe Grant
     Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (c) reporting requirements, financial
     management procedures and audit procedures as set forth inthe Grant Agreement, (d) the
     Project Performance Indicators set forth inthe Grant Agreement, and shall not amend,
     suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions o f the Project ImplementationPlan
     without the prior agreement o f the Bank.
6.   The I M O shall cause the Project Steering Committee to:
     (a) furnishto the Bank for its review and comments not later than September 30 ineach
     year, commencing September 30, 2007, and untilcompletion of the Project, draft revisions
     to the Project ImplementationPlan for the components o f the Project not yet carried out,
     with emphasis on the activities to be carried out inthe following calendar year, including



                                                   12

   the scope o f the activities to be carried out, cost estimates, time based implementation
   schedules, financing plan, budget arrangements, and the relevant procurement plan; and
   (b) finalize the revisedProject ImplementationPlanbyNovember 30 ineach year,
   commencingNovember 30,2007, taking into account the comments o f the Bank thereon.
7. Incarrying out Component 2.3 ofthe Project, the IMO shall provide allrequiredtechnical
   assistance to the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic o f Singapore to ensure
   the production o f the electronic navigational charts by March 31,2008.
8.  Incarrying out Component 3 ofthe Project, the IMOshallprovide the requiredtechnical
    assistance to ensure that the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners and
   the International Chamber o f Shippinghave each, by December 31,2008, at least 60 and
    100 ships, respectively, equipped with type-approved electronic chart display and
    information systems, including internet connectivity.
9.  Incarrying out Component 5 ofthe Project, the IMO shall:
    (a) by May 31, 2010, furnishto the Bank the draft final report on the technical, financial,
    economic, and legal feasibility o f a scaled-up Marine Electronic Highway system for the
    entire Straits o f Malacca and Singapore; and
    (b) by August, 2010, taking into account the comments ofthe Bank, furnish to potential
   participants andbeneficiaries o f the full-scale Marine Electronic Highway system the
    finalized feasibility study, including the design o f an operational and financing plan and an
   institutional structure for the scaled-up Marine Electronic Highway system.
10. The IMO shall:
    (a) maintainpolicies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
    ongoing basis, inaccordance with the indicators set the Grant Agreement, the carrying out
    the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof;
    (b)prepare, under terms o freference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnishto the Bank, on
    or about June 30 o f each year, commencing June 30,2007, a report integrating the results
    o f the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the Grant Agreement on
    the progress achieved inthe carrying out o f the Project duringthe period precedingthe date
    o f said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
    out o f the Project and the achievement o fthe objectives thereof duringthe period following
    such date; and
    (c) review with the Bank, by September 30 o f each year, commencing September 30,2007,
    or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to the Grant Agreement, and,
    thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion o f the Project and
    the achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions andrecommendations
    o f the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
11. The I M O shall:
    (a) prepare, under terms o f reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on
    or about September 30, 2008, a report integrating the results o f the monitoring and
    evaluation activities performedpursuant to the Grant Agreement, on the progress achieved
    inthe carrying out o fthe Project, includingan assessment ofthe commitment ofthe
    partners inthe Project, the interest o f other countries inthe scaled-up marine electronic
   highway, evaluation o f new technologies and their potential applicability and inclusionin
    the marine electronic highway, and determination o f the need for Project restructuring, if
    any.




                                                 13

     (b) review with the Bank and with the parties to the Memorandum on Arrangements, by
     December 31,2008, the report referred to inthe Grant Agreement, and, thereafter, take all
     measures required to ensure the efficient completion o f the Project and the achievement o f
     the objectives thereof.

6.2 GrantAgreementwith the Republicof Indonesia

Conditionof BoardPresentation

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the Republic o f Indonesiahave concluded a
Memorandum o f Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, specifying the functions; staffing, including
support staff; facilities including office space to be provided to the Project Management Office in
Batam, as well as who will provide the required staff, facilities, and operating costs.

Conditionsof Effectiveness

(a)  The GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement shall have been executed on behalf o f the
     International Maritime Organization and the Bank.
(b)  The Project Coordination Unit shall havebeen established
(c)  The Project Implementation Unit shall have been established
(d)  The Republic o f Indonesia shall have established auditing arrangements, acceptable to the
     Bank, including provisions to make the audit report available to the public.
(e)  The Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, shall havebeenadopted by the
     Republic o f Indonesia.

Conditionsfor ContinuedImplementation

     The Republic o f Indonesia shall, untilcompletion o f the Project, remain a member of, and
     an active participant in, the Project Steering Committee.
     The Republic o f Indonesia shall, inaccordance with the Memorandum o f Agreement, cause
     to be established by December 31, 2006, and, thereafter, maintained untilthe completion o f
     the Project, the Project Management Office, with facilities and support staff at all times
     acceptable to the Bank.
     The Republic o fIndonesia shall establish, and thereafter maintain untilcompletion ofthe
     Project:
     (a) the Project Coordination Unitwith terms o f reference, facilities and staff at all times
     acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b) the Project ImplementationUnitwith term o freference, facilities and staff, including a
     procurement officer and a financial officer, at all times acceptable to the Bank.
     The Republic o f Indonesia shall adopt and, thereafter, apply inthe implementation o f the
     Project, the Project ImplementationPlan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the
     descriptiono f (a) implementation arrangements, (b) the procurement procedures set forth
     inthe Grant Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (c) reporting
     requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth inthe
     Grant Agreement, (d) the Project Performance Indicators set forth inthe Grant Agreement,
     and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions o f the Project
     ImplementationPlan without the prior agreement o f the Bank.


                                                   14

5.     Incarrying out Component 2.1 ofthe Project, the Republic ofIndonesiashall, not later than
      April 30,2007, complete the purchase and installationofnew tidal stations and the
      upgrading o f existingtidal stations.
6.    The Republic o f Indonesiashall:
       (a) maintain policies andprocedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
      ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out o f
       Component 2.1 o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof;
       (b) prepare, under terms o freference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnishto the Bank, on
      or about June 30 o f eachyear, commencing June 30, 2007, a report integrating the results
      o f the monitoring and evaluation activities performedpursuant to paragraph (a) o f this
       Section, on the progress achieved inthe carrying out o f Component 2.1 o fthe Project
      duringthe periodprecedingthe date o fsaid report and setting out the measures
      recommendedto ensure the efficient carrying out o f Component 2.1 o f the Project and the
      achievement o f the objectives thereof duringthe period following such date; and
      (c) review with the Bank, by October 1 o f each year, commencing October 1,2007, or such
      later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to inthe Grant Agreement, and,
      thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion o f Component 2.1
       o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
      recommendations o f the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.       Economic and financial analyses

The Full-scale Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) system has a very higheconomic rate o f
return, with a pay-back period o f less than one year. The probable savings inship operating
costs inthe first year o f operation are several times greater than the total investment cost o f the
project. Evenwhen the annual operating and maintenance costs and future investmentcosts in
new hydrographic surveys are included, the economic rate o freturn is inexcess o f 100percent
(details inAnnex 9). This indicates that the cost savings to ship operators inthe first year o f
operation o f the project are expected to exceed the total investment costs.

No financial analysis has yet been carried out, since the financial feasibility o fthe Full-scale
MEHis one ofthe activities to beundertakenduringthis MEHDemonstrationProject. The
financial feasibility depends on the operators o f ships, who will benefit from the reduced under-
keel requirements o f the Straits, being prepared to pay for the service that will enable them to
take advantage o f the reduced clearance.

2.       Technical

From a technical standpoint, the critical aspects inthe development o f the MEHsystemwill be
the integrationo fmaritime safety technologies, marine environment protection systems and the
establishment o f the managing tool (the full Technical Specifications of the MEHinthe Straits
o f Malacca and Singapore i s available inthe project file). The risk associated with project
implementationcould be minimizedby identifying and addressing the technical, socio-economic,
financial and legal issues and by quantifying and promoting the benefits o f the MEHsystem.



                                                   15

The process will be a participatory approach and this will provide the opportunity for the
relevant stakeholders to own the development o f the MEH systemandpropel it to its completion.
The co-operation initiated duringthe project preparation (PDF Block B phase) will be
strengthened by the participatory approach and serve as an impetus to stronger public-private
sector partnership andbroader clientele (littoral States, user States, the private sector and
technology providers and users).

3.      Fiduciary

Financial Management (Annex 7). From a financial management perspective, the MEH
DemonstrationProject i s considered a low risk project. The financial management arrangements
for the MEHDemonstration Project activities implemented by the International Maritime
Organization (IMO) are acceptable. As a specialized agency o f the UnitedNations, the I M O
follows acceptable accounting andreporting practices inaccordance with the UnitedNations
SystemAccounting Standards. IMOreceived anunqualified opinion on its most recent financial
statements. IMOi s a reputable United Nations agency with extensive experience in
implementing donor-financed projects. The nature o f the Project procurement (i.e., a relatively
few contracts, each large insize) and resulting simplified accounting andreporting also
contribute to the low risk rating. Since about 15-20percent o f the grants will be usedfor the
procurement o f equipment, physical inspection to confirm the proper use o f Project funds will be
possible.

For the Republic o f Indonesia component the Ministryo f Transport will assign its own staff as
the financial officer for the Project, who will support the preparationo f the Project interimun-
audited financial statement o f the Project on quarterly basis. The payment verification will be
conducted under the finance unit o f Directorate General Sea Transport o f Ministryo f Transport.

Procurement (Annex 8). A Procurement Capacity Assessment has been conducted as part o f the
project preparation inaccordance with the Revised Instructions for carrying out Assessment o f
Agency's Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement (2002). The objective i s to evaluate
the capability o f the implementing agencies and the adequacy o f the procurement and related
systems inplace, assess the risks, develop an action planto enhance capacity andminimize risks,
and, to propose a suitable supervision plan (the full Procurement Capacity Assessment i s
available inthe project file).

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) i s responsible for the US$6.86 million Grant and
will undertake procurement o f goods and consultancy packages andprovide overall management
of the Project for the three littoral states. The I M O system i s established and functioning in
accordance with the applicable United Nations rules and regulations.

The Republic o f Indonesia is responsible for the US$1.44 million Grant. The Office o f the
Deputy Minister for Nature Conservation Enhancement and Environmental Destruction Control
o f the Ministryo f Environment i s the coordinating Ministry for the Project. The Directorate
General o f Sea Transport (DGST) o f the Ministryo f Transport i s the implementing agency and
will undertake all the procurement required for Indonesianpart o fthe Project, namely four goods
packages (Tidal Stations, DGPS Base Station, two AIS Base Stations, and Ocean Buoys).



                                                    16

The Assessment ratedthe project risk as "average" due to the following identified aspects: (i)
procurement activities consist o f a limited number o f packages, about nine goods procurement
and about 19 consultancy services; (ii)   six o f the packages for procurement o f goods and non
consulting services will be conducted through international competitive bidding and three
packages will be procured through shopping procedures; and (iii)      Technical Committees will be
established, with representatives o f each o f the implementing agencies, who will prepare the
specifications o f the procurement packages.

The actions to mitigate the risks include: (i)  the prior review thresholds are set lower than the
maximum thresholds for average risk projects; (ii) Procurement Plan for the Project has been
                                                       the
established and will be updated when necessary; (iii)Procurement Officer will be appointed in
                                                          a
M O T and the Officer incharge o f procurement within I M O will provide coordination and
management o f procurement activities; (iv) all the technical specifications andbidding
documents will be preparedwell in advance o fprocurement implementation by the I M O and
MOT; and (v) a set o f disclosure policies to increase public accountability o f the Project will be
adopted.

4.       Social

The Project is expected to generate coastal development and environmental benefits for the
littoral states; global environment benefits by reducing the pollution o f shared marine water
bodies; and economic benefits for the international shippingindustry and their billions o f
customers. It will further result inreduced vulnerability to catastrophic pollution for the coastal
states and the communities depending on the Straits' marine and coastal resources for their
livelihoods. The technological innovations associated with the Project's implementation and its
information generation and sharing aspects, inparticular, are expected to significantly contribute
to improved environmental stewardship and natural resource management capacity across the
three littoral states. No direct or indirect adverse social impacts are expected.

5.       Environment

To the extent that no direct or indirect adverse impacts to the environment are associated with
this Project, ithasbeenclassifiedas anenvironmental category "Cy'project. The Projectis
expected to have important positive environmental impacts on the Straits and the coastline o f the
littoral states. The approach proposedunder the Project will seek to significantly reduce marine
pollution risks and pressures inthe Straits' area ina way that i s environmentally sustainable.
Moreover, as an integral part o f the Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) architecture an
Environmental Management and Protection System(EMPS) will be designed and implemented
for the demonstration area.

The EMPS component o fthe MEHsystem is an amalgamationof several models and systems.
This MEHDemonstrationProject will evaluate several EMP models and systems for integration
into the MEHsystem including meteorological, oceanographic and environmental information
systems. The EMPS that will be evaluated are: (i)      a 3-Dimensional hydrodynamic model; (ii)    an
oil spill trajectory and fate model; (iii)coastal and ocean monitoring systems (e.g., tides and
current); (iv) environmental impact assessment; (v) an oil spill damage assessment model; (vi)



                                                    17

sensitivity mapping, and; (vii) static and dynamic environmental information integration into
ENUECDIS. The ENCs that will be producedfrom the hydrographic survey usingmulti-beam
technology will be used as base maps for these models including the sensitivitymapping.
Moreover, throughthe pilotingo f environmentalmarine information objects to supplement the
Straits' ENC, the project will not only provide mariners with key pollution prevention
information but will also provide access to key geo-spatial information to conservationists and
resource managers.

Existing models and systems inuse by relevant authorities o f the littoral States for marine
pollution prevention andresponse, environmentalmonitoring and coastal resource management
will be evaluated andharmonized for incorporation into the MEHsystem as appropriate. New
models and systems will also be includedsuch for sand waves monitoringand chemical spill
response. Aside from the technical evaluation o f the EMPS, related activities inother
components will be implemented to promote the participation o f relevant stakeholders inthe
environmental sector inthe Project and also to ensure long term utility o f the MEHsystem for
marineenvironment protection. Importantly, to the extent that such an effort entails bringing
together mariners, hydrographers, conservationists, scientists andresource managers, it will
enhance the open flow o f marine geo-spatial information to environmental conservation and
resource management applications.

6.       Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                    N o
~




  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [ I                   [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [ I                   [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [ I                   [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [ I                   [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   [ I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [ I                   [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [ I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [I                     [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [XI                     [ I

Although the Project triggers OP/BP/GP 7.50, Projects on InternationalWaterways, the
requirement o f notification of other riparians does not arise. This i s because the three littoral
states o f the Strait o f Malacca, namely Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic o f
Singapore, are participating inthe implementation o f the Project, and are indeedthe beneficiaries
of the Project andhave signed a Memorandum of Understanding regardingtheir participation.

7.       Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The Project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies. The Project meets the Bank's
criteria for readiness for implementation.

* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            18

                      Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                        Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

The Straits o f Malacca and Singapore are relatively shallow, hazardous to navigation, and
characterized by narrow channels, irregular tides and shiftingbottom topography. The Straits are
also o f global marine biodiversity significance, rich inthe marine fauna and flora that
characterize tropical estuarine environments. Abundant sea grass beds, mangroves, coral reefs
and wetlands enrich the associated coastal marine environments, which are also stopover points
for migratory birds on seasonal transition. Marine natural resource-related activities such as
fishingand coastal tourism are very important sources of income for the millions o fpeople living
inthe coastal zone.

The Straits are also the preferred international route for the majority o f ships en route between
the Persian Gulf and the Far East, mainly because the two alternative routes (the Lombok-
Makassar and Sunda Straits) add several days to the voyage. Recent enhancements inmaritime
safety infrastructures and regulatory mechanisms inthe Straits have improved navigational
safety, vessel traffic flow and the overall management o f the Straits as a major international sea
lane. However, the volume o f international traffic passing through the Straits or calling at its
ports i s very heavy for such a confined and environmentally sensitive waterway and i s increasing
steadily. In2001, 146,265 vessels (>75 gross tons) called at the port o f Singapore. Vessel
arrivals from 1995 to 2001 increasedby an average o f 6 percent per year for the Port o f
Singapore and 11percent for Port Klang inMalaysia. There i s also substantial volume o f cross-
Straits traffic between the three littoral States for trade and fishing. Notwithstandingthe current
navigation system, the risk o f ship collisions and groundings and o f consequent environmental
and economic damage i s high.

Ship-based sources contribute 20 percent o f the marine pollution inthe Straits and have acute
impacts on it. The major pollutants from ships are oil, chemicals, liquefied gases, sewage,
garbage, bilge water, ballast water and antifouling paints. The biggest concern i s a catastrophic
oil spill due to collision and/or grounding o f a very large tanker, thousands o f which pass
through the Straits each year. An oil spill can cover a vast area o f the sea's surface, as well as
neighboringbeaches, and its damage can be considerable. The cost o f cleaning-up an oil spill i s
very high and its environmental impact on living resources, particularly sea birds and near-shore
sessile organisms, i s significantly detrimental.

Despite recent incremental improvements to existing navigational aids and facilities inthe Straits
o f Malacca and Singapore that have reducedthe incidence o f ship collisions and grounding or o f
chemical and oil spills (see Figure Al), there i s still room for improvement. Although risk
assessmento f tankers inthe Straits based on tanker accidents inthe period from 1982 to 1993
showed a relative constant risk at 0.029 percent (Malacca Straits: refined risk assessment,
GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Program, 1999) a steady number o f serious vessel accidents have
occurred inrecent years, such as the 'Natuna Sea (October 2000) and 'Singapora Timur' (May
2001). Total compensation claims for the 'Natuna Sea from the three littoral States were over
US$127 million, but only 8.48 percent was paid due to unsubstantiated and disallowed claims,
especially on environmental and fishery-related damage.




                                                   19

   Reduction in accident rate following implementation of the Traffic Separation Scheme




                I                         INTERTANKOASIAN PANEL
                                               MEETING2002                      l2   I




                                          INTERTANKO ASIAN PANEL                13
                                               MEETING2002



Although the three littoral States o f Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic of Singapore
have relatively good oil spill response capabilities, including oil spill contingency plans and
response facilities and a cooperative response agreement, several recent serious shipping
accidents have highlighted the need for quicker and better targeted deployment o f spill response
equipment and manpower and more efficient institutional arrangements. Immediate access to
information on resources at risk, on spill location, and on the locations of stockpiled response
equipment would also raise the effectiveness and efficiency of an oil spill response.



                                                  20

          Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                           Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject

         Sector issue                          Project                   Latest supervision ratings
                                                                        (BanWGEF-jhancedprojects
                                                                                     onlv)
                                                                       Implementation     Development
                                                                          progress         objective
             ~~


BanWGEFfinanced
Protection of international    Oil PollutionManagement for the           Satisfactory   1  Satisfactory
waters from ship oil spills and South-west Mediterranean Sea
ship ballast water pollution   (TF028650   - Algeria,TF028651  -
                               Morocco and TF-028652 Tunisia)
                                                        -
                                closed March2001
Protection of international    Western IndianOceanOil Spill              Satisfactory    1 Satisfactory
waters from ship oil spills;   Contingency Planning(Comoros,
ship navigationalsafety         Seychelles, Madagascar, Mauritius)
                                TF021424 closed January2006
Protection of international    Western Indian OceanMarine Highway
waters from ship oil spills and Development and Coastal and Marine
ballast water pollution; ship   ContaminationPrevention (under
navigational safety             preparation)
Protection of international     Argentina: Coastal Contamination         Satisfactory      Satisfactory
waters from ship oil spills;    Preventionand SustainableFisheries
ship navigational safety        Management TF028385 (expected to
                                close inDecember 2006)
Environmentally-sound           China Ship Waste Disposal                Satisfactory      Satisfactory
disposal of ship wastes         TF028613 closed April 1998
Environmentally-sound           Caribbean Ship-Generated Waste          Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
disposal of ship wastes         Management closed
Other agencies
Protectionof marine             IntergovernmentalOceanographic
resources and regional          Commission Regional Environment
environmental legislation       Program
Protectionof international      IntergovernmentalOceanographic
waters ship-basedpollution      Commission Regional Action Project
                                for MaritimeSecurity

Protectionof international      Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
waters from ship-based          EnvironmentalProtectionand Maritime
pollution                       Transport Pollution Control inthe Gulf
                                of Honduras (under preparation)
Protection of international     IMO/GEF/UNDP Global Ballast Water
waters from ship-based          Management Program
pollution




                                                     21

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                           Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

 ProjectDevelopmentObjective/                OutcomeIndicators               Use of OutcomeInformation
 GlobalEnvironmentObjective
Project Development Objective is      The littoral states and commercial   Year 4 Surveys of littoralstates'
                                                                                   -
to assist the Republic of Indonesia,  shippingusers of the Straitsjointly  and shipusers' initial satisfaction
Malaysia, the Republic o f            decide whether or not to develop a   with the demonstration system are
Singapore and representatives o f     Marine Electronic Highway            usedto refine it.
some o f the large commercial ship    (MEH) for the entire Straits and an
owners that use the Strait o f        Environment Fund,basedon             Year 5 - Ifstakeholders express
Malacca and the Strait o f            evaluation of this MEH               serious interest in developing Full-
Singapore, to collectively decide     DemonstrationProject and a           Scale MEHfor the entire Straits,
whether to establish a marine         codbenefit and financial1legal       prepare technical design,
electronic highway for the entire     feasibility analysis of a potential  institutional arrangements and
length o f the Straits o f Malacca    Full-scale MEHsystem for the         financing plan.
and Singapore.                        entire Straits.

Global Environment Objective i s      Iftheir decisionis positive, afull-
to improve maritime safety and        scale MEHfor the entire Straits o f
reduce environmental damage to        Malacca and Singapore and an
the globally-significant shared       Environment Fundare designed
natural resources o f the Straits o f and a financing and institutional
Malacca and Singapore.                planprepared.
       IntermediateResults               ResultsIndicatorsfor Each             Use of ResultsMonitoring
       One per Component                           Component
ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:
Development and evaluation o f a      PIPSprepared and implementedon       Year 1- Slow PIP execution
demonstration MEHsystem for the       schedule and updated annually,       and/or project management
most congested 300 kilometer          financial management system          problems indicate needto assess
section of the Straits o f Malacca    effective, disbursements on          adequacy o f and if necessary
and Singapore i s well coordinated,   schedule.                            upgrade Project Management
managed and technically                                                    Office (PMO) facilities, staffing or
supported.                            All partners reportproject           partner collaboration mechanisms.
                                      management system i s functioning
                                      effectively.                         Year 2 -Progress guides
                                                                           performance assessment o f all
                                      Four MEHdata centers                 PMO members and PMO staff
                                      established. Dataproduction and      hiringhetention decisions.
                                      management system functioning
                                      satisfactorily.                      Years 314-Project completion
                                                                           timetable adjusted, ifnecessary.
                                      MEHdemonstration system for
                                      congested 300 kilometer section o f
                                      the Straits fully functional.
ComponentTwo:                         ComponentTwo :                        ComponentTwo:
Clear, accurate and user-friendly     Indonesiannavigational data          Year 2 - Failure to obtain required
Electronic Navigation Charts          gathering system in Straits          informationindicates monitoring
(ENCs) are producedfor the            upgradedand data provided to          and communications equipment i s
Straits o f Malacca and Singapore     MEHPMO.                              not complete or fully functional.
and are made available to ships
transiting it that have the necessary Hydrographic survey o f MEHarea      Year 3 - Inoperability o f the ENC



                                                        22

electronic equipment to use them.      completed.                            system indicates technical
                                                                             ?roblems and will delay project
                                       Well-functioning ENCs for MEH         :ompletion.
                                       demonstration section o f the Straits
                                       available for use by appropriately-
                                       equipped ships.
ComponentThree:                        ComponentThree:                       ComponentThree:
A significant number o f large ships At least 160large oil tankers and       Year 4 The proportion o f
                                                                                     -
that regularly transit the Straits are container ships that regularly pass   equipped ships using the MEH
equipped and their staff trained to    through the Straits are able and      system and their assessment o f its
use all components o f the Marine      choose to navigate through the        performance will guide refinement
Electronic Highway (MEH)               Straits using ElectronicNavigation    and promotion o f it and color
system and their electronic            Charts and all other components o f   initial assessments o f the
communication systems are fully        the demonstration MEHsystem.          feasibility o f a potential Full-scale
compatible with it.                                                          MEHsystem.
ComponentFour:                         ComponentFour:                        ComponentFour:
Spatial and temporal factors that      Sand wave model for the Straits       Year 3 -Practical tests o f sand
form and move sand waves in the        produced, tested and integrated       wave modeling system determine
Straits are analyzed, modeled and      into the MEHsystem.                   ifit's working satisfactorily.
built into MEHsystem.
                                       Environmentally sensitive areas       Year 4 - Tests o f the ENC system
Electronic Navigation Charts           within and near MEH                   confirm environmentally sensitive
(ENCs) for the Straits show its        demonstration area mapped and         area data has been incorporated.
environmentally-sensitive areas.       incorporatedinto MEHsystem's
                                       ENCs.                                 Year 4 -Monitoring o f the
Environment staff inthe three                                                exercises by senior national
littoral states can interpret marine   Environment staff in the three        environment officials will indicate
environment threat information         littoral states successhlly           ifthetrainingfor andorganization
and respond effectively to marine      complete simulated marine             o f them was effective andor needs
environment emergencies.               environment emergency response        further improvement.
                                       exercises.
ComponentFive:                         ComponentFive:                        ComponentFive:
Information on experience with         Well-designed and functioning         Stakeholder consultations indicate
developing the demonstration           Web Page created for MEH; suite       ifdissemination programeffective
MEHis effectively disseminated to ofinformative publications issued.         and how it could be improved.
all regional and global
stakeholders.                          Workshop held on demonstration         Stakeholder reactions to draft
                                       system design and performance.        evaluation report indicatewhere
Economic and financial viability,                                            and how it needs to be improved.
environment benefits, and legal        Evaluation o f potential economic,
feasibility o f a Full-scale MEHfor    financial and environmental            Stakeholder consultations on
entire Straits and an Environment      costshenefits and legal feasibility   evaluation indicate ifthey're likelj
Fundco-financed byit evaluated,        o f MEHsystem, based on               to commit to Full-scale MEHfor
based on MEHDemonstration              performance o f the demonstration,    the entire Straits and that this work
Project's performance.                 approved by key stakeholders.          should be done.

Stakeholders decide whether to         If,basedonevaluation,
develop Full-scale MEHsystem           stakeholders decide to develop
for the entire Straits and initiate    Full-scale MEHsystem for the
planning.                              entire Straits, proposal for design,
                                       financing plan, and institutional
                                       arrangements prepared.




                                                         23

In



rc
a

m
8x

      s
      0  g    g     g
      E!  2   2     2
      g             s     g  g g
      2   g2  g2    In     0 0 0
                      Tz
      g   g   g
      2   2   2



      g   s                g g
      2   0E!              d   CI



              .z
               x
      .e
      0    .$
      .e
      Y    .e
           *   .e
               Y


      z"
      m    E z "
            m    m

`0
9              .-m
0




     g                g    g    g      g
     2  gz  gz         2   2    2      2
     g  g   g          g   g     g
      2 2   2           Q\  m    hl
     g  g
     2  2   s m
             N




              .-.-2.                   `5
                                       2.
              >
              Y                        .C
                                       Y


              z"
              m                        z"
                                        m




                            U 9
                              C
                              M
                             .C


                            -0M

                             8E
                              5

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                       Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject


The objectives o f the US$ 17 million Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject are:


       (a)     to assist the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic o f Singapore and
       representatives o f some o f the large commercial ship owners that use the Strait o f
       Malacca and the Strait o f Singapore, to collectively decide whether to establish a marine
       electronic highway for the entire length o f the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore; and


       (b)     to improve maritime safety and reduce environmental damage to the globally-
       significant shared natural resources o f the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore.

The Project aims to establish whether or not a Full-scaleMEHsystem for the Straits ofMalacca
and Singapore i s economically and environmentally justified and i s financially sustainable
through:

       (a)     developing the MEHfor the narrowest and most congested 300 kilometer section
       o f the Straits and demonstrating its value for improving navigation safety and marine
       environmental protection,

       (b)     facilitating the integration o f marine environment systems and data flow and
       information exchange through the MEHsystem,

       (c)     developing the operational and administrativemechanisms for the sustainable
       management o f the MEHsystem,

       (d)     evaluating the financial, economic and legal feasibility and the environmental
       benefits o f a Full-scale MEHsystem covering the entire Straits and

       (e)     developing the technical design o f and the proposedlegal, institutional and
       financial arrangements for a Full-scale MEHsystem covering the entire Straits, and
       analyzing the feasibility o f an MEH-linkedMarine Environment Fundto support local
       marine environmental conservation activities.

The total Project cost is US$17 million, o fwhich US$8.3 million will be financed bythe Global
Environment Facility (GEF), US$6.0 millionby private sector participants (ship-owners), and
US$2.7 million by the three littoral states.




                                                  26

Project components

The Project has five components and a number o f sub-components as follows:

Component 1: MEHSystem Design, Coordination and Operation (US$2.SS million)

This component will provide for projectmanagement by the International Maritime Organization
(IMO) on behalf o f the participating countries, coordination o f the design, development and
operation o f the MEHdemonstrationsystem and also provide for key technical inputsto the
project. The main functions will be performedby the staff o f a Project Management Office
(PMO), which will operate under the responsibility o f the IMO. The PMO will be located on the
island o f Batam, Indonesia, almost directly across the Straits from Singapore. It will be co-
located with Indonesian Government's marine management bureau that i s responsible for the
Indonesianwaters o f the MEHdemonstration section and will be housed infacilities provided
and serviced by the Government o f Indonesia.

The major tasks to be undertakenwithin this component will be:

          1.     System Planning and International Maritime Organization Management (US$0.53
         million)
          (a)    Management o f the operational aspects o f the Project by the International
         Maritime Organization.
          (b)    Development o f a system for the management and on-line access and storage o f
         data and information, including links to the MEHData Centers and financial and
         economic assessments.
          (c)    Development o f criteria and measurable indicators for Project performance
          assessment, including the carrying out o f a baseline survey to compile and analyze data
          and information covering a period o f about thirty years up to the inception o fthe Project,
          as a basis for evaluationo f the impact o f the MEHsystem.

This activity will develop long-term cost-effective and efficient system to handle the
management o f datahnformation for online access and storage. It will also link up with a
number o f activities dealing with the establishment o f the MEHData Centers and warehousing
including financial and economic assessment.

The MEHDemonstrationProject i s envisaged to lead to a Full-scale MEHthat will involve the
entire Malacca Straits. As such, it i s necessary to evaluate the performance o f this Project and as
an initial step this activity will deal with the development o f criteria and measurable indicators
for project performance assessmenttaking into account the GEF, the Bank and I M O
requirements.

A consultative meeting will be organizedto validate the criteria and indicators for performance
assessmento f the MEHDemonstration Project

This activity will evaluate the impacts and contributions ofthe demonstrationMEHsystemon
maritime safety and marine environment protection inthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore. Part
o f this task will be to carry out a baseline survey to compile and analyze datahnformation


                                                   27

covering a period o f 30 years to the inception o f the Project. The output o f the baseline survey
together with data gathered inthe course o f Project implementation will be the basis for
evaluation o f the impacts and contribution o f the MEHsystem.

        2.      Proiect Management Office (US$1.7 1million)
        (a)     Strengthening the capacity o f the staff o f the Project Management Office,
        including relevant training.
        (b)     Establishment o f MEHData Centers inthe Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and
       the Republic o f Singapore, including provision o frelevant training to the staff o f the
        MEHDataCenters inoperationandmanagement ofthe MEHsystem andindata
       handling and exchange.

To ensure that the MEHsystem i s effective and efficient, competent staff musthandle its
operation and maintenance. This sub-component will comprise capacity buildingfor the MEH
system for the purpose o f developing the skills and aptitude o fpersonnel to operate andmaintain
the MEHsystem including technical backstoppingat the regional level. National staff assigned
to the Project's data centers will undergo training with a regional focus so that they will be able
to appreciate and understand the objectives, components, and implementation arrangements for
the Project.

This activity will support the establishment and commissioning ofthree MEHData Centers in
Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore including the selection o f staff, organizational and
management structure. The efficient and effective operation and management o f the MEHData
Centers will depend on well-trained staff. This activity will support several short-term hands on
training for the staff o f the MEHData Centers covering operation andmanagement, data
handling and exchange.

        3.      Proiect Steering Committee Support (US$0.64 million). Carrying out o f meetings
        o f the Project Steering Committee, the Technical Committees and the Working Groups,
        including travel and accommodations for participants.

A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established duringthe Projectpreparationperiodand
this will continue to be the directing force behindthe project duringthe Demonstrationphase.
Members o f the PSC are the agencies that were denominated as the counterparts representing the
three participating states. The PSC i s and will continue to be advised by the IMO and the two
shippingagencies that have committed ships to participate inthe Demonstrationphase will have
observer status. The Technical Committees (TCs) and Working Groups (WGs) already
established by the PSC will continue into the Demonstrationphase (see Annex 6).

This sub-component will finance the travel and accommodationcosts of the three littoral states in
attending meetings o f the PSC and its TCs and WGs, which will be heldinrotation among the
countries unless they agree otherwise as committee members. Ingeneral the meetings o f the
PSC and its TCs and WGs will be concurrent. The costs o fhire o f facilities for the holding o f
meetings will also be met from this sub-component.

Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.67 million) are included inthe above component and covers
costs which would not have been incurredwithout the Project and includes travel and per diem


                                                  28

by staff of the PMO, PSC, WGs and TCs, communications, consumables, advertisingofbidding,
printingandpublication o f Project information, rentalofmeeting facilities, but excludes staff
salaries.

Component2: MEHSystemDevelopment(US$7.04 million)

This component will provide for production ofthe navigational information on which the MEH
system will be based, and its incorporationinto real-time electronic charts that ship operators
will be able to use to navigate with precisionthrough the MEHdemonstrationsection ofthe
Straits. These activities will be coordinated by the PMO, under the direction o f the IMO, and
comprise the following sub components:

         1.     Tide and Current Facilities (US$2.63 million). Tidal and current monitoring on
        the Republic o f Indonesia's coast ofthe Strait o fMalacca, includingprovision ofrelevant
        equipment.

Navigational safety facilities inthe Indonesiancoast o f the Malacca Strait are very limited
compared to Malaysia and Singapore. Under this sub-component, Indonesia will procure certain
equipment such as Differential Global PositioningSystems (DGPS), Automatic Identification
Systems (AIS) and oceanographic equipment for tidal and current monitoring. Testing and
commissioning o f the equipment i s included.

        2.      Hvdrogsauhic Survey (US$3.21 million). (a) Carrying out o f a hydrographic
        survey within the designated traffic separation scheme inthe Strait o fMalacca within the
        Project Area and (b) Provision o f training to the hydrographic surveyors o f the hydro-
        oceanographic services o f the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic o f
         Singapore.

This activity will comprise a bathymetry surveyo fthe sea lanes o fthe Traffic Separation
Scheme within the project area o f the Malacca Strait usingmulti-beam echo sounder and DGPS
to provide complete bottom coverage. The output o f the multi-beam survey will be stored as a
highprecision databasethat willbeusedto produce highquality Electronic NavigationCharts
(ENCs). This task will include refinement o f the hydrographic survey work plan by the
Technical Committee on Hydrographic Survey and ENC productionto ensure that the survey
adequately addresses the requirements o f the project apart from the production o f ENCs. The
hydrographic survey will be contracted out through an international competitive biddingprocess,
which will be conducted by the IMO inconsultation with the PSC. The Hydrographic Offices o f
the three littoral States will carry out ajoint supervision o f the hydrographic survey. A capacity
buildingcomponent is included, mainly to provide training for the hydrographic surveyors o fthe
three littoral States, inparticular for the Hydro-Oceanographic Service o f the IndonesiaNavy
(DISHIDROS) and the Hydrographic Department o f the Royal Malaysian Navy.

         3,      Electronic Navigation Charts (US$0.34 million). Production o fhighresolution
         electronic navigation charts for the Project Area, including provision o f relevant
         computer software licenses to the Republic o f Indonesiaand to Malaysia.




                                                  29

Present ENCs inthe Strait o f Malacca from Jamb0 Ayer inthe northern entrance to Karimun are
based on hard-copy paper charts with the scales of 1:300,000 and 1:200,000. Inorder to assess
the value added o fhighdensity ENCs (e.g., 1:10,000 scale) for through maritime traffic and port
approaches, a comparative assessment o f the ENCs prepared usingmulti-beam technology with
DGPS and the current ENCs prepared under the Joint Four Nation Survey will be carried out.
Technical, economic, financial and market analyses will be conducted for comparative
evaluation as well as risk assessmentwith respect to groundings and collision avoidance
including maneuvering over a small area around the port. Specifically, this sub-component will
cover the following activities:

Procurement o f the production software will be carried out by IMO through a competitive
biddingprocess with technical inputs from International Hydrographic Organization and the
Technical Committee for Hydrographic Survey and ENC production. Six licenses o f ENC
production software will be procured through an international competitive biddingprocedure.
There i s a training component inthe software package. Hydrographic data from the survey will
be processed through this software for the productiono fhighresolution ENCs.

The ENCs will be produced by specialist cartographers o f the Hydrographic Offices o f Indonesia
and Malaysia. Production will cover evaluation o f survey data format and compilation into S-57
data sets for Sector 1to 6 o f the Malacca Strait. Fieldverification and sea trials will be carried
out on the official ENCs produced as part o f the final assessment before release for ship use.
Product packaging includes data encryption, marketing and distribution including evaluation and
formalization o f data updatemechanism. Official ENCs o f Sectors 1to 6 o f the Malacca Strait
will bejoined with the existing ENCs o f Singapore waters providing streamlined ENCs ofthe
whole Project Area.

        4.      Information Exchange Svstem (US$0.86 million). Establishment o f a MEH
        information exchange system, including data servers, data exchange protocols and
        training o f staff in data exchange.

The core o fthe Marine Electronic Highway will be the exchange o f data betweenvarious
systems that would otherwise be independent o f each other. The Information Exchange System
will provide the hardware (data servers), software (data exchange protocols) andhuman
resources (training o f staff) to permit these exchanges to take place. At the end o f the MEH
Demonstration Project an assessment o f the efficiency with which the data exchanges are able to
take place will be a critical component o f its evaluation.

Component3: Ship-boardEquipmentandCommunications(US$6.00 million)

Carrying out o f testing o f the demonstrationMEHsystem by about 160 ships fitted with type-
approved electronic chart display and information systems, including internet connectivity. This
component will be executed by the owners o f at least 160 large oil tankers and container ships
that regularly transit the Straits, and will be facilitated by two major ship owner representative
organizations, the International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO)
and the International Chamber o f Shipping(ICs). With the facilitation o f INTERTANKO and
ICs, the ship owners will arrange that, by the end o f year three, at least 160 o f their ships that
regularly transit the Straits are fitted with internationally-approved ECDIS and Automatic


                                                   30

Identification System (AIS) and have internet connectivity-these elements comprise the suite o f
technical equipment requiredto use all the elements o f the MEHdemonstration system. In
addition, the ship owners will ensure that, once the MEHdemonstration system i s operational, all
o f the 160 ships which are so equipped always use it when transiting the Straits andprovide
detailed and timely feed-back on its performance to the Project Management Office and later to
the independent experts tasked with evaluatingthe demonstration system and assessingthe costs,
benefits and legal/financial feasibility of expanding it to cover the entire Straits (see component
5). A minimumo f 160 ships fitted with type-approved ECDIS and AIS, including internet
connectivity, have been committed by INTERTANKO and ICs to participate inthe project.
These ships will participate to test-run the demonstration MEHsystem. The ECDIS will allow
the ships to use the official ENCs and together with AIS and Internet connectivity will enable the
flow of relevant information from the MEHData Centers to the ships and vice versa.

Component 4: Marine Environment Protection (US$O.S5 million)

This component will be executedjointly bythe institutions inthe littoral states that are
responsible for marine navigation and environmental management and the International
Maritime Organization and will consist o fthe following activities:

         1.     Oil Spill and Sand Wave Models (US$0.49 million). Carrying out o f a modeling
        and analyses o f (i) the likely movement o f oil spills originating inthe Project Area, and
        (ii) sandwaveformationandmovementintheProjectArea.
            the

Sand waves inthe Malacca Straits are well knownphenomena but little understood. This sub -
component will include determination o f the spatial and temporal factors that affect the behavior
o f sand waves. Assessment o f the factors through model development will be carried out for the
purpose o f forecasting the phenomena with field-testing.

        2.      Sensitive Area Mapping (US$0.33 million). Research and development o f
        options for providing real-time geo-referenced environmental protection information to
        mariners navigating inthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore and for conservation and
        coastal resources management and mapping o f sensitive areas.

This activity will include research and development of options for providingreal-time geo-
referenced environmental protection information to mariners navigating inthe Straits o f Malacca
and Singapore and will also be available for conservation and coastal resources management
including sensitivity mapping. This supplemental navigation-relatedinformation to electronic
navigation charts will be developed inaccordance with International Hydrographic Organization,
I M O and International Electrotechnical Commission standards.

        3.      Emergency Response Systems (US$0.03 million). Carrying out o f simulated oil
        and chemical spill emergency response exercises to determine the cost-effectiveness and
        efficiency o f the MEH system inthe event o f chemical and oil spill incidents from ships.

This sub-component will provide simulated oil and chemical spill emergency response exercises
to determine the cost-effectiveness and efficiency o f the MEHsystem inthe event of chemical
and oil spill incidents from ships. Factors that will influence the success o f chemical and oil spill


                                                 31

response and control will be critically evaluated inorder to enhance the utility o f the MEH
system inemergency response and control.

The Demonstration MEHsystem i s envisaged as a multi-user system capable o f providing
products and services not only to the shippingsector but also to those involved inmarine and
coastal management inthe Straits, inparticular, on the prevention and response to chemical and
oil spills including deliberate discharges. Chemical and oil spill response and control are
emergency situations and as such, appropriate guidelines and protocols need to be developed
within the framework o fthe MEHsystem to avoid any disruption or system overload.

 Component 5: Information Dissemination, Evaluation and Scale-up Plan (US$0.23
 million)

 This component will be managed by the InternationalMaritime Organization (IMO) through the
 Project Management Office (PMO), and will produce the following outputs:

         1.      Website and Publicity (US$O.O91 million). Production and dissemination o f
         information through the Internet on the MEHsystem, including technical reports,
         progress reports and a newsletter, and carrying out o f national and regional workshops
         and seminars to provide information and seek feedback on the benefits and applicability
         o f the MEH system.

This sub-component will provide for the productionand dissemination o finformation onthe
MEHsystem (such as technical reports, progress reports and anewsletter) via the Internet. In
addition, national and regional workshops and seminars will be held, giving information and
seeking feedback on the benefits and applicability o f the MEHsystem.

         2.      Evaluation CUS$0.06 million). (a) Assessment o f the cost andbenefits o fthe
         establishment and use o f the MEHsystem interms o f maritime safety andmarine
         environment protection, including (i)  the development o f criteria and measurable
         indicators for the socio-economic assessment o f the MEHsystem, and (ii)      the carrying
         out o f a socio-economic survey to evaluate the benefits o f the MEHsystem; (b) (i)
         Carrying out o f an assessment o f the technical functionalities o f the MEHsystem,
         including system performance, (ii)   Carrying out o f a continuous monitoring o fnew and
         potential technologies that could be linkedto the MEH system or enhance its
         performance, including the carrying out o ftechnical evaluations on the new technologies
         to determine their suitability, value added contribution, enhancing performance and cost
         effectiveness, (c) Carrying out o f an assessment o f the MEHsystem, including
         institutional and legal aspects, and (d) Consolidation o f the technical, institutional, legal,
         financial and economic assessments o f the MEHsystem, including the implementation of
         the Project, and development o f a managing tool blueprint.

Economic and Social Evaluation.

The implementation o f the MEHsystem is expected to have significant societal and economic
impacts, particularly among the three littoral states. This sub-component will assess the cost as



                                                   32

well as the benefits that accrued from the establishment and use o f the MEHsystem interms o f
maritime safety andmarine environment protection. It will also evaluate the effects and impacts
o f the MEHfunctionalities against pre-MEHperiod on the coastal communities, the maritime
sector, and the public sector as well as those engaged incross-channel trade. Specifically, this
sub-component will cover the following activities:

Development o f criteria and measurable indicators for the socio-economic assessment o f the
MEHsystem: This activity involvesthe preparatory phase for a socio-economic survey and
covers the development o f criteria and measurable indicators for the socio-economic evaluation
o f the MEHsystem. An appropriate survey questionnaire will be developed and statistical
analysis will be established.

Socio-economic survey to evaluate the benefits o f the MEHsystem: This activity deals with the
conduct o f a socio-economic survey for potential and target users o f the MEHsystem and the
subsequently analysis o f the survey results.

Operationalfeasibility

Assessment of the technicalfunctionalities of the Demonstration MEHsystem: This activity will
cover system performance assessment o f the Demonstration MEHsystem. The assessmentwill
bebased on agreed measurable indicators to be established bythe Technical Committees on
shore- and ship-based facilities such as interoperability, cost effectiveness, reliability, user
friendliness, access, authenticationo f sources o f information, flexibility, effective response to
emerging needs, reduction indata collection burden and efficient use o f resources, among others.
These indicators will be definedbased on standards, performance criteria or existing practices.

Suwey of newpotential technologiesfor the MEH system: This sub component will fund
continuous monitoring o f new and potential technologies inthe market that could be linkedto
the MEH system or to enhance its performance and enable it to meet the increasing needs o f the
shippingindustry as well as users from the other sectors. Applicable performance criteria,
standards and guidelines will be adopted inthe integration o f new technologies into the MEH
system. Technical evaluationwill also be conducted onthe new technologies to determine their
suitability, value added contribution, enhancing performance and cost effectiveness, among
others.

Financialfeasibility andfinancingplan

This sub-component will provide an assessmento fthe financial viability ofthe MEHsystem
(use, access, flow o f information, real time communication and provision o f services, etc.),
which will cover the infrastructure, operation andmanagement o f the system as well as to
conduct market analysis for potential users (e.g., willingness to pay). It will also include a
review o f potential revenue generation o f additional value-added services. On the environmental
aspects, the financial feasibility will include an assessment o f the revenues and costs o f
integration o f environmental systems.




                                                  33

A user survey will be undertaken to assess the acceptability o fthe proposed Full-scale MEH.
The population o f potential users to be surveyedwill include all actual and expected future
maritime users o f the Straits, including cross Straits users such as ferry operators.

There are many ways inwhich users could be charged for the services to be provided underthe
Full-scale MEH.A review o f the methods will be undertaken within this sub-component to
assess their technical and operational feasibility and a recommendationwill be presented to the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) for a decision on which method to adopt. It i s the method
chosen by the PSC that will be included inthe description o f the Project included inthe user
survey.

Once the user survey has been completed and before the PSC makes its final decision on whether
to proceed with the Full-scale MEH, and if so how it will function, a consultative meeting with
potential users will be held to present the characteristics o f the systemto them and obtain their
reaction andreceive any alternativeproposals.

Institutional analysis andplan.

This activity will consolidate the output o f several activities covering, technical, institutional,
legal, political, financial and economic assessmento f the MEH system including the
implementation o f the Project. The consolidated output will be the basis for the development of
a managingtool blueprint. The preliminary draft o f a managingtool blueprint will be submitted
for a critical evaluation by a group o f experts and to be followed by further refinement o f such a
blueprint.

        3.       Svstem Development (US$0.077 million). Carrying out o f marketing strategies to
        package and market the MEHsystem and its marine information and other products, and
        the services it could provide.

This sub-component focuses on marketing strategies to package andmarket the MEHsystemand
the essential marine information it carries, other products and the services it could provide, in
order to draw inpotential users and partners, especially those who are dealing with coastal
management, marine environment management, certain non-governmental organizations, and
user States including relevant entities outside the three littoral States.




                                                  34

                                     Annex 5: Project Costs
                       Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project


       Project Cost By Component and/or Activity




    Total Baseline Cost

    Price and Physical Contingencies                             0.22           0.71           0.93
                                   Total Project Costs'          2.60           14.40        17.00


'International Maritime Organization management and technical supervision cost (US$0.5
million) and incrementaloperating costs (US$0.67 million) are included inComponent 1.

*There are no identifiable taxes or duties and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$17.00
million and the share o fproject cost net of taxes i s 100percent.

Base costs are estimated inDecember 2005 prices.




                                                 35

                            DetailedProjectCost by Sub-Component

                   Component




      Base costs are estimated in December 2005prices

Equipmentcosts are based onprevailing market prices quotedbymanufacturersand suppliers.
The costs o f consulting services are based on those o f recent contracts for similar services carried
out for International Maritime (IMO). The cost o f the hydrographic survey i s based on the rental
cost o f survey ships and their operating cost, and reflects the current supply-demand situation for
the region.

Financing o f the project will come from the participating governments, ship operators and the
Global EnvironmentFacility (GEF). The governments will betweenthem finance about 16
percent o fthe cost, the ship operators over 35 percent (for the on-ship equipment and crew
training), and the GEF slightly less than 49 percent. The GEF grant will be intwo parts, one to
the government ofIndonesia (US$1.44 million) to fundthe purchase of essential equipment
(marine buoys) that Malaysia and Singapore already have or will finance from their own
resources and one grant to the IMO (US$6.86 million), to contract the hydrographic survey, the


                                                 36

various technical studies, and for the professional staff o f the Project Management Office
(PMO). Indonesia has agreed to fund the secretarial staff of the PMO. It i s probable that the
contribution from the ship operators will exceed the US$6.0 million indicated. This amount i s
based on the participation o f 120 ships and an investment o f US$50,000 per ship, butthe current
commitment i s already for 160 ships. The numberof participating ships i s expected to be
significantly greater, the 160being the number of commitments to participation at the time o f
project preparation.

                                 ProjectCosts by FundingSource

                                Source        US$million         YOof total
                            Indonesia                   1S O              8.8
                            Malavsia                   0.90               5.3
                            Singapore
                            Ship operators
                            GEF                                         48.8
                            Total                     17.00            100.0
                           Source: WorldBank estimates

Since this i s a demonstration project and it will cover a period o f four years, the cost estimates
are even less certain than usual. Inparticular, the costs o f the hydrographic survey could be
different than estimated. The cost could be muchhigher because o f the uncertain effect o fthe
need to avoid interference with commercial shippingon the rate o f surveying that canbe
maintained, but thenit could be lower because o f a short term excess supply o f surveying
vessels.

There i s also the possibility that a newly developed satellite based surveying method could
dramatically reduce the overall costs. Since the surveys would be carried out continuously in
real time, there would be no need for periodic resurveying and no need to develop and use the
sand wave and tidal models. The new surveying technique could give the actual depth o f water
available as frequently as the satellite passes over the Straits, perhaps once every few hours.
This technology is now inadvanced state o fdevelopment and is expected to be available inthe
early stages o fthis MEHDemonstrationProject.

Giventhe current widespread interest inthe projectby governments o fthe states most likely to
benefit from the project and the prospect o f a new technology that could dramatically enhance
the quality o f the project, a mid-term review i s more necessary than usual for the project. The
governments o f some o f the states that are potential beneficiaries o f the MEHhave recently
expressed an interest inparticipating inthe design and implementation o f the demonstration
project and infunding some o f its activities. Responsibility for deciding whether such offers
should be accepted, and if so, under what conditions, rests with the Project Steering Committee,
butthere hasnot yet been an opportunity to consider the offers.




                                                   37

                             Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                       Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

GeneralApproach to Implementation

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) i s responsible for the management o f the Project
and will initiate the startup activities covering procurement, recruitment o f a project consultant
and the establishment o fthe Project Management Office (PMO). The startup period will initiate
the procurement and installation o f Indonesia's project facilities as well as the hydrographic
survey under Component 2.B of the Project. The implementation schedules o f the individual
Project components are shown inthe Project Implementation Plan.

An implementation consultant will behiredduringthe startup periodto launchthe Project and
lay the ground work for the recruitment o f a Project Manager. I M O will supervise and monitor
the work o f the project consultant inclose consultationwith the World Bank, littoral States and
partners. IMOwill also work with Indonesia(Ministryo f Environment and the local authorities)
to establish the PMO inBatam through a Memorandum ofdgreement.

IMOwill delegate some level o f authority to the Project Manager for a more direct, cost-
effective and efficient onsite administration and management o f the Project. A standing
management procedure for the PMO inthe implementationo f the project covering procurement,
financial and administrative arrangements including backstopping from the I M O Headquarters
will be formulated andwill be put into effect following the appointment o fthe Project Manager.

Project Steering Committee

The Project Steering Committee (PSC) established duringthe project preparation (PDF Block B
Grant period) will be re-established to act as the overall regional body to oversee the
implementation o f project activities inboth the demonstration and the full-scale stages o fthe
MEH. The PSC will providethe institutional arrangement for the development ofthe managing
tool, which will operate, administer and manage the MEHsystem on a sustainable basis under a
cooperative agreement among relevant stakeholders of the Malacca Straits. The PSC i s
composed o f the following lead agencies and organizations:

        Permanent Members:
        0       Indonesia - Ministry o f Environment
        e       Malaysia - Marine Department, Peninsular Malaysia
        0       Singapore   - Maritime   and Port Authority

        Secretariat
        0       International Maritime Organization

        Observers with Advisory and Consultative Status
        0       International Hydrographic Organization
        0       International Association o f Independent Tanker Owners
        0       International Chamber o f Shipping.


                                                   38

The terms ofreference and the organizational structure ofthe PSC (as revised and approvedby
the third PSC Meeting during Project preparation (PDF Block B period)) including the Rules o f
Procedure and terms o freference o f Observers were approved by the first PSC Meeting,
Putrajaya, Malaysia inMarch2001 (inAnnex A of the Memorandum of Understanding). The
Memorandum of Understanding and the Memorandum on Arrangements further strengthen the
cooperation and collaboration among all parties to implement the Project.

InternationalMaritime Organization

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) has for many years beenassociated with the
development o fmaritime safety and marine environment protectionmechanisms that have direct
impacts on the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore and developing close working relationship with
the three littoral States at both national and regional levels. The I M O i s cognizant o fthe regional
and national sensitivities involved inthe development, promulgation and implementation o f
maritime safety and marine environment mechanisms inthe East Asian Seas region, in
particular, the Straits, and has served as the focal point for regional and international consultation
and the development o f appropriate instruments,which are already inplace inthe region.

I M O serves as the Secretariat o f the PSC but inthe course o f implementing the MEH
Demonstration Project, the Project Management Office will carry out some of the secretariat
functions o f I M O inthe conduct o f PSC meetings. IMOwill sign a Grant Agreement with the
World Bank which outlines the agreed implementation arrangements for the project and the
financial management and procurement procedures. The IMOhas the overall responsibility in
the management ofthe project andwill implementits various activities as contained inthe
Project ImplementationPlan through the Project Management Office and will provide the
necessary administrative, management and technical support and inputs to the Project, technical
guidance to the PSC andundertake regular project review, monitoring and evaluation including
audit to improve project performance and delivery. It will also submit quarterly progress reports
for the Project.

Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia and Republicof Singapore

The littoral States o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore are the major players and beneficiaries
o f this project. Aside from their membership inthe Project Steering Committee, Technical
Committees and Working Groups, the littoral States will co-finance the implementationo f this
Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) Demonstration Project by providing in-kindcontributions
such as the use or access o fmaritime safety facilities, office space, equipment, utilities and
deployment o f local experts. Only Indonesiawill sign a special agreement with the Bank
regarding the procurement o f maritime facilities to be installed inthe Malacca Strait coast o f
Sumatra, which will be utilized by the project. The littoral States together with their designated
National Focal Points, alternate Focal Points and leadhmplementing agencies will work with the
project team inpartnership with relevant stakeholders to implement the activities of the five
components o f the MEHDemonstration Project including the development o f the MEHFund
and the governing body of the MEHsystem (institutional arrangement). The littoral States will
also work towards overcoming policy, institutional and legal barriers to the establishment o fthe
MEHsysteminthe Straits ofthe Malaccaand Singapore.



                                                   39

Republic of Indonesia

There are two Global Environment Facility grants to support the MEHDemonstration Project.
The InternationalMaritime Organization i s the Recipient o f a US$6.86 million Grant and will be
responsible for the management o fthe project and all components except the sub-component on
tide and current facilities. The second Grant i s to the Republic o f Indonesia for US$1.44 million.
The Office o f the Deputy Minister for Nature Conservation Enhancement and Environmental
Destruction Control o f the Ministryo f Environment i s the coordinating Ministryfor the
Indonesianpart o f the Project. The Directorate General o f Sea Transport o f the Ministry o f
Transport i s the implementing agency (and will undertake all the procurement required for the
Indonesianpart o f the Project). The Hydro-Oceanographic Service o f the Navy o f the Recipient
will be responsible for the maintenance and operation o f the tidal stations and the Directorate
General o f Sea Transport will be responsible for the maintenance and operation o f the remaining
equipment procured under the Project. The Hydro-Oceanographic Service will represent the
Republic o f Indonesia inthe hydrographic surveys and the productiono f Electronic Navigation
Charts to be carried out by the International Maritime Organization. Specifically Indonesia will
execute the sub-component on tide and current facilities o f Component 2 o f the Project.

International Hydrographic Organization

As a partner, International Hydrographic Organizationwill also be an observer member ofthe
Project Steering Committee and will take part inthe review and evaluation o f the Project and the
implementation o f its activities including membership invarious technical committees and
working groups o f the Project. Its major inputs to the Project will be to provide technical
assistanceinthe development and production o f Electronic Navigation Charts (ENCs), the
development of ENC-based ecological or sensitivity maps and mapping services as well as
leveraging technical cooperation (e.g., training, expert advice, use o f facilitiedequipment) from
among its member States for the development o f the Straits ENCs and relatedproducts.

International Association of IndependentTanker Owners and
International Chamber of Shipping

A keystone activity o fthe project is the demonstration exercise to evaluate the demonstration
MEHsysteminvolvingship to ship and shipto shore interactions(i.e., communication,
information/ data flow). The partnershipwith the InternationalAssociation o f Independent
Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) and the International Chamber of Shipping (ICs) will ensure
that adequate commercial vessels will be made available for the technical evaluation o f the MEH
system (currently, about 160 ships from the two organizations have been committed to the
project). Both INTERTANKOand ICs will identify ships that will be participating inthe
project (Le., ships that regularly ply the Straits) including assessment o f onboard availability o f
ECDIS and AIS as well as the use o f digital technology, especially for Internet access.
INTERTANKOand ICs will also assist inmonitoring participating shipsto ensure that they
adhere to the requirements o f the Project and also, to identify any constraints or problemsthat
may arise onboard the ships during its participation incoordination with the Project Management
Office. As partners, INTERTANKOand ICs will be observer members o f the Project Steering
Committee with advisory and consultative status. Both organizations will take part inthe review



                                                   40

and evaluation o f the Project and the implementation o f its activities as a member o f the various
technical committees and working groups o f the Project.

Potential Partners

Potential partners o fthe Project (subject to the approval o f the Project Steering Committee
(PSC)) would include private sector partners such as technology providers like those engagedin
digital technology and telecommunications and inthe environment sector. Again subject to PSC
approval, national governments o fpotential beneficiary countries (user states) might also
participate inthe Project as observers with advisory and consultative status. These potential
partners could be involved inthe development o fvarious products and services o f the MEH
system, including but not limited to online and real time communications and data exchanges,
packaging and marketing. The status o f any actual additional partners would be decided by the
PSC.

Technical Committees and Working Groups

Four Technical Committees (TCs) and two Working Groups (WGs) will be established by the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) inthe course o f implementing the MEHDemonstration
Project to evaluate various technical issues and outputs o f the project for the purpose o frefining
project activities as well as activities slated for the Full-scale MEH.The TCs and WCs will be
composed o f relevant stakeholders o f the MEHDemonstration Project and experts hired under
the Project including potential users under the direction o fthe PSC. The PSC will be developed
into the governing body or managingtool (ie., corporate body) o f the MEHsystem. This
corporate body will operate, administer, maintain andmanage the MEHsystem within the public
private partnership framework. It i s envisaged that the corporate body will be fully
commissioned at the latter part o f the second stage o f the MEH. The overall organizational
structure ofthe PSC, TCs and WGs i s shown below:

                                       MEHDemonstrationProject
                                                                                    -
                                         Orpanizational Structure


                                                                                   ~




         National Focal   I,Project        Steering               International

             Point                    Committee                    Maritime            WorldBank
                                                                  Organization




           I+---*                                  Project Management
                                                          Office
           I
                              Technical Committees
                                 Working Groups




                                                    41

The membership, frequency o f meetings and responsibilities o f the PSC, TCs and WCs are:

                                   Project Steering Committee meetings

 Technical Committee/          Meeting               Membership                      Responsibilities
     Working Group
Project Steering               Annual       National FocalPoints             Overall policy directions/
Committee                                   InternationalMaritime            strategies and guidance
                                            Organization(IMO), Partners
TC on Survey and               Standing     HydrographicDepartment of        Planning, implementation,
Electronic Navigation                       Littoral States, Project         monitoring, evaluation
Charts (ENCs)                               Management Office (PMO),         Survey and ENC
                                            Partners
TC on ShoreBase                Standing     Sea Transport (Indonesia),       Planning, implementation,
Infrastructureand                           Marine Department                monitoring, evaluation
Facilities                                  (Malaysia), MPA                  DGPS/AIS/Tide/Current
                                            (Singapore), IMO, PMO,           Wind stationsmata Centers
                                            KSTAS,DSMM,MMS,Dept
                                            of Meteorology,
                                            BAKOSUTANAL,Partners
TC on Ship Borne               Standing     Sea Transport (Indonesia),       ECDIS/AIS equipment
Equipment                                   Marine Department                Standards/compatibility
                                            (Malaysia), MPA                  Practical sea trials
                                            (Singapore), IMO, PMO
TC onEnvironmental             Standing     BAPEDAL(Indonesia), DOE
System and Information                      (Malaysia), DOE
                                            (Singapore), IMO, PMO
WG on Cost Sharing                          Same as Project Steering         Sustainable financing
for the Full-scale MEH        Ad hoc        Committee                        mechanism, managing tool
WG onMEH                      Ad hoc        Same as Project Steering
Demonstration Project                       Committee                        scale project proposal
Evaluation

Project Management Office

A Project Management Office (PMO) will be established to administer andmanage the Project
on site. The office will be sited inBatam inSumatra, Indonesia, close to Singapore' and will be
hosted by the Republic o f Indonesia. The PMO has a pivotal role inthe implementation o f this
MEHDemonstrationProject. Itwill carry out on site day to day operation, administrationand
management o f the Project. It will also assist the I M O insecretariat activities, inparticular, for
the PSC, TCs and WGs and will come under the direct supervision o f the Director o f Marine
Environment Division, IMO. The PMO will have the following functions:



~



 I        As agreedto at the ThirdPSC Meeting inJakarta (October 13-15, 2003), the Meeting requested IMO to
carry out site assessment o fPort Klang, Malaysia and Batam, Indonesiaas potential PMO and to report back to the
PSC at its next session. A t the Fourth PSC Meeting heldin Singapore from December 15-16,2003, the Meeting, at
its Intergovernmental Session, agreed that the PMO site i s Batam, Indonesia.


                                                         42

    To manage the Project inaccordance with the objectives and the planned activities set out in
    this Project Appraisal Document and inthe Project ImplementationPlanwith the guidance o f
    the PSC;

    To develop a detailed work plan for the implementation o f Project activities including
    milestones, schedules, monitoring strategies and evaluatiordassessment criteria (e.g.,
    updating the Project ImplementationPlan);

    To handle the day-to-day administrative, financial and operationrequirements o f the Project;

    To organize, prepare and review relevant documents for the PSC and the TCs and WGs
    including Project progress and technical reports;

    To provide assistance inthe establishment o fthe MEHNational Data Centers including
    technical backstopping and monitoring o f activities o f such Centers;

    To organize Project workshops, training courses, meetings and related activities;

    To develop a database o f local and international experts and specialists for participating in
    Project activities and inthe recruitment o f project consultants; and

    To promote the activities o f the Project, inparticular, its products and services as well as to
    strengthen partnerships with relevant stakeholders.

The PMO will have a Project Manager, one Administrative Assistant, four experts and support
staff that will be hired by the Project. The terms o freference and qualifications o f the Project
Manager are available inthe PIP. Senior staff o fthe PMO will be recruited through an
international competitive process, inline with the Bank's Guidelines, whilst employment will be
covered under I M O staff rules (series 100and 200). The selection process for Project staff will
involve the littoral States and IMO. The Secretary-General o f the IMO will appoint the senior
Project staff, including four experts/consultants to be recruitedthrough an international
competitive biddingto assist the PMO inthe implementationo f project activities. Local support
staff will be nationally recruited through a competitive selection process. Since hiringa Project
Manager will require a long time, to facilitate an early start to implementation activities for the
first year o f the project, the IMO is expected to contract an interim Project Launching Consultant
untilthe full time Project Manger can start hisherduties.

Mid-TermReview

It is plannedto have a midterm review o fthe Project to review progress, and mainproblems and
ways to handle them, implementation till completion o f the Project, assess commitment o f the
partners to the Project as well as interest o f countries to be involved inthe Full-scale MEH,
evaluate new technologies and their potential applicability and inclusion inMEH, as well as to
determine the need for Project restructuring, ifany. This review is expected to involve IMO, the
World Bank, Indonesia's Ministry o f Environment, the Project Steering Committee, as well as
representatives o f all signatories to the Memorandum on Arrangements.


                                                   43

              Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                       Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject


A.      Assessment of the agencies' capacities to undertake Financial Management

From a financial management perspective, the Marine Electronic Highway (MEH)
Demonstration Project i s considered a low riskproject.

InternationalMaritime Organization (IMO). The financial management arrangements for the
Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) Demonstration Project activities implemented by the I M O
are acceptable. As a specialized agency o f the UnitedNations, the IMO follows acceptable
accounting and reporting practices inaccordance with the UnitedNations System Accounting
Standards. I M O received an unqualified opinion on its most recent financial statements.

Republic o f Indonesia. The Office o f the DeputyMinister for Nature ConservationEnhancement
and Environmental Destruction Control o f the Ministry o f Environment i s the coordinating
Ministry for the Project. The Directorate General of SeaTransport (DGST) ofthe Ministryof
Transport (MOT) i s the implementing agency and will undertake all the procurement required
for Republic o f Indonesiapart of the Project, namely four goods packages. The funds under the
Grant will all be for these four goods packages only. The financial management arrangements
for the operations o f M O T are acceptable subject to completion o f the agreed actionplan. The
assessment o f M O T concluded that (i)Project ImplementationUnitwill have to be established
                                         a
by M O T with Navigation Director, DGST, as the head o fthe Satker, (ii)Financial Officer
                                                                            a
recruited and assigned to administer the project activities and (iii)
                                                                    a letter regarding the audit
arrangement should be submitted to BPKP. As Conditions o f Effectiveness o f the Grant, the
Project ImplementationUnit shall havebeen established and the Republic o f Indonesia shall
have established auditing arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, including provisions to make the
audit report available to the public.

B.      Strengths and Weaknesses

International Maritime Organization. IMO i s a reputable UnitedNations agency with extensive
experience inimplementing donor-financed projects. The nature o f the Project procurement (i.e.,
relatively few contracts, each beinglarge insize) and resulting simplified accounting and
reporting also contribute to the low risk rating. Since about 15-20percent o f the grants will be
used for the procurement o f equipment, physical inspection to confirm the proper use o f Project
funds will be possible.

Republic o f Indonesia. MOT will assign its own staff as the financial officer for the Project, who
will support the preparation o f the Project interim un-audited financial statement o fthe Project
on quarterly basis. The payment verification will be conductedunder the finance unit o f DGST,
MOT.




                                                  44

C.      ImplementingEntities

The Project will engage the three littoral states, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore and a
number o f international governmental and non-governmental organizations. Giventhe number o f
counterparts, the Project will rely upon a Project Steering Committee to provide guidance,
review the Project progress and resolve obstacles to Project implementation. The implementing
agencies will be the International Maritime Organizationand the Indonesia's Ministry o f
Environment. The implementation arrangements for the Project are presented inAnnex 6.

D.      FundsFlow

International Maritime Organization. For the activities implemented by IMO, the grant funds
will be disbursed from the Bank to the I M O inLondon. I M O will then make all necessary
payments. There are no counterpart funds involved inIMO's Project activities since all activities
are fully financedby the GEF Grant. IMOwill use report-based disbursement procedures using
Financial MonitoringReports (FMR). All documentation for the expenditures as reported inthe
FMRwould beretained at the IMOand shall bemade available to auditors for the annual audit
and to the Bank, as requested. The Bank's disbursement would be for the six months projected
expenditures as reported inthe FMR.

Republic o f Indonesia. The Ministry o f Transport (MOT) funds flow will follow the common
arrangement for donor-financed projects inIndonesia. A Special Account specifically for the
Project will be open by Ministryo f Finance. The World Bank will deposit funds to the Special
Account as requested based on the Project quarterly FMR. To effect payments, the Head o f
Satker at the MOT, with the assistance o f the commitment maker and finance officer prepares
SPP (Surat PermintaanPembayaran or Payment Request) for verification (for its eligibility to the
budget and documentation completeness) by the finance bureauwithin MOT who then issues
SPM (Surat PerintahMembayar or payment order). The finance unit then submitsthe SPM to
KPPN (Treasury Office o f Ministryo f Finance) ,who inturnissues an SP2D (Bank transfer
instruction) to the central bank/ government bank. The payment will then be transferred directly
to the account o f the respective vendor or consultant or contractor. Direct payment from the
Bank can also be processed as requested o f the M O T with Ministryo f Finance consultation.

E.       Staffing

As indicated above, IMOhas sufficient qualified staff to carry out the financial management
functions imposedby the GEF Grant to IMO. The financial management function o f the Project
will be handledby a Finance Officer inboth IMOand MOT.

F.      AccountingPolicies andProcedures

International Maritime Organization. I M O accounts are maintained inaccordance with its
Financial Regulations on an accrual basis. The Financial Regulations are adopted by the I M O
Assembly and are acceptable to the IMOMember States and other donors who finance I M O
activities. Externally-financedprojects are subject to the same internal controls and reporting as
all other I M O funds. The IMO operates on a biannual financial period, with annual audited



                                                   45

financial statements. The IMO finance unit i s responsible for the accounting and reporting on a
large number o f externally-financed projects. I M O implements projects financedby bilateral
and multilateral donors, including France, UnitedKingdom, Japan, United States, European
Commission and UnitedNations agencies. I M O has sufficient capacity to take on the accounting
for the MEHDemonstration Project.

Republic o f Indonesia. MOT will follow the government standardized accounting policies and
procedures. The transactions will include limited payments o f four procurement packages o f
equipment and their maintenance through out the period o f the Project implementation.

G.      Internal Audit

MOT has its own internal audit unit,the Inspectorate General, which has a right to conduct an
audit assignment to the Project. The respected Inspectorate General mostly conducts operational
audits on all units under MOT, including Loan/Credit/Grant financed by donor agencies.

H.      External Audit

International Maritime Organization. As part o f the United Nations, I M O is subject to the usual
UnitedNations audit requirements and procedures. IMOis currently auditedby the Comptroller
and Auditor General o f India and received an unqualified opinion on its financial statements for
the year ended December 31,2004. The audited entity financial statements include an annex
with details for each o fthe numerous donor-financed projects implementedby the IMO. This
I M O entity audit report and auditor are considered acceptable to the Bank.

Republic o f Indonesia. The MOT Project audit will be the annual Project accounts to be prepared
based on the quarterly FMRs. The M O T shall prepare the Project financial statement, including
disclosure o f the special account, for audit by independent auditor acceptable by the Bank. The
annual audit report will be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end o fthe
government's fiscal year (June 30).

The audit requirement for this Projectwill be:

      Type ofAudit Report             ImplementingEntity                   DueDate
  Entityfinancial statements         InternationalMaritime    Six months after IMO's fiscal year
                                          Organization        end (June 30)
  Project Financial Statement         MinistryofTransport,    Six months after the end o fthe
                                      Remblic of Indonesia    Government fiscal vear (June 30)

I. ReportingandMonitoring

International Maritime Organization. Financial MonitoringReports (FMR) will be submittedon
a quarterly basis by IMO. The format o f the FMR will be aligned with the normal periodic
financial reports prepared by IMO for each o f its externally-financed projects. The format o f the
normal I M O annual financial statements i s acceptable. IMOprepares annual financial
statements for the entire organization, including annexes with detailed financial reports on each



                                                  46

externally-financed project. This format will provide a sufficient level of information to the
Bank.

ReDublic o f Indonesia. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be submitted on a quarterly
basis by Ministry o f Transport within 45 days of the end o f the reporting quarter. For MOT, the
FMR format would cover the following:
(i) Financial Report
(ii) Output Monitoring Report
(iii) Procurement Management Report
The first report will cover the planningpart o f the report including Report 1-C Project Cash
Forecast, Report 3-A and 3-B for the amount o f initial deposit required for the first six months o f
Project implementation.

J.      InformationSystems

IMOhas suitable computerizedinformation systems. However, M O T does not have
computerized accounting system at the Project level. The Financial Monitoring Reports will be
prepared by M O T usinga simple Microsoft Excel program.

K.      DisbursementArrangements

A Special Account denominated inU S Dollars will be established at andmaintainedby IMO for
this Project. Also, a Special Account denominated inU S dollars will be opened inthe Central
Bank o f Indonesia under the name o f Ministry o f Finance. The World Bank's disbursement
would be for the six months projected expenditures as reported inthe FMRs. The management
of the Special Accounts would essentially be the responsibility of the Administrative Division of
IMO (assisted by PMO inBatam) and the MOT inIndonesia. Disbursements from the Bank
would be made to the Special Accounts based on the submissiono f the FMRsprepared by the
Administrative Division o f IMO together with the PMO and the MOT inIndonesia. All
documentation for the expenditures as reported inthe FMRswould be retained at the PMO and
the MOT and shall bemade available to auditors for the annual audit andto the Bank duringthe
supervisionmissions.




                                                  47

The table below shows the estimated disbursementsby quarter from the Grants to each o f
Republic o f Indonesia and the International Maritime Organization (IMO).

            Disbursement of Republic of Indonesia and IMO Grants (US$ million)




L.      Global Environment Facility Grant Allocation

Allocation o f the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant proceeds to InternationalMaritime
Organization and Republic of Indonesiawill be according to the following schedule:

 Allocation of Grants to International Maritime Organization and Indonesia by Category




M.      Supervision Plan

The Bank will undertake implementation review of the Project on average once every six
months. This will include review o f financial aspects of the Project, including review o f the
Project's financial management and disbursement arrangements, quarterly financial monitoring
reports, Special Account, annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter.




                                               48

                               Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                        Marine Electronic Highway DemonstrationProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposedProject would be carried out inaccordance with the Bank's
`IGuidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
" Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Grant Agreements. The various itemsunder different
expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grants, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed betweenthe International
Maritime Organization (IMO) and the Ministry o fTransport (MOT) o f the Republic o f Indonesia
and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually or
as required to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional
capacity.

Procurement of Works: No works will be procuredusing funds from the Grants under this
Project. However, a small amount o f civil works will be procured by the Government o f
Indonesiausingits own resources and procurement procedures.

Procurement of Goods and non Consulting Services: Goods and non consulting services
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding(ICB). Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000may be procured through
Shopping on the basis o f at least three written quotations obtained from qualified suppliers.

Selection of Consultants: Consultant services to be provided by consultant firms estimated to
cost US$lOO,OOO or more will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
method. Consultant services to be provided by consultant firms estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 maybeprocuredthrough Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) method. Individual
Consultants will be selected inaccordance with Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Operating Costs: The operating costs for the Project Management Office (PMO) covering
office supplies, utilities, operating and maintenance expenditures o f equipment and vehicles,
fuel, communication, utilities, travel expenses, among others, will be disbursed on the basis o f
annual budgets to be preparedby the I M O and agreed with the Bank.

The World Bank's Guidelines, Standard BiddingDocuments to be usedfor eachprocurement
method, as well as Consultant Selection documents were provided to the implementing agencies
and the updated documents are available inthe Bank's external web-site.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

International Maritime Organization (IMO). The IMO will be responsible for the procurement o f
Goods and Consultant Services. The procurementunder the grant for IMOwill be implemented
by IMO, either though its Headquarter office or the PMO inBatam. The technical specifications


                                                  49

or Terms o f Reference as the case may be, will be developed by the relevant Technical
Committee. Inthe case o f items to be prepared duringthe first year o f implementation, the
specifications were prepared by a consultant hiredby I M O (acceptable to the Bank) during
implementation o f the PDF Block B grant. These specifications will be reviewed and the bid
documents preparedby IMO. Procurement oversight within I M O i s done through the IMO's
Internal Auditor. Inaddition, there i s also an audit conducted by external Auditors.

Republic o f Indonesia. The Office o f the Deputy Minister for Nature ConservationEnhancement
and Environmental Destruction Control o f the Ministry o f Environment i s the coordinating
Ministryfor the Project. The Directorate General of SeaTransport ofthe MinistryofTransport
i s the implementing agency and will undertake all the procurement required for Indonesian part
o f the Project, namely four goods packages (Tidal Stations, DGPS Base Station, two AIS Base
Stations, and Ocean Buoys). The Hydro-Oceanographic Service o f the Navy o f the Recipient
will be responsible for the maintenance and operation o fthe tidal stations and the Directorate
General o f Sea Transport will be responsible for the maintenance and operation o f the remaining
equipment procured under the Project. Furthermorethe Hydro-Oceanographic Service will
represent the Republic o f Indonesiainthe hydrographic surveys and the production o f Electronic
Navigation Charts to be carried out by the International Maritime Organization.

Disclosure. To support the disclosure policy pilot by the Bank and Indonesia, it i s agreed that
the Project i s adopting the greater disclosure o f information to the public. Guidelines on
disclosure o f information to the public on project and procurement activities include the
following key actions:

(a)      The I M O and Indonesiawill and the Bank may make publicly available, promptly after
         completion o f a mid-termreview o f the project carried out inaccordance with the grant
         agreement, the mid-term review report and the aide-memoire prepared for this purpose.
(b)      The IMO and Indonesiawill and the Bank may make publicly available promptly after
         receipt all final audit reports (financial or otherwise, and including qualified audit
         reports) prepared inaccordance with the grant agreements and all formal responses o f the
         government inrelation to such reports.
(c)      The I M O andthe Indonesia(and the Bank) will:


         0     Make publicly available promptly after finalization the ProcurementPlan and
               schedules, including all updates thereof;


         0    Make available to any member o f the public promptly upon request all bidding
               documents and requests for proposal issued inaccordance with the procurement
              provisions o f the Grant Agreements, subject to payment o f a reasonable fee to cover
              the cost o f printingand delivery. Inthe case o frequest for proposals, the relevant
              documents will only be made available after notification o f award to the successful
              firm. Each such document will continue to bemade available untila year after
              completion o f the contract entered into for the goods or services inquestion;




                                                    50

        0     Make available to any member o f the public promptly uponrequest all shortlists o f
              consultants and, in cases o fpre-qualification, list o fpre-qualified contractors and
              suppliers.


        0     Disclose to all bidders and parties submittingproposals for specific contracts,
              promptly after the notification o f award to the successful bidders / consultants, the
              summary o fthe evaluation o f all bids and proposals for suchproposed contracts.
              Information inthese summaries will be limitedto a list o fbidders / consultants, all
              bidprices and financial proposals as read out at public openings for bids and
              financial proposals, bids andproposals declared nonresponsive (together with
              reasons for such an assessment), the name o f winningbidder / consultant and the
              contract price. Such summaries will be made available to the public, promptly upon
              request.


        0     Make publicly available and publishwidely, contract award information for all
              contracts, promptly after such award; and


        0     Make available, promptly upon request by any person or company, a list o f all
              contracts awarded inthe three months precedingthe date o f such request inrespect
              o f a project, including the name o f the contractor / supplier / consultant, the contract
              amount, the number o f bidders / proposes, the procurement method followed and
              the purpose o f the contract.

Record-keeping: There i s a mandatory requirement for maintainingwritten records o f
procurement within both the IMO and Indonesia, however, they are not available to the general
public. All documents related to procurement activities will be mandatedto be kept at the Project
Management Office duringthe course o f the Project. With the use o f the Bank Guidelines inthis
Project, procurement documents will be made available to the public.

Staffing: Staff/Procurement Officers will be appointed inI M O and MOT to act as the focal
points on procurement issues duringthe course o f the Project. The Procurement Officers inI M O
and M O T will provide the necessary coordination and management o f procurement activities in
each o f the Implementing Units.

The assessmento fprocurement risk inthis Project is rated as `average' due to the following
reasons:

(a)   Procurement activities consist o f a limitednumber o fpackages, e.g. 8 goods, 1non
      consulting services and about 19 consultancy services packages (out o f which six are for
      firms, while the remaining are individuals);

(b)   Six packages o f goods and non consulting services will be procured through International
      Competitive Biddingand three packages through Shopping;

(c)   Technical Committees will be established, with representatives o f each of the
      Implementing Agencies, who will prepare the specifications o f the procurementpackages;



                                                   51

(d)   An interimProject LaunchingConsultant will berecruitedby IMO for the initial periodof
      the Project to expedite preparation while the selection ofthe ProjectManager is being
      processed. A Procurement Consultant will be hired to assist the project inits procurement
      plan, inparticular, for the first year o f implementation. IMOhas a procurement section
      I M O has a procurement division which i s familiar with the UnitedNations system, but has
      little experience with World Bank procurement procedures. IMO procurement staff will be
      trained inBank procurement procedures prior to start up o f Project implementation.

The agreed Procurement Action Planto mitigate the "average" riskis givenbelow.

                                         Procurement Action Plan




 procurement.
  4. The prior review threshold i s set lower thanthe maximum IMO, MOT           Completed
  prior thresholds for average riskprojects.
I public
  5. The Projectwill adopt adisclosurepolicy to increase      IMO, MOT           IncludedinPIP
         accountability ofthe Project.

C. Procurement Plan

To anticipate the procurement activities under this Project, a ProcurementPlanwas prepared by
the IMO. This ProcurementPlanprovides the basis for the procurement methods and includes
all packages that are anticipated under the Project, covering the whole period o f implementation.
Any updates to the Planwill be incorporatedaccordingly as requiredthroughout the Project
period. The ProcurementPlan will be available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's
external website, and will be updated inagreement with the task team annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual Project implementation needs.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inadditionto the priorreview supervisionto becarriedout from World Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o f the implementing agencies has recommended a yearly supervision
mission to visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                                      52

E. Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangements

1.     Goods

(a)    List of goods contracts and the nonconsultancy services packages and method of
procurement i s shown below:

                     Procurementof Goods IncludingNon-ConsultingServices

 1           2             3             4               5           6         I          8           9
Ref.     Contract      Estimated    Procurement                  Domestic   Review    Expected    :omment!
 No    (Description)   cost us       >lethod                     Preference by Bank  Bid-Opening
                                                                  (yeslno)  (Prior /     Date
                                                                             Post)
1     Supply and         210,000       ICB        1 package      No         Prior    October 2006 ?rocured
      Installationof                              consisting of:                                  'Y
      MarineTech                                  3 units for 3                                   301-
                                                                                                  DGST
      Infrastructure:                             locations
      Tide Stations
2     Supply and        1,100,000      ICB                                                        Procured
      Installation of                                                                             by
      Marine                                                                                      GOI-
                                                                                                  DGST
      Navigation
      Infrastructure:
      i)DGPS              300,000                 1unit
      Beacon Station
      ii)AISBase          250,000                 2 units
      Stations
      iii)OceanData       550,000                 1unit
      Buoy
3     Computer             84,000    Shopping     2 units                            December     Procured
      Server                                                                                      by IMO


4     Procurement of      360,000  1             1                          Prior                 Procured
      Software                                                                                    by IMO
      i)ENC                60,000    Shopping     6 licenses
      Production
      Software
      ii)Modeling         300,000      ICB         1 license
      Software
5     Office               20,000    Shopping      1 lot                                           Procured
      Equipment                                                                                    by IMO
6     Hydrographic      2,8 10,000  ICB for non-                            Prior    January 2007  Procured
      Survey                         consulting                                                    by IMO
                                      services
      Total goods      4,584,000


(b)  ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract or more and the first
     shopping contract by Indonesia will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                     53

2.     Consulting Services

(a)    List o f consulting assignments and method o fprocurement is shownbelow:

                                Procurement of Consulting Services




       Webmaster
  7    Data Center advisor              144,000       IC    Prior      18 months       Dec, 06
  8    Maritime specialist              108,000       IC    Prior      15 months     January, 07
  9    Maritime Environment              72,000       IC    Post       9 months      March, 07
       Specialist
  10   MI0symbology                     300,000      QCBS   Prior      12months      March, 07
  11   Economic and Financial            41,000       IC    Post       5 months      March, 07




Procurement methods for Consulting Contracts:
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
I C     = IndividualConsultant
CQS     = Selection Basedon Consultants Qualifications


(b)     Consultant services estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more per contract for the selection
o f consultants (firms) and individual consultant assignments estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or
more will be subject to prior review by the Bank as well as the first contract for the selection of a
firm usingCQS and the first contract for selection of anindividual consultant regardless of
value.




                                                     54

                             Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                         Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

There are three potential impacts ofthe Marine Electronic Highway (MEH)that will result in
benefits to the littoral states and ship operators. First there will be a reduced risk of collisions and
groundings o f ships, that will reduce the damage repair costs to ship operators (or infinancial
terms, might result inreduced insurance premiums)and reduced costs o fthe clean-up o f oil spills
to the littoral states, and less risk o f interference to their maritime based economic activities,
mostly fishing and tourism. A further advantage, namely that of reduced impact o f deliberate
spills and illegal discharges o f oil and waste from passing ships, has not been quantified. This
will be attempted with the more detailed data that will be collected duringthe course o fthe MEH
Demonstration Project. Second, operators o f the largest oil tankers will be able to load their
vessels with more oil, reducing the number o f voyages and ship operating costs, as well as
further reducing the risk o f collisions and groundings. There will also be reduced risk o f damage
to the rich environmental resources o f the Straits o f Malacca. It i s also possible that reducing the
risk ofpiracy will also be facilitatedby some ofthe components o fthe MEH. However,
management o f this risk i s not one o f the objectives o f the MEHand will be dealt with separately
by the littoral states (they have recently declined Japanese assistance inthis respect) and so has
not been evaluated as a benefit o f this project. A final potentialbenefit, and another that has not
been evaluated, i s that o f increased capacity o f the shippinglanes o f the Straits, so that inthe
long term future, fewer ships will be forced by capacity constraints to make longer voyages using
alternative routes.

The scale o f all o f these benefits i s proportionalto the relatednumber, type and size o f ships
passing through the Straits, so the first section o f this Annex i s a projection o f shippinginthe
Straits,

Shipping inthe Straits of Malacca and Singapore

Although growth inthe volume o f shipping stagnated in2003 atjust over 62,000 ships, over the
period 1999 to 2003 the average annual rate o f growth was over 9 percent. The two most
significant types o f ships passing through the Straits are oil tankers and container ships, with the
number o f the latter surpassing that o f the former for the first time in2002. Betweenthem, they
account for more than two thirds o f the total movements. There are therefore two drivers o f
growth inthe volume o f shippingthrough the Straits namely demand for oil and the volume o f
world trade, particularly exports from East Asia.

Oil demand and tanker movements

China2recently passed Japan as the world's second highest oil consumer after the United States,
and the fifth largest oil importer (Japan i s second after the United States and South Korea i s
fourth). Some o f the regions current net exporters, including Malaysia, will soon become net
importers. Current East Asia demand for oil o f about 21 million barrels per day i s expected to


 China's Demandfor Oil maymakeThailandCanala Reality, Globalnews, July 22,2003
httr,://www.wbai.orrr/artmad~ublisWartilcle 505.pho



                                                      55

increase to 38 millionbarrels per day between 2001 and 2025, a longterm growth o fmore than
3.5 percent per year. However, as regionalproduction i s expected to remain constant at about 8
mbd, imports will need to grow at nearly 5 percent to satisfy demand.

The Middle East currently supplies about 65 percent o f East Asia's oil, and despite the
emergence o f alternative sources such as Kazakhstan and Siberia that could supply East Asia by
pipeline, the Middle East's contribution i s expected to increase to more than 75 percent3.
Already fears that the Malacca Straits couldbecome a bottleneck for this flow o f oil are leading
to a revival o f ideas o f alternative routes such as the Kra Canal through the Thailand Peninsula,
however such projects are at least two decades away from realization4.

              Number of Ship Movementsrecordedby the STRAITREP System




  August                    4,120              4,995              5,066               7,482        5,470
  September                 4,055              4,713              4,848               4,970        5,390
  October                   4,345              4,863              5,084               4,996        5,472
  November                  4,224              4,697              4,871               4,908        5,309
  December                  4,227              4,802              5,033               4,925        5,471
  Total                    43,964            55,955             59,314              62,393        62,334

Oil tankers make upjust under one thirdo fthe total vessels passing the Straits, and o fthese
about 20 percent are either ultra large crude carriers (ULCCs) and very large crude carriers
(VLCCs) o f over 250,000 dead weight tons. They are currently limitedinthe amount o f oil they
can carry by the depth constraint o f the Malacca Straits. The maximumdepth for these vessels in
the eastbound channel o fthe Straits i s 21 meters.

In2002 there were 2,258 Eastbound transits ofthe Malacca straits byVLCCs, about one thirdof
them ULCC oil tankers o f 250,000 dead weight tons or more, and they transported an average o f
about 246,500 tons o f oil per vessel on each voyage. These ULCCs are currently constrained in
the amount o f oil they can carry by the limited depth o f the Malacca Straits as there does not
appear to be any constraint at either their loading or discharging ports. However, neither the
maximum or average size o f ULCCs passing through the Straits is expected to increase inthe
foreseeable future, so the number o f tankers transiting the Straits i s likely to grow at the same
rate as oil imports from the Middle East, other than the impact o f the MEHon allowing a greater
loading o f ULCCs.


 Long-term view and Strategic issues on Oil Supply-Demand inAsia, Northeast Asia Petroleum Forum, November
2003, htt~:llwww.wbai.orrrlartmad~ublisharticle .DhD
                                                 505

 Asia's Energy Insecurity is a Dilemma for the U.S., Asian Wall Street Journal, March 22, 2004.


                                                        56

With demand for oil exports through the Straits expectedto grow by 5 percent per year, and
average size to increase by 3 percent per year, the number of ship movements would grow by 2
percent per year, reaching some 30,000 transits by 2025. O f these, almost 90 percent (27,000)
would be ULCCs o f over 250,000.

                         DemandandSupply for OilProductsinEastAsia
                                          (thousands of tons)




    Source: Asia PaciJic Energy Research Center

Trade DemandandContainer Ship Movements

World container trade reached about 55 million Twenty foot EquivalentUnits, TEUs, in2002
(excluding empty and transshipment containers), and East Asian -Europe container hadbeen
growing at more than 10percent peryear for at least a decade.' Loadingvolume inthe region
made up 40 percent of the world total, but unloadingmade up only 28 percent, indicating East
Asia's hightrade dependence on exports. While most East Asia exports are on the trans-Pacific
routes, about 30 percent are on the routes to Europe. Most, ifnot all, container ships enroute
fiom East Asia to Europe, the Middle East and Africa pass through the Straits. There are also a
numberofcontainer ships on intra-Asia trade, North-South routes and on feeder routes to
Singapore, Port Klang and Tanjung Pelepas. Container ships on these routes currently make up
about 30 percent o f the total movements through the Straits. Projections o f the largest o f these
movements, those from East Asia to Europe, are rather inconsistent, with long term growth rates
varyingbetween5 percent and 10percent.

In2003 these container ship movements through the Straits totaled about 20,000. Inprojecting
the future number, not only is it necessary to project the total container trade on these routes, but


 Container Trade Supply Demand forecasts for Three Major east-West Trades, Research Office, Mitsui 0.S.K Lines
httu://www.mol.co.iu/research-e/reuo~annualreuo~2OO 1.udf


                                                    57

also the rapidly increasing average ship size, and the uncertain prospects for what has become
known as the Malacca-max design. While the average number o f containers carrier per ship i s
relatively low at less than 2,500 per ship, the largest container vessels presently usingthe Straits
can carry up to 8,500 containers, and this i s probably the largest economically feasible for a
single screw vessel that can maintain current speeds and schedules. The next step up would be to
a double screw vessel, and ifoperated within the current constraints o f the Malacca Straits would
be o f about 250,000 gross tons and able to carry perhaps 15,000 containers. Although some
sources consider such a ship to be already technically and financially feasible, most experts
consulted do not believe that such a large container vessel will be operating for at least another
decade. So ifthe projections o f about 8 million Twenty foot Equivalent Units o f containers to be
transported westward through the Straits are to be realized, and the average ship size increasesto
5,000 Twenty foot Equivalent Units,this would require 1,600 passages peryear, or taking into
account the return voyages, almost 100passagesper day.

Total Ship Movements

Many different ship types make up the remaining number, including general cargo, mixed cargo,
ore and grain carriers, and a few passenger ships that have not been deterred by the recent piracy
attacks. Ifthe numbers o f these ships are assumed to increase at their historic rate o f about 3.5
percent per year, and the resulting number i s added to the projections o f oil tankers and container
ships, the projectedtotal for the year 2025 i s almost double that recordedin2003, representing
an average growth rate o f about 3 percent.




                            Ship type                   2002             2025
                   NonVerv Large Crude                     17,400           30,000
                   UltraLarge Crude Carriers                3,300            16,500
                   Container ships                         23,000           34,200
                   Malacca Max                                  0             3,800
                  I Other                        I         18,600 I         41,000 I




                                                   58

Reduced accident risk and cost

Previous research on risk assessment o f tankers inthe Straits6has shown the risk o f accidents to
tanker traffic o f approximately 0.029 percent per tanker passagethrough the Straits. The risk o f
a major spill has been estimated at 10 percent o f this, that i s about 0.0029 percent per tanker.
There are several interacting characteristics o f the MEHthat could affect the probability o f an oil
spill. First, the availability o f accurate Electronic Navigation Charts and other electronic
navigation aides will allow more reliable navigation, which would reduce the risk. There i s
however a chance that with the additional electronic measures available, more risks would be
taken thereby increasingthe risk o f a grounding, collision or spill. Ifthe MEHallows a
reduction inthe under keel clearance, it is reasonable to assume that this would still result ina
reduction inthe risk o f a grounding, compared to the operationo f an unequippedvessel
operating with the existing under keel clearance. Combining these effects, it mightbe expected
that the overall risk of a major spill would reduce by at least 10 percent with the introduction o f
the MEH.

There i s not much economic or financial quantification o f the costs o f oil spills inthe Straits.
One accident for which substantial evidence is available i s used as the source for the reduced
costs o f future accidents. The Natuna Sea incident, which occurred in October 2000, resulted in
a spill o f about 7,000 tons or about 46,000 barrels o f oil. The total clean-up cost was about
US$127 million, made up o f US$102 million compensation to Indonesia for environmental
damage, about US$10 million incompensation, again mostly to Indonesia for fishing-related
compensation and about US$15 million inclean-up costs, mostly incurredby Singapore. This i s
equivalent to about US$18,000 per ton o f oil spilt, which i s the unit cost used here.

Economic Evaluation

Taking the situation in2002 as a base case, there were 20,700 transits o f tanker vessels
(excluding LNG/LPG carriers). The average size o f oil spills inthe Malacca Straits inthe period
1975 to 1997 was 5,680 tons, and usingthe average clean-up cost o f US$18,000 per ton o f oil
spilt with a total expected cost of about US$60 millionper year. Ifthe number o f spills hadbeen
reduced by 10 percent this would have resulted ina saving o f some US$6 million per year.
Since about halfo f the coastline o f the Straits i s inMalaysian territory and about half in
Indonesianterritory, these benefits would have been approximately equally divided between
these two littoral states.

When the same unit costs are applied to the projectednumber o f tanker voyages through the
Straits, and the investment costs are taken to include operating and maintenance and resurveying
every four years, the net present value is about US$26 million (usinga discount rate o f 12
percent), the economic rate o f return (ERR) i s about 32 percent and the modified economic rate
o f return (usinga rate o freturn o f 12 percent for reinvested benefits) i s about 21percent. These
values are robust to projections inthe number o f voyages, even with a continuation o f the 2002
number o f voyages the evaluationresults are US$13 million for the net present value, 24 percent
for the ERR and 18 percent for the ERR. The switching value for costs (the cost increase needed
to result ina zero net present value) is an increase o f about 240 percent, or for the benefits to be


 Malacca Straits: Refined Risk Assessment, PEMSEA, 1999


                                                     59

reduced to 43 percent o f their estimated value, or for costs to increase by 45 percent while
benefits reduce to 65 percent.

                                 Summaryof Economic Evaluation Results

                                  Net Present Value                 Economic               Modified Economic
                                                                Rate of Return                Rate of Return
  Basic values                           US$26 million                           32%                          21%
  Constant voyages                       US$13 million                           24%                           18%
  Switching values                      Cost     +240%                   Cost + 240%                  Cost +240%
                                        Benefits     43%                Benefits 43%                  Benefits 43%
                                  Cost +145%, Benefits        Cost +145%. Benefits         Cost +145%. Benefits
Source: WorldBank estimates

These are conservative estimates as they do not allow for any benefits arising from reducingthe
minimumrequiredunder-keel clearance or other benefits stemmingfrom the MEHsuchas
reductions inminor oil spills and damage to vessels as a consequence o f improved safety, less
congestion inthe Straits, avoidance o f the dumpingo f ships' waste & bilge, enhanced speed o f
response to incidents, greater levels o f real time information, reduced risks o f loss o f cargo and
fatal & non-fatal injuries to seafarers.

Reduced Under-keel Clearance

A further benefit stems from a possiblereduction, ifagreed, inthe minimumrequiredunder-keel
clearance from 3.5 meters to 3.0 meters because of the more accurate and up-to-date
hydrographic information and availability o f ENCs and other electronic navigation aids. This
should lead to increased loads for any tankers which are currently draft constrained7 (namely
VLCC vessels over 250,000 dead weight tons) resultinginfewer transits o f the Straits.

In2002, there were about 17,400 transits by conventionaltankers andthey carried anaverageof
about 80,000 tons per transit and 3,300 transits by VLCCs that carried an average o f 246,500
tons o f oil per transit. Ifthe under keel clearance were to bereduced to 3.0 meters, the ULCCs
would have been able to transport about an additional 16,500 tons per laden voyage. That is, the
same amount o f oil that in2002 was transported in 1,000 transits by VLCCs could be transported
in938 transits, a reduction of 62 ladentransits.

These 62 transits would imply a saving of eight vessels employed only inthe Middle East to Far
East trade. For these vessels the runningcosts per vessel are about US$7.8 million per year
(about US$62.4 million for 8 vessels) andthe fuel cost savings o f the 62 voyages would be a
further US$33 millionper year, giving an annual saving for the 2002 volume o foil transported
o f US$95.8 million. Usingthe same vessel operating costs, but the 2020 volume of oil


'Theauthors    have found no evidence that an extra 0.5 meters o f draft would pose any difficulties for VLCCs
transiting the Malacca Straits and bound for ports inChina, Japanor South Korea, since both China and South Korea
have ports that can accommodate ULCCs and China has some facilities that can accommodate VLCCs carrying up
to 270,000 tons o f crude oil (Lloyd's Register -Fairplay Ports and Terminals Guide 2003-2004, various Drewry
Monthly Reports).


                                                          60

transported, would give a saving o f about 1,000 voyages, equivalent to about 129 vessels and
annual cost saving for that year o f about US$1.27 billion.

The size of these financial benefits to ship operators i s an indication o f the opportunities for
implementing a voluntary charging system for the MEH.

AdditionalReducedRisk of Collisionor Grounding

The saving invoyages would further reduce the cost of accidents by reducingthe number o f
voyages through the Straits. This would have amounted to about US$O.17million in2002 and
will be about US$2.69 millionby 2020a7(Note that, inthese calculations, the risk o f accidents
has been reducedby 10percent to allow for the increased safety innavigation o f vessels arising
from the operation o f the Marine Electronic Highway (MEH)).

The estimates assume that when the MEHi s operational most ships passing through the Straits
will be fitted with Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems even though the net
benefits accruing to ship owners from doing so could not be quantified*.

References:

[11.Traffic figures 2002 for the Malacca and Singapore Straits come from
m.marine.gov.mv/misc/statistic/kp 2002.

[2]. Marine PollutionManagement inthe MalaccdSingapore Straits: Lessons Learned. Publishedby
GEFIUNDPIIMO Regional Program for the Prevention and Management o f Marine Pollution inthe East Asian
Seas. March 1998. Table 13 p25

[3]. Malacca Straits: InitialRisk Assessment prepared by Peter Calow andValery Forbes for the GEFiUNDPiIMO
Regional Program for the Prevention and Management o f Marine Pollution inthe East Asian Seas. March 1997.
Table 20 and pp61-63

[4]. Marine Pollution Management inthe MalaccdSingapore Straits: Lessons Learned. Publishedby
GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Program for the Prevention and Management o f Marine Pollution inthe East Asian
Seas. March 1998. Table 25 p103

[5]. Traffic figures 2002 for the Malacca and Singapore Straits come from
m.marine.rzov.mv/misc/statistic/ku 2002.

[6]. Swinnerton R. A description o f regional shipping routes: navigational and operational considerations. December
1994. Table 4 p3.

[7]. Marine Pollution PreventionManagement inthe East Asian Seas: a Benefit-Cost Framework. Published by
GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Program for the Prevention and Management o f Marine Pollution inthe East Asian
Seas. March 1999. pp22-24.




* A sensitivity analysis was conducted which showed that the estimated total cost per barrel spilt could fall to below
US$1900before the NPVbecame zero or alternatively the reduction inthe risko f a major oil spill could fall to 6.9
percent for the same effect.


                                                         61


                                                                                       Appendix 1

                                      UnitCosts of oil spills

This cost was derived from the Natuna Sea incident that occurred inOctober, 2000. The
estimated size o f spill was 7,000 tons, equivalent to 46,340 barrels.




Cost per ton                    -
                                -      US$ 127,003,225/7000
                                -      US$ 18,143.32
Cost per barrel                 -
                                -      US$ 18,143.32/6.62
                                -      US$ 2,740.68
Source: 2001 Annual Report of the International Oil Pollution CompensationFunds

                         Very LargeCrude Carrier operatingcosts (US $)

The figures are based on a vessel with a capital cost of US$68 million and a life o f 25 years.

The runningcost elements include:

Manning, including victualling         US$ 892,000
Lubes and stores                       US$386,000
Spares, R & M                          US$263,000
Drydocking (annualized cost)           US$688,000
Insurance                              US$ 582,000
Administration                         US$ 110,000
Miscellaneous                          US$ 65,000

Runningcosts per annum =               US$ 2,986,000
Capital costs* per annum =             US$ 4,825,000
Total operating costs per annum = US$ 7,811,000


*Annual capital costs calculated on a 5 percent rate o f return over 25 years on an initial cost of
US$68 million.




                                                 62

                                                                                        Appendix 2

                                       FuelAdjustment Calculations

These figures calculate the effect on fuel consumption o f carryingextra cargo as a result o f a
reduction o f 0.5 meters inunder keel clearance and based on a cost o f US$l55 per ton o f fuel.

Original payload o f Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC)             =      246,500 tons
Daily fuel consumption                                            -
                                                                  -     97 tons
Reducedunder keel clearance allows pay load o f 263,000 tons
                 andthe daily fuel consumption                    -
                                                                  -     98 tons
i.e. the vessel uses 1 extra ton of fuel for every additional 16,500 tons o f payload.
Daily fuel consumption inballast                                  -
                                                                  -     82 tons

Assumingthe longest voyage (Gulf-Yokohama)would take 21 days eachway plus3 days in
port, then the round trip would take 45 days and the vessel could make 8 round trips per annum.
In2002 we have estimated that there were 1000VLCC ladentransits ofthe Straits. Ifeach
VLCC can now carry an additional 16,500 tons o f cargo this implies that, ceterisparibus, only
938 ladentransits will be required to transport the same volume o f oil.
1000 transits + 8 round trips                        -     125 ships
938 transits 8 round trips
              t                                      -     117 ships

Assuming 350 working days eachyear, o fwhich24 are spent inport leaves 326 days at sea, half
of which will be laden and halfinballast.
Fuelconsumption (laden)                              =     98 tonsfday
Fuelconsumption (ballast)                            -
                                                     -     82 tonsfday
The fuel saved when sailing loaded usingfewer ships and allowing for the payload penaltyi s
givenby:
Number o f ships x days at sea x fuel consumption
i.e.     ( 1 2 5 ~ 1 6 3 ~ 9 7 ) - ( 1 1 7 ~ 1 6 3 ~ 9=8 ) 107,417 tons
The total savings (loaded)                           -
                                                     -     107,417 tons x US$l55
                                                     -
                                                     -     US$16,649,635

There are also fuel savings fi-om making fewer ballast voyages:

         8 x 163 x 82                                -
                                                     -     106,928 tons @ US$l55 per ton
                                                     -
                                                     -     US$16,573,840


Hence, the total fuel savings are US$16,649, 635          +US$16,573,840  = US$33,223,475




                                                       63

                                  Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                          Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project


Projects on International Waterways

Although the Project triggers OP/BP/GP 7.50, Projects on International Waterways, the
requirement o f notification o f other riparians does not arise. This i s because the three littoral
states o f the Strait o f Malacca, namely Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic of
Singapore, are participating inthe implementation o f the Project, and are indeed the beneficiaries
o f the Project. The three states have signedaMemorandum of Understanding regardingtheir
participation.

Natural Habitats

The Project was further carefully assessedfor possible implications related to OP/BP 4.04,
Natural Habitats, and it was concluded that the Project does not trigger it this safeguard.

Institutional Capacity for application of Safeguard Policies.

All institutions with Project implementationresponsibilitieshave beenalready involved inthe
implementation o fWorld Bank projects and have the institutional capacity to apply the World
Bank's Safeguard's Policies, including for screening and mitigation o fpossible negative
environmental and/or social impacts. The implementing agencies will continue to assess the
potential for any such possible impacts throughout Project implementation.




                                                  64

                        Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                     Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

                                         Planned               Actual
Project Concept Note review               October, 2002        June 23,2003
Appraisal                                March, 2003           January 4,2006
Negotiations                             March, 2003           February 10,2006 with I M O
                                                               March 14, 2006 with Indonesia
Board approval                            May 30,2006
Planneddate o f effectiveness             July 1, 2006
Planneddate o f mid-term review
Planned closing date                      June 30,201 1

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the Project:

The InternationalMaritime Organization and the Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic
o f Singapore.

World Bank staff and consultants who worked on the Project included:

Name                          Title                                        Unit
Marc Juhel                    Original Task Manager                        TUDTR
RobinCarruthers               Second Task Manager and Economist            TUDTR
Hatim Hajj                    ThirdTask Manager untilFebruary 2006         EASTR
Sally Burningham              Task Team Leader fromMarch2006               EASTR
RobinBroadfield               Regional Coordinator, GEF                    EASEN
MilenDyoulgerov               Consultant                                   ENV
Guoy Tong Gat                 Maritime Specialist, Consultant
FirmanDharmawan               Procurement Specialist                       EACIF
Imad Saleh                    Procurement Specialist                       EACIF
Richard Goss                  Maritime Economist, Consultant
Novira Asra                   Financial Management Specialist              EACIF
KarinNordlander               Legal Advisor                                LEGEA
Anthony Toft                  Chief Counsel                                LEGEA
Sri Oktorini                  Team Assistant                               EACIF

Bank funds expendedto date on Project preparation:
1.      Bank resources:               US$364,763 as o f end April, 2006
2.      Trust funds: GEF Block B: US$560,826.52 (originally US$574,210 was signed with
                                      US$13,383.48 subsequently cancelled)
               Total:                 US$925,589

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
1.      Remaining costs to approval:          US$13,000
2.      Estimated annual supervision cost:    US$60,000 from the Global Environment Facility



                                                  65

                            Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File
                      Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project

General Documents

Memorandum o f Understanding                                   September 2005
Memorandum on Arrangements                                     September 2005
Project ImplementationPlan                                     November 2005

Global Environmental Facility Project Brief                    June 2003
Regional Action Plan, for Phase IMEH                           January 2002
Present Status o f Development o f the MEH                     May 2003
Report o f Proceedings o f the:
        FirstProject Steering Committee Meeting                March 2001
        Second Project Steering Committee Meeting              May 2002
        ThirdProject SteeringCommittee Meeting                 October 2003
        Fourth Project Steering Committee Meeting              December 2003

Economic/ Feasibility Studies

Feasibility Study, International Finance Corporation           1999
Cost Benefit Report for MEH, CardiffUniversity                 June 2004
An Economic Approach to Maritime Legal Liability               January 2004
Benefit - Cost Analysis o fTourism Development and
Sustainability inthe Malacca Straits, GEF/UNDP/IMO             June 1998

Environmental Studied Documents

Oil Spill Modeling inEast Asia Region, UNDP/ KORDI             1997
Malacca Straits Environmental Profile, GEF/UNDP/IMO            1997
Marine Pollution Management inthe Malacca/ Singapore
Straits : Lessons Learned, GEF/UNDP/IMO                        March 1998
Natural Resource Damage Assessment and the Malacca
Straits, GEF/UNDP/IMO                                          March 1999
Sustainable Financing for Ship-based Pollution inthe
Malacca Straits, GEF/UNDP/IMO                                  March 1999
Marine Pollution Prevention and Management inthe East
Asia Seas: A Benefit -Cost Framework, GEF/UNDP/IMO             March 1999
Regional Consultative Workshop on the Recovery o f Oil
        SpillClean-up Costs and PollutionDamage
        Claims, GEF/UNDP/IMO                                   September 1999
Malacca Straits: Refined Risk Assessment, GEF/UNDP/IMO          1999
Challenges and Opportunities inManaging Pollution inthe
        East Asia Seas, GEF/UNDP/IMO                           March 1999
Proceedings o f the Senior Experts Dialogue on Coastal
        and Marine Policy, PEMSEA                              July 2001


                                               66

Environmental Strategy for the Seas o f East Asia, PEMSEA   August 2001
Regional consultative Workshop on Strengthening Recovery
      o f Ship Pollution Clean-up Costs and damage Claims,
      PEMSEA, Singapore                                     September 2001

Procurement and FinancialManagement documents

Consulting Services for Economic Analysis                   June 2004
Technical Specification o f the Marine Electronic Highway
       System inthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore       March 200
Procurement Plan                                            June 2005
Procurement Capacity Assessment                             June 2004
Financial Management Assessment                             June 2004




                                                67

                                     Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project


                                                                                                           Difference between
                                                                                                           expectedand actual
                                                         Original Amount inUS%Millions                       disbursements
                                                                            ~


ID      FY   Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA      SF      GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.   Frm. Rev'd

PO97535 2006 Community RecoveryThrough the KDP           0.00      0.00    64.70     0.00   0.00   5 1.20   0.00        0.00
PO77175 2006 ID-DomesticGas Market Development          80.00      0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   80.00    0.00        0.00
PO71296 2005 ID-USDRP                                   45.00      0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   45.00    0.29        0.00
PO76174 2005 ID-Initiatives for LocalGovem. Reform      14.50      15.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   28.65    0.00        0.00
PO78070 2005 Support for Poor and DisadvantagedAreas    69.00     35.00    0.00      0.00   0.00  102.12    0.00        0.00
PO84583 2005 ID-UPP3                                    67.30     71.40    0.00      0.00   0.00  134.27   -0.34        0.00
PO85133 2005 Govt Fin1Mgt & RevenueAdmin Project        55.00      5.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   56.31    0.64        0.00
PO85374 2005 ID-Higher Education                        50.00     30.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   78.29    0.00        0.00
PO92019 2005 KecamatanDevelopmentProject3B              80.00     80.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   153.68  52.11        0.00
PO95883 2005 ID Reconstructionof Aceh LandAdmin          0.00      0.00    25.00     0.00   0.00   25.50    0.00        0.00
PO74290 2004 ID-EastemIndonesiaRegionalTransport 2    200.00       0.00     0.00     0.00   1.00  173.OO   29.67        0.00
PO71318 2004 ID - Coral  ReefRehab andManagementI1       0.00      0.00     0.00     7.50   0.00     7.02   0.43        0.00
PO71316 2004 ID- CoralReefRehab and Mgmt ProgI1         33.20     23.00     0.00     0.00   0.17    51.00    0.36       0.00
PO64728 2004 ID-LandManagement and Policy Develop.      32.80      32.80    0.00     0.00   0.16    59.38    6.46        0.00
PO59931 2003 ID-WaterResources & 1rr.SectorMgt Prog     45.00      25.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    69.95  33.16         0.00
PO63913 2003 ID-Java-BaliPwr Sector & Strength        141.00       0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   136.84   88.09        0.00
PO79156 2003 ID Third KecamatanDevelopmentProject     204.30       45.50    0.00     0.00   0.00    74.20   33.78        0.00
PO76271 2003 ID-PPITA                                   17.10      0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    13.14   10.23        0.00
PO73772 2003 ID-HealthWorkforce & Services(PHP 3)       31.10      74.50    0.00     0.00   0.00    97.00  42.12         0.00
PO72852 2002 ID UPP2
               -                                        29.50      70.50    0.00     0.00   0.00    77.15   37.33        0.00
PO73970 2002 ID-GLOBAL DEV LEARNING(LIL)                 2.66      0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     1.68    1.68        0.00
PO40578 2002 ID-EastemIndonesiaRegionalTransport      200.00       0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    41.30   39.64        0.00
PO49539 2001 ID-Provincial Health I1                    63.20      40.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    80.23   67.81        0.00
PO40528 2001 ID-W. JAVA ENVMT MGMT                      11.70       5.75    0.00     0.00   0.00     7.68    6.81        1.72
PO73025 2001 ID-SECONDKECAMATAN                       208.90      111.30    0.00     0.00   0.00    61.60   46.97        0.00
             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PO68051 2001 ID-GEF-W. JAVA ENVT MGMT                    0.00      0.00     0.00     2.54   0.00     2.05   10.00        2.12
PO68949 2001 ID-LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT                      0.00      4.15     0.00     0.00   0.00     0.56    0.00        0.00
             PROJECT-LIL
PO59477 2000 ID-WSSLIC I1                                0.00      77.40    0.00     0.00   0.00    43.65   34.00        0.00
PO49545 2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                      0.00      38.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    18.63   16.24        4.38
PO40196 1999 ID-SUMATRA BASIC EDUCUATION                54.50      20.10    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.35    0.99        0.00
PO41895 1999 ID-SULAWESIBASIC EDUC.                     47.90      15.93    0.00     0.00   0.00    11.09   11.85        0.00
PO36049 1999 ID-EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT                 21.50       0.00    0.00     0.00   10.65    1.33   11.99       11.99
PO40061 1998 ID - BENGKULUREGIONAL                      20.50       0.00    0.00     0.00   5.00     4.63     9.63       4.63
             DEVELOPMENT
PO03993 1998 ID-SUMATRA REG'L RDS                     234.00        0.00    0.00     0.00   50.00    7.08   57.08        1.40

                                               Total: 2,059.66    820.33   89.70     10.04 66.98  1,795.56 649.02       26.24




                                                               68


              STATEMENT OF INTERNATIONALFINANCE CORPORATION'S
                                 Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                   InMillionsofUS Dollars
                                          Committed                        Disbursed

FY Approval Company             Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic. Loan     Equity   Quasi   Partic.
2004        BonaVistaSchool        1.oo   0.00     0.00   0.00     1.oo    0.00     0.00    0.00
2003        BuanaBank              0.00   12.16    0.00   0.00     0.00   12.16     0.00    0.00
2006        BuanaBank              5.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999        ITCF                  40.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
            LYON-MLF-Ibis          2.01   0.00     0.00   2.01     2.01    0.00     0.00    2.01
2004        MedanNP School         1.75   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002        P.T. Gawi             11.50   0.00     0.00   4.07     5.35    0.00     0.00    4.07
1989        PTAgro Muko            0.00   2.20     0.00   0.00     0.00    2.20     0.00    0.00
1997        PTAlumindo             4.78   0.00     0.00   0.00     4.78    0.00     0.00    0.00
1989        PT Astra               0.00   0.20     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.20     0.00    0.00
1994        PT Astra               0.00   0.19     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
2003        PT Astra               0.00   0.12     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00
            PT Astra Otopart       0.00   0.70     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.70     0.00     0.00
2005        PT Astra Otopart      24.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    24.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
2005        PT Austindo N...      15.06   0.00     0.00   0.00     1.96    0.00     0.00     0.00
2000        PTBankNISP             0.00   2.85     2.86    0.00    0.00    2.85     2.83     0.00
2002        PT Bank NISP           0.00   2.04     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.04     0.00     0.00
2004        PT Bank NISP          35.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   35.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        PT Berlian             0.00    3.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1993        PT Bina Danatama       0.07   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00     0.00     0.00
1996        PT Bina Danatama       0.00   0.00     3.62    6.73    0.00    0.00     3.62     6.73
2004        PTEcogreen            30.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
2005        PTEcogreen            25.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    15.00   0.00     0.00     0.00
            PT Grahawita           0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.00     0.00
1991        PT Indo-Rama           0.00    3.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.82     0.00     0.00
1995        PT Indo-Rama           0.00    1.57    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.57    0.00     0.00
1999        PT Indo-Rama           0.00   0.81     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81     0.00     0.00
2001        PT Indo-Rama          20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00     0.00     0.00
2003        PT Indo-Rama           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.88    0.00     0.00     0.00
2004        PT Indo-Rama          48.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    14.00   0.00     0.00     0.00
1992        PT KIA Keramik         0.23    0.00    0.00    2.00     0.23   0.00     0.00     2.00
1996        PTKIA Keramik          1.65    0.00    0.00  53.49      1.65   0.00     0.00    53.49
1995        PTKIA Serpih           4.50    0.00    0.00  49.50     4.50    0.00     0.00    49.50
1997        PTKalimantan          11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25   0.00     0.00     0.00
            PTMako                 0.00    2.61    0.00    0.00     0.00   2.61     0.00     0.00
2000        PTMako                 0.00    1.25    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.79    0.00     0.00
1998        PTMegaplast            4.38    2.50    0.00    0.00     4.38    2.50    0.00     0.00
1993        PTNusantara            0.00    0.00   10.16    7.90     0.00    0.00    10.16    7.90
2004        PTPrakars(PAS)        35.00    0.00    0.00    9.02    35.00    0.00    0.00      9.02
1997        PT Sayap               2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.50    0.00    0.00      0.00
2001        PT Sigma               0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.09    0.00      0.00
1995        PTViscose              9.38    0.00    0.00    2.92     9.38    0.00    0.00      2.92
2004        PT Viscose             9.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00      0.00



                                               69

                                                Committed                        Disbursed

FY Approval Company                   Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic. Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic.
1997        PT Wings                     2.17   0.00     0.00   0.00     2.17   0.00      0.00   0.00
2003        SMM                          3.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00
2001        Sunson                      11.62   0.00     0.00    7.35   11.62   0.00      0.00    7.35
2005        WOM                          0.00  20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  19.93      0.00    0.00
2004        Wilmar                      20.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   20.00   0.00      0.00    0.00
                     Total portfolio:  383.35  57.46    21.64  144.99  246.06  53.58     21.61  144.99




                                                    70

                                              Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project
                                                                   East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia &  middle-
                                                       Indonesia  Pacific income       Developmentdiamond'
2005
Population, mid-vear (mlllions)                           221.3    1.870    2,430
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         1,240   1,280    1,580                      Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          273.9    2,389    3,847                             -
Average annual growth, 1999-05
Population (%)                                               1.4     0.9      1.o
Labor force (%)                                              2.7     1.I 0.7           GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                       per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                  capita                             enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline)           17
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                      46      41        49
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             66       70       70                             .L
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000live births)                      31       32       33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                   27       15       11             Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)          70       78       81
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                           91       90       90
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)        111     113      114           -lndonesia
   Male                                                      112     113      115                  Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                    110     112      113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1985     1995    2004     2005        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 87.3    202.1   254.3    287.2
Gross capital formatiodGDP                         28.0     31.9    23.2     22.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP                  22.2     26.3    32.1     33.5                           Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                         29.7     30.6    27.9     26.6
Gross national savingslGDP                         49.2     56.3    24.9     23.4                             T
Current account balancelGDP                        -2.2     -3.2     0.6      0.3
Interest paymentslGDP                               2.7      3.1     4.6      1.7       Domestic                         Capital

Total debtlGDP                                     42.0     61.5    53.9     46.5       savings                          formation

Total debt servicelexports                         28.8     29.9   -25.7    -27.0
Present value of debVGDP
Present value of debffexports
                                                                                                         Indebtedness
                                       1985-95 1995-05     2004    2005   2005-09
(average annualgrowfh)
GDP                                        7.7      2.2      5.1     5.6      6.3             -      lndonesia
GDP per capita                             5.9      0.8      3.6     3.8      4.9                    Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services              9.3      2.4     13.5     8.6      11.2


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                              1Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                          1
Agriculture                                        23.2     17.1    15.6      13.4      2o

Industry                                           35.0     41.8    44.3     45.8
  Manufacturing                                    16.0     24.1    28.7     28.1
Services                                           40.9     41.1    40.1     40.8      :::';
Household final consumption expenditure            59.1     61.6    63.7     65.2      - 3 0 1
General gov't final consumption expenditure        11.2      7.8     8.4       8.2                  -GCF            b G D P



                                               1985-95   1995-05
(averageannualgrowfh)                                                                  Growth of exports and imports (%)

Aqriculture                                         3.4      2.4     4.1      0.6      4o

Industry                                            9.7      2.1                       2o
                                                                '    3.9      4.2
  Manufacturing                                    11.2      3.3     6.2       4.8       0
Services                                            7.9      2.2     6.8       9.1   -20

Household final consumption expenditure             6.5      3.3     9.4      7.4   -40

General gov't final consumption expenditure         4.6      3.6     4.0      8.1   .eo
Gross capital formation                            11.0     -3.4     6.4      4.2                ---+Exports        "O-Imports
Imports of goods and sewices                        8.5      0.0    27.1      12.3




                                                                 71

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1985          1995    2004    2005
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation(%)                                     I
(% change)                                                                          25
Consumer prices                                 4.8           9.4     6.1   10.5    20
Implicit GDP deflator                           4.3           9.7     6.3   13.7     15
                                                                                     10
Government finance                                                                    5
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                19.8          15.6    17.6   18.2              00     01     02       03      04      05
Current budget balance                          -2.3          7.8
                                                                     -1.o
                                                                      7.4     7.6
Overall surplusldeficit                         -1.0          4.1            -0.5             -GDP       deflator   l o ' C P l


TRADE
                                              1985          1995    2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ mill.)            1
Total exports (fob)                          18,527       45,418   71,585 85,625
  Fuel                                                     10,465  15,803  19,155                                                      I
  Rubber                                                   2,916    1,144  1,468
  Manufactures                                     ......  18,312  22,063 22,343
Total imports (cif)                          10,259       40,629   46,525 57,600
  Food                                             ..      3,022    3,786  3,888
  Fuel and energv                                          3,007   11,797  17,429
                                                                                                                                       I
  Capital goods                                    ....    16,290  12,175  13,949
Export price index (2000-100)                                  24     107     124             88   00    01     02    03     04    05

Import price index (2000=100)                                  26     114     130                   Exports         MImports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                                      95      94      95

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                              1985          1995    2004    2005
(US$millions)                                                                         Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and sewices                 19,371        52,923  89,783  89,783   118 T                                              1I
Imports of goods and services                17,840        54,461  79,116  79,116    14
Resource balance                              3,062        -3,076  10,667  10,667    12

Net income                                   -3,542       -11,748 -10,917 -10,768    10

Net current transfers                            88           981   1,138   1,189     8
                                                                                      8
Current account balance                      -1,923        -6,431   1,564     930     4

Financing items (net)                         2,433         9.578  -1,255  -1,315     2

Changes in net reserves                        -510        -3.147    -309    385     10
                                                                                            88  00    01     02     03      04     05  I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        5,880        14,787  36,320  34,729
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)             1,110.6       2,248.6 8,938.9 9,504.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                              1985          1995    2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                         :omposition of 2004 debt (US$mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed         36,715      124,398  137,024 133,482
  IBRD                                        3,590        12,503   8,943   8,131
  IDA                                           844           756     996   1,000                        A: 8,943 B: 996


Total debt service                            5,823        16,416 -23,647 -24,855
  IBRD                                          384         1,875   1,931   1,865
  IDA                                            12            26      34      34                                           D 18,498

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                               273           501      29     134
  Official creditors                            980         1,129  -2,927  -3,017
  Private creditors                             154         2,303     554    -400
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)       310         4,346  -3,408  -3,118                                            47,945

  Portfoiio equity (net inflows)                  0         1,493   4,409   6,084

World Bank program
  Commitments                                 1,068         1,312     773     900     ,\ iBRD
                                                                                        .                                E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                 777         2,090     649     646     B IDA
                                                                                        -        D -Other multilateral   F. Private
  Principal repayments                          133           975   1,389   1,417     C IMF                                -
                                                                                          ~                              G Short-term
  Net flows                                     644         1,115    -740    -771
  Interestpayments                              262          926      576     482
  Net transfers                                 382           188  -1,316  -1,253


Development Economics                                                                                                           4/10/06



                                                                    72

                               Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis
                        Marine Electronic Highway Demonstration Project


The Project's Strategic Context

1.       The Straits o f Malacca and Singapore are relatively shallow, hazardous to navigation, and
characterized by narrow channels, irregular tides and shiftingbottom topography. The Straits are
also o f global marine biodiversity significance, rich inthe marine fauna and flora that
characterize tropical estuarine environments. Abundant seagrass beds, mangroves, coral reefs
and wetlands enrich the associated coastal marine environments, which are also stopover points
for migratory birds on seasonal transition. Marine natural resource-related activities such as
fishing and coastal tourism, are very important sources ofincome for the millions ofpeople
livinginthe coastal zone.

2.       The Straits are also the preferred international route for the majority o f ships en route
between the Persian Gulf and the Far East, mainly because the two alternative routes (the
Lombok-Makassar and Sunda Straits) add several days the voyage. Recent enhancements in
maritime safety infrastructures and regulatory mechanisms inthe Straits have improved
navigational safety, vessel traffic flow and the overall management o f the Straits as a major
international sea lane. However, the volume o f international traffic passing through the Straits or
calling at its ports is very heavy for such a confined and environmentally-sensitive waterway and
i s increasing steadily. In2001, 146,265 vessels ( ~ 7 5gross tons) called at the port o f Singapore.
Vessel arrivals from 1995 to 2001 increased by an average 6 percent per year for the Port o f
Singapore and 11percent for Port Klang inMalaysia. There i s also substantial volume of cross-
Straits traffic between the three littoral States for trade and fishing. Notwithstanding the current
navigation system, the risk o f ship collisions and groundings and o f consequent environmental
and economic damage i s high.

3,       Ship-based sources contribute 20 percent o f the marine pollution inthe Straits and have
acute impacts on it. The major pollutants from ships are oil, chemicals, liquefied gases, sewage,
garbage, bilge water, ballast water and antifouling paints. The biggest concern is a catastrophic
oil spill due to collision and/or grounding o f a very large tanker, thousands o f which pass
through the Straits each year. An oil spill can cover a vast area o f the sea's surface, as well as
neighbouringbeaches, and its damage can be considerable. The cost o f cleaning-up an oil spill i s
very highand its environmental impact on livingresources, particularly seabirds and near-shore
sessile organisms, i s significantly detrimental.

4.       Unfortunately, recent incremental improvements to existing navigational aids and
facilities inthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore have not reduced the incidence o f ship
collisions and grounding or o f chemical and oil spills. Although risk assessment o f tankers inthe
Straits based on tanker accidents inthe period from 1982 to 1993 showed a relative constant risk
at 0.029 percent (h0.03=95 percent CL) [Malacca Straits: refined risk assessment,
GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Programme, 19991, a steady number o f serious vessel accidents have
occurred inrecent years, such as the `Natuna Sea' (October 2000) and `Singapora Timur' (May
2001). Total compensation claims for the `Natuna Sea' from the three littoral States were over



                                                   73

US$127 million, however only 8.48 percent was paid due to unsubstantiated and disallowed
claims, especially on environmental and fishery-related damage.

5.      Although the three littoral States o f Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic o f
Singapore have relatively good oil spill response capabilities, including oil spill contingency
plans and response facilities and a cooperative response agreement, several recent serious
shippingaccidents havehighlighted the need for quicker andbetter targeted deployment o fspill
response equipment and manpower and more efficient institutional arrangements. Immediate
access to information on the resources at risk, on spill location, and on the locations o f stockpiled
response equipment would also raise the effectiveness and efficiency o f an oil spill response.

The Baseline Scenario

6.      The littoral States o f Republic o f Indonesia, Malaysia and Republic o f Singapore have
demonstrated and continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to navigational safety and
environmental management o f the Straits. Each country has ratified the 1982 UnitedNations
Convention o f the Law o f the Sea (UNCLOS) and International Convention for the Preventiono f
Marine Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78), inaddition to other IMO Conventions dealing
with navigational safety andpollution prevention and control. The three countries are also
signatories to the Tokyo Memorandum o f Understandingon Port State Control, involving
inspection o f vessels for validation o f International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificates.

7.      Singapore initiated a Vessel Traffic Information Service in 1990.This comprehensive
radar and computer-based vessel traffic system, which covers the Singapore Strait, can show the
positions o f up to 1,000 vessels at a time. In 1998, Malaysia commissioned a radar and vessel
traffic monitoring system at Port Klang, covering the Malacca Straits. Inthat year also, a
Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) station was installedby Singapore and
Singapore released Electronic Navigation Charts for the Singapore Strait, which are fully
compliant with international standards. A DGPS station was recently installed by Malaysia in
Lumut Islandnorth of One FathomBank is currently being tested.

8.      A Mandatory Ship Reporting System, STRAITREP, came into force on 1December
1998,which requires designated vessels to report to the marine authorities o f the littoral States
when transiting the Malacca and Singapore Straits via Very HighFrequency voice radio
communication. Designatedvessels entering the operational area report their name, call sign,
IMOidentification number (ifavailable), position, any hazardous cargo and any deficiencies that
could affect navigation. STRAITREP i s divided into nine sectors, each with assigned Very High
Frequency channel. The operators provide information to each participating vessel about specific
and critical situations and traffic movements that could potentially cause problems, as well as
other information relevant to navigational safety.

9.      Under the Baseline (Business-as-Usual) Scenario, the littoral states will continue to
maintain and upgrade existing navigation systems and will establish a few new AIS and DPGS
reference stations to increase area coverage o f maritime communications inthe Straits. They
will also maintain their existing oil spill response capacity and facilities. They will continue to
monitor the environmental condition o f the Straits on an ad hoc basis, but will lack



                                                   74

comprehensive information on the environmental condition o f the Straits and detailed
information on whether individual ships are leaking oil or dumpingbilge water and so will not be
able to effectively deter such behaviour. And will have no mechanism for sharing shippingor
environmental information or agreeingjoint action on it.

10.      Ships passing through the Straits will continue to navigate from paper charts that are
invariably out-of-date. They will utilize the available AIS and DPGS facilities to monitor their
positions, but, due to the relatively highrisk o f collisions and groundings, some will be reluctant
to pass through the Straits at times o f poor visibility, inbad weather or at low tide and will be
forced to load conservatively and to anchor and wait for more favourable navigational conditions
duringbad weather.

11.     Insum, with the increasingvolume ofmaritimetraffic andport development inthe
Straits, as well as the increasing mix o f other uses (e.g., marine recreation, fisheries), the
capacity o f the Straits to handle such shippinggrowth and diverse uses safely and efficiently will
be severely taxed. From the maritime safety standpoint, continued growth inshipping
movements will lead to more congestion and will require more intensive monitoring, especially
along critical areas o f the Traffic Separation Scheme. The effects o f this congestion will be
exacerbated by the Straits tricky weather conditions and its strong tidal regime. This combination
o f factors will cause significant ship delays or diversions, more conservative ship loading and a
higher risk o f collision and grounding. The environmental consequences o f the aforementioned
outcomes will be an increasing number and magnitude o f oil spills and more bilge water
discharges and chemical spills from ships.

The GEF Alternative Scenario

12.      Under the GEF Alternative Scenario, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore will: (a)
establish a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) demonstrationsystem, covering a 100kilometer
section o fthe Straits o f Malacca and Singapore from One Fathom Bank to the Horsburgh
Lighthouse, which roughly corresponds to the Traffic Separation Scheme, and inwhich shipping
i s heavily concentrated and some o f the MEHtechnology i s already in operation; (b) assess its
domestic and global/regional benefits and its financial viability, and, ifthe benefits o f a full scale
MEHfor the entire Straits ofMalaccaand Singaporejustify its cost andifit is financially viable,
(c) prepare a Phase 2 project to extend the demonstration system to entire Straits and facilitate its
replication on the entire Persian Gulfto the Far East shippingroute, and (d) initiate marine
environment information sharing and management collaborationbetweenthe marine and
environmental institutions inthe littoral states andbetween the littoral states.

13.      The MEHdemonstration system will be an integrated and comprehensive regional
network o fmarine information technologies, comprising: (a) continuously updated and highly
accurate Electronic Navigation Charts (ENCs) for the target section o f the Straits; and (b) ship-
based Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS) and ship Automatic
Identification Systems (AIS) installed on and operated by a significant number o f the larger oil
tankers and container ships that regularly use the Straits. The system will be designed from the
end-users' perspective and requirements and will make full use o f new technologies, their
applications and management. Other components will include the review o f alternative



                                                   75

sustainable financing mechanisms, consistent with obligations associated with accession or
ratification o f relevant international conventions, protocols, agreements and treaties; legal,
institutional and administrative arrangements; and political andpublic relations initiatives to
enhance the utility and acceptability o f the MEHsystem and its long-term sustainability.

14.      The GEF Alternative Project will involve the following four key taskdchallenges:

         1. Integration o f existing marine information technologies and capacities within the three
         littoral States with the new and innovative MEHtechnologies to meet marine transport
         and environmental management needs o f the three countries and the users o f the Straits.

         2. Institutional arrangements for installation and operation o f the demonstration system,
         including agreement among participating parties on the administrative, legal, financial
         and operational aspects o f a MEHmanaging organization, which will be responsible for
         implementing this first phase MEHsysteminthe Straits.

         3. Quantification o f the socio-economic benefits to the governments, industry/private
         sector and the coastal communities o f the MEHdemonstration system and of a potential
         full-scale system covering the entire Straits and assessment o f its financial feasibility.

         4. Ifthe conclusions of the socio-economic and feasibility analyses are bothpositive and
         the three littoral states decide to expand the MEHsystem to the entire Straits,
         establishment o f the inter-agency and inter-governmentalpartnerships required to
         develop, finance, construct and operate the MEHas a potentially self-sustaining, revenue-
         generating enterprise.

The GEF Alternative Project's Objective

15.      The project i s the first, demonstration phase o f a potential two-phase program to establish
and achieve widespread use o f a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) system inthe Straits o f
Malacca and Singapore. Its objective i s to demonstrate, by establishing an MEHinthe narrowest
and most congested section o f the Straits, that an MEHfor the entire Straits i s economically and
environmentally justified and is financially viable and, by so doing, to catalyze the establishment
of a MEHfor the entire Straits and its widespread use by ships passing through the Straits,
particularly large crude oil carriers and container ships which pose the greatest risk o f causing
major environmental and economic damage to the Strait's biological resources.

The MEHProgram's GlobalEnvironmentandDevelopmentGoals

16.      The MEHprogram's local and global environmental goals (of which this project i s the
first phase) are to reduce marine pollution and strengthen marine environmental management in
the Straits o f Malacca and Singapore. Its economic/development objective i s to reduce the cost
o f ship transport through the Straits by improving marine navigational safety and efficiency. If
the MEHprogram shows that these goals can be achieved ina cost-effective and sustainable
manner, it i s expected that the program will serve as a global demonstration o f the MEHsystem
and thereby: (a) facilitate its extension to the entire shippingroute from the Persian Gulfthrough



                                                   76

the Chinese Seas to the Yellow Sea andthe Sea of Japan; and (b) trigger its replicationworld-
wide.

IncrementalCosts of the MEHDemonstrationProject

17.      The Incremental Costs ofthe GEF Alternative Project total about US$17.0million. O f
this, private sector ship owners and operators will fund about US$6.0 million for the ship-based
equipment required to utilize the MEH; Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia will fund about
US$2.7 million of investment inupgraded shore facilities to supplythe additional real-time
information it requires; and the GEF i s requested to fundthe balance of US$8.3 million, which
will finance the system's detailed design and the initial start-up and operation of the MEH
management organization.




                                                77

                                    Incremental Cost Matrix

   Component            Baseline            Alternative           Domestic        GlobaVRegional
                                                                   Benefits           Benefits
Integrationo f     Littoral States      Major                Significantly       Less
existing, standard have established     improvement in       improved safety     znvironment   -
marine navigation  various              maritimetraffic      margin for vessel   related damage in
andenvironment     navigational aids    and environmental    operations.         :he Straits o f
systems inthe      and measures,        management                               Malacca and
Straits o fMalacca including            through              Increase in         Singapore due to
and Singapore into mandatory            installationo f an   operational         improved
a Marine           STRAITREP,           integrated,          efficiencies o f    navigational
Electronic         which are            electronic MEH       vessels.            safety.
Highway System.    maintained and       system, which
                   slowly upgraded to   would enable         Reduced             Lower ship fuel
                   marginally           interactive          incidence and       consumption and
                   improve safety o f   tracking, guiding    risko fcollisions,  greenhouse gas
                   navigation, reduce   andmonitoring o f    possibly leading    emissions.
                   ship environmental larger ships           to lower
                   damage and           transiting, crossing insurance           Accessibility and
                   improve              or calling at ports  premiums.           exchange o f
                   monitoring o f       along the                                marine
                   maritime traffic.    congested and        Lower oil spill     environmenta1
                                        confined waters o f  response and        information at
                                        the Straits.         clean-up costs.     any time at low
                                                                                 cost facilitates
                                                             Improved quality    better
                                                             and availability    conservation.
                                                             o f marine
                                                             environment         Enhanced
                                                             information.        monitoring and
                                                                                 forecasting o f
                                                             Greater use o f     oceanographic,
                                                             local port          meteorological
                                                             facilities and      and
                                                             services.           environmental
                                                                                 conditions o f the
                                                             Reduce congestion   Straits, including
                                                             andmore efficient   biodiversity
                                                             vessel traffic      mitigates impact
                                                             management,         o f shipping
                                                             including cross-    accidents.
                                                              Straits traffic.
                                                                                 Better oil spill
                                                                                 detection,
                                                                                 prediction and
                                                                                 more effective
                                                                                 response results
                                                                                 inless
                                                                                 environmental
                                                                                 damage from


                                                 78

                         Baseline         Alternative        Domestic     GlobaVRegional
                                                              Benefits         Benefits
                                                                          ipillsthat do


                                                                          mproved
                                                                          :ompliance with
                                                                          narine
                                                                          mvironment
                                                                          :onventions and
                                                                          ;tandards
Production o f     Small scale         Production of      Same as above   Same as above
electronic charts  Electronic         highresolution
for the MEH        Navigation Charts   Electronic
system's 100       from the Four       Navigation
kilometer section  Nations Joint       Charts for the
o f the            Survey completed    Straits will
Straits.           but not yet         enhance voyage
                   released or used.   planning and
                   Littleuse will be   navigational
                   made of them due    safety as well as
                   to their modest     reducingthe risk
                   quality and         of groundings
                   coverage.           and collisions.
Marine             Advances and        Integration o f     Same as above  Same as above
information        widespread utility  national maritime
technology         o f Information and safety and marine
integration        communication       environment data
                   technology has      under the
                   resulted invarious  multimodal MEH
                   applications inthe  system enables
                   maritime sector     rapid delivery o f
                   including Internet  integrated
                   connectivity and e- informationinreal
                   commerce.           time, particularly
                                       useful for marine
                                       emergency
                                       response and
                                       maritime security.
                   Littoral States     Regional            Same as above   Same as above
MEHoperations      have consistently   cooperation on the
and administrative carried out         establishment and
mechanisms.        regional            operationo fthe
                   cooperation to      MEHsystem
                   address common      develops
                   concerns on         mechanisms on
                   maritime safety     regional
                   andmarine           collaboration and
                   environment         sustainable
                   protection.         financing and



                                                79

   Component             Baseline        Alternative             Domestic        GlobaliRegional
                                                                 Benefits             Benefits
                                      institutional
                                      arrangements that
                                      include the private
                                      sector.
Integrationand     Pollution          Integrated and        Reduced risk o f     Improved
enhancement o f    preventive         muliimodal           shippingaccidents     :mergency
regional marine    measures inthe     approach to           (groundings and      Oesponse (search
environment        Straits are in     pollution             collisions) inports  indrescue,
protection systems place at the       prevention,           and congested sea    iollution
within the MEH     national and       response and          lanes and better     Sesponse) reduces
framework          regional levels,   management in         port maneuvers.      iegative regional
                   which include      the Straits through                        nvironmental
                   navigational       the Marine            Increased cargo      .mpacts o f ship
                   aids, oil spill    Electronic            load due to better   iccidents or
                   contingency        Highway system        definition o f under iollution releases.
                   plans and          will ensure           keel clearance
                   response           effective, efficient  with updatedand      Model o f marine
                   programmes as      andtimely             precise bottom       :nvironment a1
                   well as            interventiono f       soundings.           information
                   environmental      spill incidents.                           management and
                   monitoring.                              Reduced damage       sollaborative
                                      Through               claims associated    response for other
                   Environmental      information and      with oil spills.      sea areas inthe
                   monitoring inthe   communication                              world, especially
                   Straits i s        technology,           Reduce queuing       along congested
                   generally          continuous and        time for vessels at  and busy
                   undertakenon an    real time             entering the         waterways.
                   ad hoc basis,      environmenta1         Traffic Separation
                   including          monitoring i s        Scheme or ports.
                   collection o f     achieved,
                   hydrographic       ensuring reliable     Better usage o f
                   and                and accurate          port facilities.
                   oceanographic      assessments and
                   data.              forecasts.            Reduce red tape in
                                                            data acquisition,
                   Application o f    Availability o f sea- delivery and
                   environmental      basedmonitoring       access.
                   data inthe Straits devices for
                   i s limited,       hydrographic and
                   particularly on    oceanographic
                   transboundary      parameters with
                   issues, including  telemetry
                   pollution          capability
                   response, due      significantly
                   technical and      enhance
                   resources          monitoring
                   limitations.       programs and the
                                      use o f
                                      environmental data


                                                80

   Component              Baseline             Alternative          Domestic       GlobaURegional
                                                                     Benefits           Benefits
                                           for policy and
                                           management
                                           decisions.
Evaluationo f the    No action.            The user States,     The evaluation
economic, social                           private sector       .akes full account
and environmental                          partners and         Ifthe
benefits o f the                           donors contribute    :ost/benefit
demonstration                              to a participatory   issessments o f
MEH                                        evaluation o fthe    :he three
                                           MEH                  yrticipating
                                           Demonstration        governments and
                                           system as a          :he MEH'sprivate
                                           precursor to its     sector partners.
                                           possible expansion
                                           to the entire
                                            Straits.
Feasibility          Few resources         Establishment o f a  Better              dore effective
assessment and       available for the     Revolving Fund       nanagement o f the  :onservation o f the
design o f an        environmenta1          and perhaps multi- :oastal and marine   ;lobally
Environment Fund management o f the        andbilateral         resources o f the   ignificant marine
for the Straits o f  Straits o f Malacca    agreements and      Straits on which    mdcoastal
Malacca and          and Singapore and      arrangements to     many thousands o f  Jiological
Singapore.           no financial           address maritime    local people        :esources o f the
                     contribution from      safety and improve  depend.             Straits o f Malacca
                     users o f the Straits. environmental                           mdSingapore.
                                            management o f the
                                            Straits.
Design o f the       No action.             Ifeconomically      Enhancedvessel      The MEH
Second Phase o f                            andfinancially      operating           Demonstration
the MEHSystem                               feasible and        efficiency, higher  Project's global
covering the entire                         environmentally     navigational safety environment
Straits and                                justified,           standards linked    benefits are
promotion o f its                           development,        with integrated     extended to the
replication on the                          financing and       marine              entire Straits o f
Gulf-FarEast ship                           operation o f a     environment         Malacca and
route and World-                            MEHsystem for       protection and      Singapore,
wide.                                       the entire Straits  sustainable         potentially into the
                                            andpromotiono f     development o f thc East Asian Seas,
                                            its replication     coastal and marine  Bay o f Bengal and
                                            elsewhere.          resources o f the   Indian Ocean, and
                                                                entire Straits.     possibly inother
                                                                                    partso fthe World.




                                                     81


MAP SECTION


                                           100                                101                      102                103             SOUTHEAST ASIA
                This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                  MARINE ELECTRONIC HIGHWAY (MEH)
                Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations
                and any other information shown on
                this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                 DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
                The World Bank Group, any judgment
                on the legal status of any territory, or
                any endorsement or acceptance of
                such boundaries.                                                                                                              BATAM MEH DATA CENTER AND PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                MANAGEMENT OFFICE/DGPS STATION

              4                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC SEPARATION SCHEME
                                                                                            M A L A Y S I A                                   MEH DATA CENTERS

                                              S                                                                                               AIS STATIONS TO BE ESTABLISHED UNDER PROJECT
                                                    t
                                                        r                                                                                     TELEMETRIC TIDAL STATIONS AND OCEAN DATA BUOY

                                                            a                                                                                 AIS STATIONS ESTABLISHED BY MALAYSIA
                                                               i                                   Kuala
                                                                    t                PORT KLANG    Lumpur                                     SINGAPORE DATA CENTER AND VTMIS

              3                                                                                 DATA CENTER AND VTIS         3
                                                                                                 ESTABLISHED BY MALAYSIA

                                                                                                                                             104                              105

                                                                                     o
                                                                                        f               Port
                                                                                                     Dickson




              2                                                                                         M                                                                                   2
                                                                                             Pulau
                                                                                             Rupat           a
                                                                                                                l  a                     SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                       c                 DATA CENTER
                 0                    50                  100             150          DUMAI                            c                AND VTMIS

                                          KILOMETERS                                                                     a                         SINGAPORE

                                           100                                101

                               LAO P.D.R.                                                                                                        BATAM
              MYANMAR
                                         VIETNAM                        PACIFIC   1                                                                                                         1
                         THAILAND                                       OCEAN
                                  CAMBODIA
                                                               PHILIPPINES
                                                                                    I N D O N E S I A
NOVEMBER                             M A L AY S I A   BRUNEI


                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD
                                    SINGAPORE                                          S u m a t e r a
                           Area of                                                                                                                                                                  34371
        2005 INDIAN       main map
             OCEAN                            I N D O N E S I A                                          102                103           104                              105

                                                                                                                                                                  LAO P.D.R.
                                              96                                       98                  100                          102      MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                            VIETNAM                       PACIFIC
             8                                                                                                                                 8           THAILAND                                     OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                    CAMBODIA
                                                                                                      THAILAND                                                                                   PHILIPPINES


                                                         SOUTHEAST ASIA                                                                                Area of main map


                   MARINE ELECTRONIC HIGHWAY (MEH)                                                                                                                                    BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                                                        M A L AY S I A

                                                                                                                                                                      SINGAPORE
                                  DEMONSTRATION PROJECT,
                                     FULL-SCALE MEH PROJECT                                                                                          INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                     OCEAN                      I N D O N E S I A




                                                                                                                                                                BATAM MEH DATA CENTER AND PROJECT
             6                                                                                                                                 6                 MANAGEMENT OFFICE/DGPS STATION

                                                                                                                                                                SINGAPORE DATA CENTER AND VTMIS

                                                                                                                                                                PORT KLANG DATA CENTER AND VTIS

                                                                                                         Georgetown                                             MEH DATA CENTERS
                                                                                                           Pinang                                               TIDAL/AIS STATIONS WITH TELEMETRIC SYSTEM
                                                                         TANJUNG              PULAU                                                                (INDONESIA)
                                                                         JAMBOAY              PERAK                    PULAU PENANG
                                                                                                                       GEORGETOWN
                                                                                                 S                                                              POTENTIAL TIDAL/AIS STATIONS (MALAYSIA)

                                                                                                   t                                                            INTERCONNECTIVITY BETWEEN TIDAL STATIONS/
                                                                                                                                                                   AIS STATIONS WITH BATAM
                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                     a                                                          PROPOSED AIS STATIONS AND TELEMETRIC
                                                                                                                                                                   TIDAL STATIONS (INDONESIA) UNDER
                                                                                                      i                                                            FULL-SCALE MEH PROJECT
                                                                                                       t                                                        AREA WITH AIS STATIONS AND POSSIBLE

             4                                                                                                                                                    EXPANSION TOWARD PENANG
                                                                                                                PULAU JARAK                     4
                                                                                                                PULAU BERHALA                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                            Medan
                                                                                                                   o                                                                104
                                                                                                                     f         PORT KLANG DATA CENTER
                                                                                                                                             AND VTIS
                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                        Kuala   M A L A Y S I A
                                                Simeulu                                      u  m                            M         Lumpur

                                                                                                   a                             a
                                                                                                    te                              l a
                                                                                                      r                         PULAU    c
                                                                                                       a                        RUPAT       c
             2                                                                                                                               a                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                      SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                                DUMAI                                                DATA CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                      AND VTMIS

                                                                                                                                                                                          SINGAPORE

               0        50          100         150           200        250       Nias

NOVEMBER
                                     KILOMETERS                                                           I N D O N E S I A                                                       BATAM                           IBRD
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                      34372
        2005  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
              acceptance of such boundaries.                                            98                  100                          102                                     104

