Page  1
36981 
 
Agency’s Project ID:
 GE-P068133 
Country:
 Regional (Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore) 
Project Title: 
Marine Electronic Highway
 Demonstration 
GEF Agency: 
World Bank 
 
Other Executing Agency/Agencies: 
International 
Maritime Organization (IMO) 
Duration:
 5
years (2004-2008) 
GEF Focal Area: 
International Waters 
 
GEF Operational Program: 
#10
 
GEF Strategic Priority:
 Demonstration of an 
innovative marine navigation technology that will 
reduce ship-based pollution of international waters 
through a public-private partnership.   
Estimated Starting Date:
 April 2004  
Contribution to Key Indicators of the Business Plan: 
 
One of the 3-4 planned pilot demonstrations of public-private IW partnerships  
Record of endorsement on behalf of the participating Governments: 
Dr. Effendy Sumardja, Ministry of Environment, Indonesia 
–
6/9/03 
Dr. Nadzri Yahaya, Ministry of Science, Technology & Environment, Malaysia – 6/16/03   
Mr. Chen Tze Penn, Director General, Maritime and Port Authority, Singapore – 6/2/03 
 
Approval on behalf of the World Bank: This proposal has been prepared in accordance 
with GEF policies and procedures and meets the standards of the GEF Project Review 
Criteria for work program inclusion
.
…………………………………                                           
Contact person: Robin Broadfield
 
Mr. Lars Vidaeus, GEF Executive Coordinator,        Tel: (USA) 202 473 4355 
The World Bank, June 20, 2003                                 E-mail: Rbroadfield@worldbank.org 
Financing Plan (in US$): 
GEF Project/Component
Project  
    8,000,000 
 
PDF-A 
n/a           
PDF-B 473,000 
PDF-C n/a 
Sub-total GEF:
 
8,473,000
Co-financing
Intertanko 5,600,000 
Governments           1,900,000 
 
Subtotal Cofinancing 
7,500,000
TOTAL Project financing: 15,973,000
Financing for associated activities if 
any
Not applicable
 
Page  2
1. Project 
Summary 
Program Context and its Development and Global Environment Goals
The coastal and marine natural resources of south-
east Asia’s Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore (which is bordered by Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore) are estimated to 
have a net economic value of over $5 billion. The Straits is also one of the World’s most 
important and congested international sea lanes, linking east Asia to the Indian Ocean, 
the Persian Gulf and beyond. The Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) Demonstration 
Project is the first phase of a potential two-phase MEH Development Program for the 
Straits that will help the littoral countries protect the Straits’ natural resources from the 
marine environmental threats, particularly oil and chemical spills and bilge water 
discharges, posed by the many large ships, particularly oil tankers, that pass through it.  
 
The proposed Program’s economic development goal is to improve the efficiency, safety 
and environmental sustainability of marine transport through the Straits. Its global 
environment goal is conservation of the Strait’s biologically-rich marine and coastal 
ecosystems. The MEH Program would achieve these goals by: (a) reducing the frequency 
of ship collisions and groundings in the Strait's congested sea lanes; (b) making marine 
navigation in the Straits safer and more cost-effective; (c) deterring illegal bilge water 
and other ship waste releases; and (d) establishing a MEH-supported fund to co-finance 
both the MEH system and coastal and marine resource conservation in the Straits.  If the 
Straits MEH Program achieves its regional objectives and goals, it should stimulate 
extension of the MEH to the entire Persian Gulf to East Asia shipping route and its 
replication on other major World shipping routes. 
 
Project Objectives  
The objective of the first phase of the MEH Program - the Marine Electronic Highway 
Demonstration Project -  is to establish whether or not a MEH system for the Straits of 
Malacca and Singapore is economically and environmentally justified and is financially 
sustainable. If it is, the project will also help the littoral states prepare the second phase of 
the MEH Program, which would extend the system to the entire Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore.  
 
Outputs
The MEH demonstration project will produce the following outputs: 
 
Output 1: Physical establishment of a Marine Electronic Highway system, covering the 
narrowest and most congested 100 km section of the Straits of Malacca and Singapore 
from One Fathom Bank near Port Klang, Malaysia, to the Horsburgh Lighthouse at the 
eastern end of the Singapore Strait (roughly the area of the Strait’s existing ship traffic 
separation scheme and the section within which some parts of the MEH technology 
already exist). The physical components of the MEH system will comprise: (a) a network 
of electronic navigational charts (ENCs) for this section of the Straits; and (b) ship-based 
Page  3
Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS), Differential Global 
Positioning Systems (DGPS) and Automatic Identification Systems (AIS), installed on 
and operated by at least 60 large oil tankers and 50 large container vessels that regularly 
transit the Straits, and as many as possible of the larger local vessels, such as passenger 
ferries, that traverse the Straits
.
Output 2:  A regional Marine Electronic Highway organization, located in one of the 
sponsoring countries, that will coordinate the development of and operate the MEH 
demonstration system, strengthen national capacities in maritime safety and marine 
environment protection, help integrate national marine environment monitoring systems 
and data flows, facilitate the marine environment management collaboration between the 
three participating countries and their marine and environment institutions (through a 
series of national coastal/marine environment demonstration activities), and promote 
stakeholder awareness of the MEH system’s features and benefits. 
 
Output 3:  An evaluation of the financial, economic and legal feasibility and the 
environmental benefits of a larger MEH system covering the entire Straits of Malacca 
and Singapore, and, if the conclusion of this feasibility analysis is positive and the 
participating governments are supportive of developing such a system: 
 
Output 4: The technical design of and the proposed legal, institutional and financing 
arrangements for a full-scale MEH system covering the entire Straits, and a feasibility 
study of a potential Marine Environment Fund that would support local marine 
environmental conservation activities and be co-financed by users of the MEH system.
 
Key Performance Indicators
As befits a demonstration project, the project’s key performance indicators relate to the 
completion and evaluation of the MEH demonstration. They comprise: (a) full-time 
operation of a reliable, state-of-the-art MEH system covering the target 100 km section of 
the Straits of Malacca and Singapore; (b) use of the system by a significant proportion of 
the large crude oil tankers and container ships that pass through the Straits; (c) enhanced 
and demonstrated capacity of the maritime management staff of the three participating 
countries to jointly promote maritime safety and marine environment protection; (d) an 
initial assessment of the marine pollution prevention and ship operational benefits of the 
MEH demonstration system; (e) design of a proposed financing mechanism for the MEH 
system and for a regional Marine Environment Conservation Fund; and (f) a professional 
evaluation of the financial, economic and legal feasibility and potential environmental 
benefits of a full-scale MEH system covering the entire Straits of Malacca and Singapore.   
2. Country 
Ownership 
(a) Country Eligibility 
Indonesia and Malaysia are eligible for GEF assistance.  Singapore is not eligible, and, 
although it will participate actively in the project, it will not receive any GEF resources 
through it.   
Page  4
(b) Country Driven-ness
All three states have demonstrated a strong commitment to the project’s objectives of 
promoting navigational safety and conservation of their marine environments, as 
evidenced by their ratification of the 1982 UNCLOS and MARPOL 73/78 and the other 
IMO Conventions related to navigational safety and marine pollution prevention and 
control.  The three countries are also signatories to the Tokyo Memorandum of 
Understanding on Port State Control, involving inspection of vessels for the International 
Oil Pollution Prevention Certificate.  Over the years, the three littoral States have made 
substantial investments in navigational safety facilities, in marine pollution prevention, 
and in oil spill response and clean-up, following several recent spill incidents due to 
tanker collisions and groundings in the Straits. 
 
The three countries identified the project as a joint marine environment management 
priority through the diagnostic work and regional consultations supported by the 
GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Programme for the Prevention and Management of Marine 
Pollution in the East Asia Seas. They have designed it to build on their existing marine 
management systems, which include Singapore’s Vessel Traffic Information Service, a 
comprehensive radar and computer-based vessel traffic system covering the Singapore 
Strait, Malaysia’s marine radar and vessel traffic monitoring system and Indonesia’s 
more modest marine navigation facilities.  
 
The three countries’ GEF Focal Points and marine management institutions all endorsed 
the GEF MEH Project Concept and PDF B request that was prepared by the IMO, in 
collaboration with the World Bank. After the PDF B grant was approved, they 
established a joint Project Steering Committee (PSC) to guide the project preparation 
process. The PSC has hosted two national workshops, one regional workshop and three 
regional meetings during the initial preparation process. The three GEF Focal Points have 
recently re-confirmed their countries’ commitment to the project by endorsing the GEF 
Project Brief. 
 
3. 
Program & Policy Conformity 
(a) Project Design
Consistent with the GEF’s Operational Strategy for International Waters, he proposed 
project emerged from a GEF-supported action-planning process to identify and address 
priority trans-boundary concerns in the East Asian Seas.  It is also consistent with one of 
the specific objectives of the GEF's Operational Program # 10 - the Contaminant-Based 
International Waters OP - as it will test the feasibility of overcoming the barriers to the 
adoption of best-practice technology in marine navigation and ship-based pollution 
control, which, if feasible, will reduce the contamination of the international waters. The 
project is an innovative partnership between the GEF, three governments, several 
international maritime organizations, and the private shipping industry, and it thus 
consistent with one of the GEF's key strategic objectives in the International Waters 
Focal Area, which is to promote public-private partnerships that benefit the global 
environment. Moreover, the project is consistent with strategic priorities 1 and 3 of the 
GEF International Waters program over the period 2003-06 in that it will: (a) facilitate 
Page  5
the efforts of the collaborating nations to implement policy/legal/institutional reforms and 
stress-reducing investments previously agreed with GEF assistance to address specific 
trans-boundary issues; and (b) test the feasibility of applying innovative marine 
navigation technology to reduce ship-based pollution of a globally-significant trans-
boundary water body. 
(b) Sustainability (including financial sustainability)
The project’s key objective is to determine if a Marine Electronic Highway for the entire 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore is institutionally, economically and financially 
sustainable.  The three participating countries’ and the shipping industry’s strong 
commitment to marine safety in the Straits and conservation of its marine and coastal 
resources, as evidenced by the policy and investment measures they have already 
adopted, strongly suggest that both the demonstration and full-scale MEH systems will be 
sustainable. The task of determining if this is indeed the case will be achieved by: (a) 
conducting a detailed institutional, economic and financial feasibility analysis of  a 
potential full-scale MEH system for the entire Straits, based on the results of the 
Demonstration Project; and (b) determining if all the key stakeholders, particularly the 
host governments and major shipping interests that use the Straits, are fully committed to 
develop, finance and sustainably manage of a full-scale MEH system.  
(c) Replicability 
If the evaluation of the Demonstration Project (Output 3) shows that a full-scale MEH 
system for the entire Straits Malacca and Singapore is economically and environmentally 
justified and financially feasible, the project’s Output # 4 will be a replication plan to 
extend the system to the entire Straits.  The project’s awareness sub-component will also 
disseminate the MEH’s technical features and its cost/benefit assessment World-wide to 
encourage its  replication on the remainder of the Persian Gulf to Far East shipping route 
and to in other parts of the developed and developing World.  The Government of Japan 
has expressed serious interest in expanding the MEH system eastwards from the 
Singapore Strait and will collaborate with the Demonstration Project in order to assess 
the feasibility of that expansion.   
(d) Stakeholder Involvement 
All the major stakeholders in the MEH Demonstration Project have been involved in its 
preparation and will be involved in its implementation. The key stakeholders are the  
national governments of the three participating countries of Indonesia, Malaysia and 
Singapore, which are coordinating the project design and will co-finance some of the 
project’s expert inputs and shore-based facilities.  They are represented by their 
Ministries responsible for marine management and for the environment. The Government 
of Japan and the Coast Guard Services of Canada and Japan have observed the 
preparation process. The shipping industry is involved through The International 
Association of Independent Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO), the International Chamber 
of Shipping and the Oil Companies International Marine Forum, and their members will 
finance the project’s ship-based equipment. The project preparation process has been 
organized and technically supported by the International Maritime Organization, with 
assistance from the International Hydrographic Organization.  The project will not 
Page  6
involve any major on-shore physical investments, but the local governments responsible 
for its few small-scale investments will be involved in their site selection, design and 
installation.  A number of private sector digital technology and telecommunications 
providers will be involved in the implementation phase. 
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of the Demonstration Projec
t’s marine safety, operational 
performance and environmental benefits is a key aspect of the project, for which a 
specific component is dedicated. Monitoring and evaluation of the project’s benefits will 
be the
key activity in year 4, the first year in which the complete demonstration system 
will be operational.  The MEH Management Unit will be responsible for the monitoring 
and evaluation activities. It will assess the demonstration system’s technical performance 
and its impact on, 
inter alia
:
(a) the risk of ship collisions and frequency of illegal waste 
dumping incidents; (b) ship loading and transit delays; (c) ship Captains’ perceptions of 
the operational benefits of the system; and (d) marine environmental information 
exchange and marine management collaboration between the marine and environmental 
institutions within the littoral states and between the states. 
4. 
Financing Modality and Cost-Effectiveness 
As the MEH is a demonstration project, the outcomes of which are uncertain, the 
project’s GEF co-financing will be provided in the form of a grant.  Roughly 50% of 
the project’s costs will be funded by non-GEF sources, primarily private shipping 
companies and the participating governments.  All three governments will also 
contribute technical expertise and other in-kind inputs.  The GEF is requested to co-
finance the remaining 50% of project costs, which is considered to be reasonable 
share of the project risks. 
5. 
Institutional Coordination & Support
 
(a) Core commitments & Linkages  
The proposed proje
ct is consistent with the World Bank’s Environment Strategy, one of 
the three key objectives of which is to help Bank client countries protect the quality of the 
regional and global commons.  It is also consistent with the East Asia Regional Vice 
President’s strategy of expanding Bank assistance for regional projects that promote 
sustainable use of shared natural resources.   
 
With respect to Indonesia, the MEH project would contribute to the objectives of the 
World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy in two ways: (i) in helping secure a safe and 
cost-effective maritime transport environment to and from Indonesia's main seaports and 
external trade gateways, which will promote economic growth objectives and private 
sector development; and (ii) in helping improve natural resource management and 
environmental protection, in particular in marine ecosystems. There is no CAS for 
Malaysia at this time, and the Bank does not operate in Singapore. 
Page  7
(b) Consultation, Coordination and Collaboration between IAs,  and IAs and EAs, if 
appropriate
The project was identified by the GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Program for the Prevention 
and Management of Marine Pollution in the East Asian Seas, the Secretariat of which 
invited the World Bank, in collaboration with the IMO, to help the littoral countries 
design and implement it. The IMO has coordinated the preparation process, and the 
Program’s successor, the Partnership in Environmental Management for the Seas of East 
Asia (PEMSEA), has closely observed and helped to guide the preparation process.  
 
Annex A: Incremental Cost Analysis 
The Project’s Strategic Context
1. 
 
The Straits of Malacca and Singapore are relatively shallow, hazardous to 
navigation, and characterized by narrow channels, irregular tides and shifting bottom 
topography. The Straits are also of global marine biodiversity significance, rich in the 
marine fauna and flora that characterize tropical estuarine environments. Abundant 
seagrass beds, mangroves, coral reefs and wetlands enrich the associated coastal marine 
environments, which are also stopover points for migratory birds on seasonal transition. 
Marine natural resource-related activities such as fishing and coastal tourism, are very 
important sources of income for the millions of people living in the coastal zone.  
 
2. 
 
The Straits are also the preferred international route for the majority of 
ships en route between the Persian Gulf and the Far East, mainly because the two 
alternative routes (the Lombok-Makassar and Sunda Straits) add several days the voyage. 
Recent enhancements in maritime safety infrastructures and regulatory mechanisms in the 
Straits have improved navigational safety, vessel traffic flow and the overall management 
of the Straits as a major international sea lane. However, the volume of international 
traffic passing through the Straits or calling at its ports is very heavy for such a confined 
and environmentally-sensitive waterway and is increasing steadily.  In 2001, 146,265 
vessels (>75 GT) called at the port of Singapore. Vessel arrivals from 1995 to 2001 
increased by an average 6.% per year for the Port of Singapore and 11% for Port Klang in 
Malaysia. There is also substantial volume of cross-Straits traffic between the three 
littoral States for trade and fishing. Notwithstanding the current navigation system, the 
risk of ship collisions and groundings and of consequent environmental and economic 
damage is high.  
 
3. 
 
Ship-based sources contribute 20% of the marine pollution in the Straits 
and have acute impacts on it. The major pollutants from ships are oil, chemicals, 
liquefied gases, sewage, garbage, bilge water, ballast water and antifouling paints.  The 
biggest concern is a catastrophic oil spill due to collision and/or grounding of a very large 
tanker, thousands of which pass through the Straits each year.  An oil spill can cover a 
Page  8
vast area of the sea’s surface, as well as neighbouring beaches, and its damage can be 
considerable.  The cost of cleaning-up an oil spill is very high and its environmental 
impact on living resources, particularly sea birds and near-shore sessile organisms, is 
significantly detrimental.   
 
4. 
 
Unfortunately, recent incremental improvements to existing navigational 
aids and facilities in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore have not reduced the incidence 
of ship collisions and grounding or of chemical and oil spills. Although risk assessment 
of tankers in the Straits based on tanker accidents in the period from 1982 to 1993 
showed a relative constant risk at 0.029% (± 0.03=95%CL) [Malacca Straits: refined risk 
assessment, GEF/UNDP/IMO Regional Programme, 1999], a steady number of serious 
vessel accidents have occurred in recent years, such as the ‘Natuna Sea’ (October 2000) 
and ‘Singapora Timur’ (May 2001). Total compensation claims for the ‘Natuna Sea’ 
from the 3 littoral States were over US$127 million, but only 8.48% was paid due to 
unsubstantiated and disallowed claims, especially on environmental and fishery-related 
damage. 
 
5. 
 
Although the three littoral States of Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore 
have relatively good oil spill response capabilities, including oil spill contingency plans 
and response facilities and a cooperative response agreement, several recent serious 
shipping accidents have highlighted the need for quicker and better targeted deployment 
of spill response equipment and manpower and more efficient institutional arrangements. 
Immediate access to information on the resources at risk, on spill location, and on the 
locations of stockpiled response equipment would also raise the effectiveness and 
efficiency of an oil spill response.  
 
The Baseline Scenario
6. 
 
The littoral States of Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore have 
demonstrated and continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to navigational safety 
and environmental management of the Straits.  Each country has ratified the 1982 
UNCLOS and MARPOL 73/78, in addition to other IMO Conventions dealing with 
navigational safety and pollution prevention and control.  The three countries are also 
signatories to the Tokyo Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control, involving 
inspection of vessels for validation of International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificates.   
 
7. 
 
Singapore initiated a Vessel Traffic Information Service in 1990. This 
comprehensive radar and computer-based vessel traffic system, which covers the 
Singapore Strait, can show the positions of up to 1,000 vessels at a time.  In 1998, 
Malaysia commissioned a radar and vessel traffic monitoring system at Port Klang, 
covering the Malacca Straits. In that year also, a Differential Global Positioning System 
(DGPS) station was installed by Singapore and Singapore released Electronic Navigation 
Charts for the Singapore Strait, which are fully compliant with international standards.  A 
DGPS station was recently installed by Malaysia in Lumut Island north of One Fathom 
Bank is currently being tested. 
 
Page  9
8. 
 
A Mandatory Ship Reporting System, STRAITREP, came into force on 1 
December 1998, which requires designated vessels to report to the marine authorities of 
the littoral States when transiting the Malacca and Singapore Straits via VHF voice radio 
communication.  Designated vessels entering the operational area report their name, call 
sign, IMO identification number (if available), position, any hazardous cargo and any 
deficiencies that could affect navigation.  STRAITREP is divided into nine sectors, each 
with assigned VHF channel. The operators provide information to each participating 
vessel about specific and critical situations and traffic movements that could potentially 
cause problems, as well as other information relevant to navigational safety.  
 
9. 
 
Under the Baseline (Business-as-Usual) Scenario, the littoral states will 
continue to maintain and upgrade existing navigation systems and will establish a few 
new AIS and DPGS reference stations to increase area coverage of maritime 
communications in the Straits.  They will also maintain their existing oil spill response 
capacity and facilities. They will continue to monitor the environmental condition of the 
Straits on an ad hoc basis, but will lack comprehensive information on the environmental 
condition of the Straits and detailed information on whether individual ships are leaking 
oil or dumping bilge water and so will not be able to effectively deter such behaviour. 
And will have no mechanism for sharing shipping or environmental information or 
agreeing joint action on it. 
 
10. 
Ships passing through the Straits will continue to navigate from paper charts that 
are invariably out-of-date.  They will utilize the available AIS and DPGS facilities to 
monitor their positions, but, due to the relatively high risk of collisions and groundings, 
some will be reluctant to pass through the Straits at times of poor visibility, in bad 
weather or at low tide and will be forced to load conservatively and to anchor and wait 
for more favourable navigational conditions during bad weather. 
 
11. 
In sum, with the increasing volume of maritime traffic and port development in 
the Straits, as well as the increasing mix of other uses (e.g., marine recreation, fisheries), 
the capacity of the Straits to handle such shipping growth and diverse uses safely and 
efficiently will be severely taxed. From the maritime safety standpoint, continued growth 
in shipping movements will lead to more congestion and will require more intensive 
monitoring, especially along critical areas of the TSS. The effects of this congestion will 
be exacerbated by the Straits tricky weather conditions and its strong tidal regime. This 
combination of factors will cause significant ship delays or diversions, more conservative 
ship loading and a higher risk of collision, allision and grounding. The environmental 
consequences of the aforementioned outcomes will be an increasing number and 
magnitude of oil spills and more bilge water discharges and chemical spills from ships.   
 
The GEF Alternative Scenario
12. 
Under the GEF Alternative Scenario, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore will: (a) 
establish a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) demonstration system, covering a 100km 
section of the Straits of Malacca and Singapore from One Fathom Bank to the Horsburgh 
Lighthouse, which roughly corresponds to the Traffic Separation Scheme, and in which 
Page  10
shipping is heavily concentrated and some of the MEH technology is already in 
operation; (b) assess its domestic and global/regional benefits and its financial viability, 
and, if the benefits of a full scale MEH for the entire Straits of Malacca and Singapore 
justify its cost and if it is financially viable, (c) prepare a Phase 2 project to extend the 
demonstration system to entire Straits and facilitate its replication on the entire Persian 
Gulf to the Far East shipping route, and (d) initiate marine environment information 
sharing and management collaboration between the marine and environmental 
institutions in the littoral states and between the littoral states. 
 
13. 
The MEH demonstration system will be an integrated and comprehensive regional 
network of marine information technologies, comprising: (a) continuously updated and 
highly accurate electronic marine navigation charts (ENCs) for the target section of the 
Straits; and (b) ship-based Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS) 
and ship Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) installed on and operated by a 
significant number of the larger oil tankers and container ships that regularly use the 
Straits. The system will be designed from the end-users' perspective and requirements 
and will make full use of new technologies, their applications and management. Other 
components will include the review of alternative sustainable financing mechanisms, 
consistent with obligations associated with accession or ratification of relevant 
international conventions, protocols, agreements and treaties; legal, institutional and 
administrative arrangements; and political and public relations initiatives to enhance the 
utility and acceptability of the MEH system and its long-term sustainability. 
 
14. 
The GEF Alternative project will involve the following four key tasks/challenges: 
 
1. Integration of existing marine information technologies and capacities within 
the three littoral States with the new and innovative MEH technologies to meet 
marine transport and environmental management needs of the three countries and 
the users of the Straits. 
 
2. Institutional arrangements for installation and operation of the demonstration 
system, including agreement among participating parties on the administrative, 
legal, financial and operational aspects of a MEH managing organization, which 
will be responsible for implementing this first phase MEH system in the Straits. 
 
3. Quantification of the socio-economic benefits to the governments, 
industry/private sector and the coastal communities of the MEH demonstration 
system and of a potential full-scale system covering the entire Straits and 
assessment of its financial feasibility. 
 
4. If the conclusions of the socio-economic and feasibility analyses are both 
positive and the three littoral states decide to expand the MEH system to the entire 
Straits, establishment of the inter-agency and inter-governmental partnerships 
required to develop, finance, construct and operate the MEH as a potentially self-
sustaining, revenue-generating enterprise. 
 
Page  11
The GEF Alternative Project’s Objective 
15. 
The project is the first, demonstration phase of a potential two-phase program to 
establish and achieve widespread use of a Marine Electronic Highway (MEH) system in 
the Straits of Malacca and Singapore. Its objective is to demonstrate, by establishing an 
MEH in the narrowest and most congested section of the Straits, that an MEH for the 
entire Straits is economically and environmentally justified and is financially viable and, 
by so doing, to catalyze the establishment of a MEH for the entire Straits and its 
widespread use by ships passing through the Straits, particularly large crude oil carriers 
and container ships which pose the greatest risk of causing major environmental and 
economic damage to the Strait’s biological resources.  
 
The MEH Program’s Global Environment and Development Goals
16. 
The MEH program's local and global environmental goals (of which this project 
is the first phase) are to reduce marine pollution and strengthen marine environmental 
management in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore. Its economic/development 
objective is to reduce the cost of ship transport through the Straits by improving marine 
navigational safety and efficiency. If the MEH program shows that these goals can be 
achieved in a cost-effective and sustainable manner, it is expected that the program will 
serve as a global demonstration of the MEH system and thereby: (a) facilitate its 
extension to the entire shipping route from the Persian Gulf through the Chinese Seas to 
the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan; and (b) trigger its replication world-wide. 
 
Incremental Costs of the MEH Demonstration Project
17. 
The Incremental Costs of the GEF Alternative Project total about $16.2 million.  
Of this, ship owners and operators will fund about $5 million for the ship-based 
equipment required to utilize the MEH; Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia will fund 
about $3.2 million of investment in upgraded shore facilities to supply the additional real-
time information it requires; and the GEF is requested to fund the balance of $8 million, 
which will finance the system's detailed design and the initial start-up and operation of 
the MEH management organization.  
Page  12
Incremental Cost Matrix 
Component 
Baseline 
Alternative 
Domestic Benefits 
 Global/Regional Benefits 
 
Integration of existing, 
standard marine 
navigation and 
environment systems 
in the Straits of 
Malacca and 
Singapore into a  
Marine Electronic 
Highway System 
Littoral States have 
established various 
navigational aids and 
measures, including 
mandatory STRAITREP, 
which are maintained and 
slowly upgraded to 
marginally improve safety 
of navigation, reduce ship 
environmental damage 
and improve monitoring of 
maritime traffic. 
Major improvement in 
maritime traffic and 
environmental management 
through installation of an 
integrated, electronic MEH 
system, which would enable 
interactive tracking, guiding 
and monitoring of larger 
ships transiting, crossing or 
calling at ports along the 
congested and confined 
waters of the Straits. 
Significantly imroved safety 
margin for vessel operations. 
 
Increase in operational 
efficiencies of vessels. 
 
Reduced incidence and risk of 
collisions, possibly leading to 
lower insurance premiums. 
 
Lower oil spill response and 
clean-up costs. 
 
Improved quality and 
availability of marine 
environment information. 
 
Greater use of local port   
facilities and services. 
 
Reduce congestion and more 
efficient vessel traffic 
management, including cross-
Straits traffic. 
Less environment-related damage in the 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore due to 
improved navigational safety. 
 
Lower ship fuel consumption and 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
Accessibility and exchange of marine 
environmental information at any time at 
low cost facilitates better conservation. 
 
Enhanced monitoring and forecasting of 
oceanographic, meteorological and 
environmental conditions of the Straits, 
including biodiversity mitigates impact of 
shipping accidents. 
 
Better oil spill detection, prediction and 
more effective response results in less 
environmental damage from spills that do 
occur. 
 
Improved compliance with marine 
environment conventions and standards. 
 
Production of 
electronic charts for 
the MEH system’s 
100km section of the 
Straits.  
Small scale ENCs from 
the Four Nations Joint 
Survey completed but not 
yet released or used. Little 
use will be made of them 
due to their  modest 
quality and  coverage. 
Production of high 
resolution ENCs for the 
Straits will enhance voyage 
planning and navigational 
safety as well as reducing 
the risk of groundings and 
collisions 
Same as above 
Same as above 
Marine information 
technology 
integration 
Advances and widespread 
utility of Information and 
communication technology 
has resulted in various 
applications in the 
maritime sector including 
Internet connectivity and 
e-commerce. 
Integration of national 
maritime safety and 
marine environment data 
under the multimodal 
MEH system enables 
rapid delivery of 
integrated  information in 
real time , particularly 
useful for marine 
emergency response and 
maritime security.  
Same as above 
Same as above 
 
Page  13
Component 
Baseline 
Alternative 
Domestic Benefits 
Global/Regional Benefits 
Development of MEH 
operations and 
administrative 
mechanisms 
Littoral States have 
consistently carried out 
regional cooperation to 
address common concerns 
on maritime safety and 
marine environment 
protection. 
Regional cooperation on the 
establishment and operation of 
the MEH system develops 
mechanisms on regional 
collaboration and sustainable 
financing and institutional 
arrangements that include the 
private sector. 
Same as above 
Same as above 
Integration and 
enhancement of 
regional marine 
environment 
protection systems 
within the MEH 
framework 
Pollution preventive 
measures in the Straits are 
in place at the national and 
regional levels, which 
include navigational aids, 
oil spill contingency plans 
and response programmes 
as well as environmental 
monitoring.  
 
Environmental monitoring 
in the Straits is generally 
undertaken on an 
ad hoc
 
basis, including collection 
of hydrographic and 
oceanographic data. 
 
Applications of 
environmental data in the 
Straits are limited, 
particularly on 
transboundary issues, 
including pollution 
response, due technical 
and resources limitations. 
Integrated and multimodal 
approach to pollution 
prevention, response and 
management in the Straits 
through the Marine Electronic 
Highway system will ensure 
effective, efficient and timely 
intervention of spill incidents 
 
Through information and 
communication technology 
(ICT), continuous and real 
time environmental monitoring 
is achieved, ensuring reliable 
and accurate assessments 
and forecasts. 
 
Availability of sea-based 
monitoring devices for 
hydrographic and 
oceanographic parameters 
with telemetry capability 
significantly enhance 
monitoring programs and the 
use of environmental data for 
policy and management 
decisions. 
Reduced risk of shipping 
accidents (groundings and 
collisions) in ports and 
congested sea lanes and 
better port manoeuvres. 
 
Increased cargo load due to 
better definition of under keel 
clearance with updated and 
precise bottom soundings. 
 
Reduced damage claims 
associated with oil spills. 
 
Reduce queuing time for 
vessels at entering the TSS 
or ports. 
 
Better usage of port facilities. 
 
Reduce red tape in data 
acquisition, delivery and 
access. 
Enhanced regional and international 
cooperation to mitigate transboundary 
marine pollution issues leading to less 
environmental damage. 
 
Promotion of sustainable resource use. 
 
Improved emergency response (search 
and rescue, pollution response) reduces 
negative regional environmental 
impacts of ship accidents or pollution 
releases. 
 
Model of marine environmental 
information management and 
collaborative response for other sea 
areas in the world, especially along 
congested and busy waterways. 
 
Evaluation of the 
economic, social and 
evironmental benefits 
of the demonstration 
MEH 
No action 
The user States, private sector 
partners and donors contribute 
to a participatory evaluation of 
the MEH Demonstration 
system as a precursor to its 
possible expansion to the 
entire Straits.  
The evaluation takes full 
account of the cost/benefit 
assessments of the three 
participating governments 
and the MEH’s private sector 
partners. 
International partners - the GEF, Japan 
and the World Bank, contribute to and 
learn from the evaluation. This enhances 
their ownership of it and, if is positive, 
promotes support for the second phase 
MEH and achievement of its global 
environment benefits.  
Page  14
Feasibility assessment 
and design of an 
Environment Fund for 
the Straits of Malacca 
and Singapore 
Few resources available  
for the environmental 
management of the Straits 
of Malacca and Singapore 
and no financial 
contribution from users of 
the Straits 
Establishment of a Revolving 
Fund and perhaps multi- and 
bilateral agreements and 
arrangements to address 
maritime safety and improve 
environmental management of 
the Straits.  
Better management of the 
coastal and marine resources of 
the Straits on which many 
thousands of local people 
depend. 
More effective conservation of the globally 
significant marine and coastal biological 
resources of the Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore. 
Design of the Second 
Phase of the MEH 
System covering the 
entire Straits and 
promotion of its 
replication on the Gulf-
Far East ship route and 
World-wide. 
No action 
If economically and financially 
feasibile and environmentally 
justified, development, 
financing and operation of a 
MEH system for the entire 
Straits and promotion of its 
replication elsewhere.  
Enhanced vessel operating  
efficiency, higher navigational 
safety standards linked with 
integrated marine environment 
protection and sustainable 
development of the coastal and 
marine resources of the entire 
Straits. 
The MEH Demonstration Project’s global 
environment benefits are extended to the 
entire Straits of Malacca and Singapore, 
potentially into the East Asian Seas, Bay of 
Bengal and Indian Ocean, and possibly in 
other parts of the World. 
 
Page  15
Annex B: Project Logical Framework 
 
Hierarchy of Objectives 
Key Performance 
Indicators 
Data Collection Strategy 
 
Critical Assumptions 
Sector-related CAS Goal: 
Sector Indicators: 
Sector/ country reports: 
(from Goal to Bank Mission)
Conserve natural resource base of the 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore to 
reduce poverty of coastal people. 
 
Condition of coastal and marine 
resources. 
Environmental assessments 
 
 
GEF Operational Program: 
Outcome / Impact Indicators: 
 
 
Reduce ship-based pollution of a 
biologically rich shared water body. 
Frequency and severity of ship-based 
environmental damage to marine 
resources.  
Littoral states marine incident and 
pollution monitoring systems. 
The majority of larger ships use the MEH 
system. 
 
The system is capable of reducing 
accidents and spills 
 
The system is financially sustainable 
Global Objective: 
Outcome / Impact 
Indicators: 
Project reports: 
(from Objective to Goal) 
Demonstrate  the Marine Electronic 
Highway’s technical functionalities on 
navigation safety and marine environment 
protection for the Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore 
Fully operational MEH infrastructure (pilot) 
in strategic areas of the Straits 
 
Enhanced navigational safety and 
improved marine pollution prevention and 
response 
Technical assessment reports on the 
establishment of the MEH system 
\03
Technical Committee and Working Group 
meetings 
 
Annual PSC meeting 
 
Quarterly and annual reports 
 
All the littoral States must be level 
players to benefit from the establishment 
of the MEH system 
 
Operation of the navigational aids and 
shore-based maritime safety facilities will 
remain with the designated authorities of 
the littoral States but information MUST 
be shared for the MEH system 
 
Output from each 
Component: 
Output Indicators: 
Project reports: 
(from Outputs to Objective) 
1. Establish the Marine Electronic 
Highway
One DGPS Broadcast Station 
established and operational 
Upgraded tide stations with telemetric 
capability 
2
AIS base stations established and 
opera-tional 
1
offshore station for oceanographic data 
collection established and operational 
Survey data and ENCs produced 
DTM of submarine geomorphology of 
selected areas of Straits 
Guidelines and protocols prepared 
Seminars organized 
New potential technologies evaluation 
and integrated into the MEH system 
ƒ\03
PSC through the Technical 
Committees (TC) and Working Group 
(WG) to review the activities, monitor 
and evaluate the implementation  
Progress reports 
Milestone reports 
Technical reports on the results of 
activity implementation. 
Factory testing, delivery installation, 
commissioning and acceptance trials 
monitor and evaluate by Project 
Management Team (PMT). 
Technical reviews updates and includes 
emerging technology in the technical 
specifications and action plans.  
Relevant stakeholders share the required 
data that are critical to the design of the 
MEH system 
 
Timely delivery of commitments by the 
participating States and other 
stakeholders. 
 
Keeping track of emerging technology 
development maintains up to date mode 
of overall MEH Project. 
 
Fast development in ICT requires flexible 
and timely interventions. 
2. Facilitate integration of marine 
environment systems and data flow and 
information exchange through the MEH 
system
Guidelines and protocols prepared 
Seminars organized 
Validated sand-waves model for a 
specific area of the Straits 
3
MDCs established and operational 
Chemical and oil pollution models field 
tested and effectively used 
Measurable indicators and assessment 
criteria for environmental management  
Technical reviews and evaluation 
reports. 
 
Progress and milestones reports. 
 
Technical Committee and Working 
Group meetings 
 
Systematic integration of environmental 
information on ENC requires industry 
support. 
 
Telemetry communications requires 
support from telecommunications 
network in the region.  Ship shore 
communication via satellite is well-
established world wide. 
Page  16
3.  Development of Operational and 
Administrative Mechanisms
3
MDCs established and operational 
Intergovernmental and project meetings 
Blueprint of the managing tool developed 
Technical Committees and Working 
Groups established 
Annual PSC meeting  
Technical reviews and milestone reports. 
Cooperative agreements 
Quarterly and annual reports 
Organization mechanism under the PDF 
is sustained. 
 
Sensitivity to local cultures and 
background aids negotiation and 
decision process leading to smooth 
consensus. 
 
Recognition of shared responsibility for 
transboundary marine pollution problems 
in the Straits will serve as impetus for 
closer co-operation and mutual sharing 
of information and resources. 
4. Evaluation of financial, social and 
economic benefits and legal issues
Potential MEH users identified 
Criteria and measurable indicators for 
financial and socioeconomic assessment 
for the MEH system and its impacts 
developed 
Valuation of MTN and extra-MTN 
products and services 
Pilot charging mechanism established 
MEH Fund blueprint developed 
PPP Programme developed 
Investment projects for PPP developed 
Benefits of the MEH system quantified 
Revenue from the pilot MEH generated 
Expanded client base and partners 
Funding for the MEH Full-scale 
Development Project established 
Workshop reports, technical reviews and 
recommendations. 
Assessment reports (socioeconomic, 
financial and market). 
Workshops and consultative meetings 
MOUs and, or agreements  
Quarterly and annual reviews 
Annual PSC meeting 
Technical Committee and Working 
Groups meeting 
Policy and other legal barriers are 
addressed such on sharing of information 
and resources, copyright and limitations 
imposed by international and national 
regulations that could undermine 
effective and efficiency flow and 
exchange of information and resources 
for the MEH system 
 
The products and services of the MEH 
system must be functionally attractive, 
efficient and effective to ensure wide 
client base and partners (private sector 
and user States). 
 
Quantifying the cost/benefit  of the MEH 
system products and services is crucial 
in the development of the MEH Fund  
5
Promote awareness and participation 
relevant stakeholders
3
national and 2 regional workshops 
organized and held 
2
users feedback meetings held  
Directory of users and client base 
Publication of technical promotional 
materials on the MEH system 
Newsletters, brochures, audiovisual 
materials (digital) 
Annual PSC meeting 
Workshops and seminars 
Internet dissemination of project 
information 
Compliance to standards and quality 
control must be met at all times as 
clientele expands 
6.  Capacity building, evaluation and 
project management
1
regional training organized 
3
short term training organized 
Training materials prepared and used 
Trained national staff assigned to the 
MDCs and Hos 
Training course assessment 
Progress and annual reports 
Annual PSC meeting 
National staff trained should be assigned 
to the work that they are trained for and 
not transferred to other posts to ensure 
effective and efficient operation of the 
MEH system. 
7.  Implement transitional activities and 
assess feasibility of second phase
Database on impacts of MEH system 
established  
Project document for MEH Full-scale 
Development approved for implementation
Feasibility study for second phase initiated
International forum on second phase 
organized and held 
Preliminary assessment of MEH Impacts 
on shipping and environmental sector 
carried out 
Technical reports, annual and quarterly 
progress reports 
Project Document on the MEH Full-scale 
Development 
Annual PSC meeting 
International forum on second phase 
All the components are interlinked and 
outputs of some activities are inputs to 
other components so that proper 
implementation of activities must be 
ensured. 
 
Page  17
Annex C: Response to External Reviews 
(a) 
Response to the GEF Secretariat’s concept review at the time of Pipeline Entry
Substantial co-financing is expected from the participating countries and the private 
sector. 
The participating countries will contribute at least $1.9 million in co-financing for  on 
and off-shore physical investments and national expertise.  INTERTANKO members 
have agreed that at least 60 of their ships which regularly pass through Straits will be 
equipped with the hardware and software required to fully utilize the MEH 
Demonstration System. This investment represents at least $5.6 million in private sector 
co-financing.  Representatives of the container shipping industry have also committed 
informally to support the project and to request their members to equip a number of 
container ships to test the system. This additional private sector investment is not 
reflected in the provisional financing plan at this time, but will be included by CEO 
endorsement. 
The incremental reasoning will be fully developed. 
The Baseline and GEF Alternative Scenarios are outlined in the Incremental Cost 
Analysis. The GEF Alternative project will demonstrate an innovative, fully-integrated 
marine navigation and environmental management system that represents a major 
advance over existing and planned navigation and environment management facilities 
and capacities in the Straits. Consequently, the Baseline investments that will contribute 
to the GEF Alternative scenario are minimal and the GEF Alternative is therefore almost 
100% incremental. 
A
feasibility study of a “sustainable environmental fund” should be conducted during the 
project. 
The role of and rationale for this fund are discussed in paragraphs 17 and 18 of the 
Project Brief and the feasibility analysis of it is a sub-activity of Component 4: 
Evaluation of the financial, social and economic feasibility and legal aspects of the MEH 
system. 
The full project will indicate the mechanisms through which the MEH will be made self-
sustainable. 
Component 4 includes both analysis o
f
the MEH’s potential sustainability and design a 
financial mechanism to achieve it.
 
Specific activities to promote expansion and replication of the MEH system should be 
included in the design. 
The project will evaluate the feasibility of expanding the MEH system to the entire Straits 
of Malacca and Singapore. If this is economically justified, financially feasible and 
supported by the littoral states, it will design a second-phase project to do that.  The 
project also includes a MEH awareness and replication promotion program. 
 
Page  18
Private sector participation is essential for the success of the project. 
This is fully accepted and is reflected in both the substantial involvement of private sector 
shipping representatives in the project preparation process (INTERTANKO, the 
International Chamber of Shipping, the Oil Companies International Marine Forum), in 
the involvement of several technology providers, and in the substantial and growing 
private sector commitment to supporting and co-financing the project. 
The project cost should be accurately estimated and the financing plan specified. 
The project cost and financing plan are detailed in the Project Brief and summarized in 
the Executive Summary. 
(b) Response to the GEF Secretariat’s review at the time of initial Work Program 
submission.
Emphasis will be placed on the identification and mapping of environmentally sensitive 
areas. 
This activity has been more clearly identified in the detailed project description 
(Component 2). 
Involvement of the environment sector in the countries in the use of the MEH will be 
strengthened. 
Component 2 of the detailed project description now includes a new activity – joint 
marine and environment agency demonstrations of the use of MEH information for 
coastal zone and/or marine environment management – in each of the littoral states.  This 
new activity has also been added to the GEF Alternative section of the Incremental Cost 
Analysis (paragraph 12, point d). 
Firm commitment of the co-financing must be provided at CEO endorsement. 
It will be. 
(b) Response to the Scientific and Technical Review
The very constructive comments of the Reviewer have proved helpful in considering how 
the project design and implementation can be adapted to increase the probability of 
success. The project team looks forward to a continued active involvement of the 
Reviewer in assessing progress and modifying the demonstration project as necessary 
during its implementation. 
 
Technical Soundness 
 
a. 
ECDIS and other ship-borne equipment
The recommendation of the Reviewer is accepted and his sources will be contacted for a 
maritime advisor. To date, the extensive stakeholder consultations with representatives of 
Page  19
shipping lines using the Straits have provided an indirect perspective of ship Captains, 
but a more direct advisory role will be incorporated into the demonstration project. 
 
b. 
How to deal with small ships
Small ship operators will not be able to afford the ECDIS equipment proposed for the 
project. Design of the ECDIS systems and their incorporation with standard navigation 
systems will be deigned to maximize the possibility of detecting small ships. 
 
c.
 
Under-keel clearances
Minimizing under keel clearances is one of the benefits that would make the full-scale 
MEH attractive to ship operators. The IHO is an active participant in the project 
management (a letter of commitment has been received from them). However, we accept 
the reviewers’ comment on the need to pay particular attention to the legal repercussions 
of providing more detailed information of changes in channel depths than is usually 
available. 
d.
 
Ship operations
The advice on “not credible” ship operations is noted and methods of dealing with issue 
will be sought from the ship operating advisors chosen under (a) above. 
 
Innovativeness 
 
a. Charging 
system
The details of the charging system will determine the acceptability of the full-scale 
scheme to the ship operators and be designed to provide adequate revenue to the operator 
of the MEH to cover investment, system and data maintenance and operating costs. At 
the same time since the MEH will operate in international waters if will of necessity be 
voluntary. The charges should be set so that sufficient ship operators see a financial 
benefit to participating in the scheme. The Reviewers observation that satisfying these 
needs will be difficult is recognized and much of the technical effort in the last two years 
of the demonstration project will be devoted to devising a sustainable financing system.  
 
Benefits 
 
Method of evaluation
It is recognized that little progress has been made to date on establishing the methodology 
of the evaluation of the demonstration project. The recommendations of the Reviewer are 
Page  20
accepted and welcomed and will be acted on in the design of the evaluation method. The 
Reviewers advice will be sought on suitable advisors to the Project Team on how the 
evaluation should be done, and particular on the data that will need to be collected early 
in the demonstration phase to provide the “base case” for comparison with that after 
implementation. 
 
Institutional Structure 
 
Most, if not all, the participants in the various levels of administration of the 
demonstration project are experienced in management of projects involving shipping in 
international waters. They are aware of the need for a high level of coordination and 
collaboration. In selecting the members of the PMO, the IMO and GEF Task Manager 
will take full account of the advice of the Reviewer in this respect. 
 
Stakeholder Involvement and sustainability 
 
The IMO and Project team have been cognizant of the need for an exceptionally high 
level of stakeholder involvement. Frequent coordination meetings have been held in the 
participating countries at which all major stakeholder interests, including shipping 
operators and potential providers of services and equipment to the demonstration project 
have participated. An indication of the success of this coordination and the strength of 
ship-owner participation is their commitment to equip sufficient ships ( a minimum of 
60) with the equipment necessary for the demonstration project to function. It is expected 
that the interest of other ship-owners shown so far will result in their also equipping some 
of their ships to take part in the demonstration project. 
 
Replication Potential 
 
The IMO is participating in other projects that are intended to replicate at least in part 
some of the components of the demonstration project. The EU and maritime agencies of 
several European governments and of Japan have expressed an interest in being kept 
informed of progress on implementation of the demonstration project. The project work 
plan envisages a lengthy process of discussion with these and other maritime agencies 
(including those of the US and Canada) to ensure that lessons of previous attempts at 
establishing MEH-type systems are fully taken into account in the design of the full-
system and to ensure so far as is possible that it will be compatible with other systems 
being considered.
 
