                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 27518-AFR

                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                               PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT

           IhTHEAMOUNTOFSDR67MILLION(US$96.39MILLIONEQUIVALENT
                 TO BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DEDEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)

                             AND A PROPOSEDGUARANTEE FACILITY
                          CONSISTING OF PARTIAL RISK GUARANTEES

                       BY INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     UP TO SDR 48.7 MILLION(US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              AND OF CONTRACTS OF GUARANTEES

                    BY MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEEAGENCY
                                        UP TO US$70MILLION

TO THE BENEFIT OF REPUBLIC OF BENIN,BURKINAFASO, REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE,
 REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU, REPUBLIC OF MALI, REPUBLIC OF NIGER, REPUBLIC OF
                               SENEGAL AND TOGOLESE REPUBLIC



                                                FORA

                      WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                           January 28,2004




FinancialSector Unit
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 2004)

                           CurrencyUnit = FCFA
                                  CFAF 1 = US$O.O019375
                                    US$1 = 516.1FCFA

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1  -- December 3 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     African DevelopmentBank
AFD     Agence Franqaise de De'veloppement (French Agency for Development)
BCEAO   Banque Centraledes Etats de 1Yfiique de I'Ouest
BOAD    Banque Ouest-Afiicaine de De'veloppement
BRVM    BourseRkgionale des ValeursMobiliBres (Regional Stock Exchange)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFA     Communaute'FinanciBreAfiicaine
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CMU     Country Management Unit
COFED   Centrede Formation et d'EtudesBancaires
CR      ConseilRe'gional(capital market regulator)
DC/BR   De'positaire Central/Banquede RBglement (Central Depository/SettlementBank)
DDRI    Division of Rural Development and Infrastructure
EIB     European InvestmentBank
FAIR    Fonds d 'Aideh 1'inte'grationRe'gionale
FDI     ForeignDirect Investment
FMR     Financial MonitoringReport
GARI    Fond de Garantie des Investissements
GPN     General Procurement Notice
GRC     Guarantee ReviewCommittee
HIPC    HeavilyIndebtedPoor Countries Initiatives
IAPSO   Inter-AgencyProcurement Services Office ofthe UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
I C     Individual Consultant
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
LCS     Least Cost Selection
MIGA    Multilateral InvestmentGuarantee Agency
MIGGU   MIGA Guarantees
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NEPAD   New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO     Non-Governmental Organizations
OHADA   Organisationpour 1'harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afiique (Organization
        for the Harmonizationo f Business Law inAfrica)
OTC     Over the Counter
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PFG     Project Finance Guarantee

                                                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


    PGES       Plan de GestionEnvironnementaleet Sociale (Environmental and Social
                Management Plan)
    PIP         Project Implementation Plan
    PRG        Partial Risk Guarantee
    PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    PSC        Project Steering Committee
    QCBS       Quality & Cost-based Selection
    QER         Quality Enhancement Review
    RCB        Regional Competitive Bidding
    RIAS       Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
     SGI        Societe de Gestion et d'Intermediation
    SPN        Specific Procurement Notice
    SYSCOA     SystBmeComptableAJiicain
    TOR        Terms of Reference
    UEMOA       Union Economiqueet Mone`tairedes Etats de 1'Afiique de I'Ouest
    UGR        Unitede Gestiondes Risques
    UNDB       UnitedNations DevelopmentBusiness
    WAEMU      West Africa Economic and Monetary Union




                                  Vice President:     Callisto E.Madavo
                           Vice President MIGA:       Roger Pruneau
               Director, Strategy and Operations:     N i l s 0.Tcheyan
                                 Sector Manager:      Gerard A. Byam
                              Task Team Leader:       Noel K.Tshiani



1IThisperformance
       document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
 the             of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed11
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                                2


                                                AFRICA
                    WAEMU CAPITAL MARKETDEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  10
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       15
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      16
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       16

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           19
   2. Major related projects financed bythe Bank and/or other development agencies        20
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  21
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    23
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         23

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            23
   2. Financial                                                                           24
   3. Technical                                                                           25
   4. Institutional                                                                       25
   5. Environmental                                                                       28
   6. Social                                                                              30
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  3 1

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     32
   2. Critical risks                                                                     32
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     33


G. Main Credit Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            33
   2. Other                                                                              34

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           34

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             35



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                           36
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     44
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           54
Annex 5:   Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning ProjectEntities,or Financial Summary    65
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    66
           (B) Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements                          72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     77
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    78
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            81
Annex 11:DetailedDescription of IDA & MIGA GuaranteeFacility                             83
Annex 12: West African DevelopmentBank (BOAD)                                            90

                                                  AFRICA
                          WAEMU CAPITALMARKETDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                    Project Appraisal Document
                                           Africa RegionalOffice
                                                  AFTFS

Date: January 28,2004                                 Team Leader: Noel K.Tshiani
Sector Managermirector: GerardA. Byam                 Sector(s): Capitalmarkets (58%), Roadsandhighways
Country Managermirector: N i l s 0.Tcheyan            (42%)
Project ID: PO74525                                   Private sector development(s)
                                                      Theme(s): Regionalintegration(P), Other financial and
Lending Instrument: FinancialIntermediaryLoan (FIL)


 [ ]Loan       [XI Credit   [ ] Grant     [XI Guarantee       [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 96.39

Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40



[DA                                                                   2.81          93.58          96.39
CANADA:CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                             0.95            1.55           2.50
4GENCY (CIDA)
FRANCE: FRENCHAGENCY FORDEVELOPMENT                                   2.28          90.97          93.25
MIGA GUARANTEE                                                        0.00          70.00           70.00
[DA GUARANTEE                                                         0.00          70.00           70.00
FRANCE:MINISTRY OF FOREIGNAFFAIRS (MOFA)                              0.91            1.49           2.40
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWINGCOUNTRY                                     7.45          12.15           19.60
Total:
Borrower: BOAD
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: BOAD
Address: B.P. 1172Lome, Togo
Contact Person: Dr.BoniYayi, President
Tel: (228) 2 221 59 06            Fax: (228)2 221 52 67/21 79 69             Email: boadsiege@boad.org

                                                              2



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):




For Guarantees:          -
                         -PartialCredit       Partial Risk
Proposed coverage:       Risk Coverage under individual guarantees would be decided on a case by case basis. These may
include host Government obligations, including payment obligations, foreign exchange convertibility, availability and
transferability risks, changes in law, breach o f contract, expropriation, political force majeure risks, etc. Inaddition to
the IDA guarantee, MIGA and AFD will provide complementary products which will include political risks coverage fo
debt and equity investments (MIGA) and political and commercial riskscoverage (AFD).
Project sponsor: Private companies with adequate experience and expertise in undertaking private infrastructure
projects.
Nature of underlying financing: Medium or long-term commercial financing.
Terms of financing:
                        Principal amount (US$m): 227.30
                                   Final maturity: > 7 years
                            Amortization profile: As requiredto meet the needs o fthe private project.
Financing available without guarantee:      __
                                            1-  Yes 3 N o
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: NIA
Estimated financing cost or maturitywith guarantee: To be determined.
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2004 Expectedclosing date: 09/30/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The principal objective o f the proposed project i s to develop the capital markets in the West
Africa Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) region, and mobilize public and private
financing for the region's infrastructure development. The project i s expected to contribute to the
West Africa Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) countries' efforts to achieve sustainable
regional economic growth through the provision o f efficient, region-wide infrastructure services
and greater financial market integration.

Specifically, the project will assist in: (a) strengthening the regulatory framework for capital
market operations and buildingthe capacity o f regional institutions involved inthe capital markets
including BOAD, Conseil Rigional (CR), the stock exchange (Bourse Rigionale des Valeurs
MobiliBres, BRVM), and the WAEMU Commission; (b) providing mediumand long-term finance
for a broad spectrum o f public infrastructure projects, which will contribute to the physical
integration among the WAEMU countries; and (c) providing political and commercial risk
mitigation instruments to catalyze longer-term commercial financing in support o f small and
medium-sized infrastructure projects inWAEMUcountries.

WAEMU is one o f the building blocks o f the New Partnership for Africa's Development
(NEPAD) inWest Africa, and BOAD as the regional development bank, is expected to play a key
role in mobilizing financing for investment, and to support deepening o f financial markets. The
eight WAEMU countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, CBte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo) share the same currency (the CFA franc), the same central bank (Banque
Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest      - BCEAO),    the same development bank (Banque
Ouest-Africaine de Diveloppement         - BOAD), and implement coordinated economic and
monetary policies.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
    Technicalassistance and InstitutionalSupport Component

       0   BOAD to issue at least CFAF 10 billion o f bonds annually in the regional capital
           markets, starting in2004.
       0   Inconsultation with ratings advisor, BOADto define operating and financial ratios as
           well as loans classification and provisioning requirements in line with internationally
           accepted best practices and to be in compliance with these norms by mid2005.
       0   By the mid-termreview, CREPMF shall have reviewed, revised and compiled capital market
           rules (equity and bond market), and submitted them to the appropriate authorities for approval
           and publication.
       0   Conseil Rigional (CR) to inspect at least once a year from mid-term review and
           thereafter all commercial intermediaries (Sociitis de Gestion et d'Intermidiation, the
           Stock Exchange (BRVM), Sociitis de Gestions dyctifs, etc.), and the Central
           Depository and the Settlement Bank [Dipositaire Central (DC], Banque de
           Riglement (BR)I
       0   By the midterm review, the UEMOA Commission shall have submitted to the appropriate


                                                 - 3 -

            authorities for their approval, draft texts to harmonize the tax regimes across the UEMOA
            memberstatesfor financial operations,products and instruments.

    Lineof Credit

        0   All sub-projects submitted for financing under the line o f credit meet established
            criteria which would include contributing to regional integration objectives, minimum
            ex-ante rates o f return, meeting Bank environmental and social safeguards.
        0   Roads projects meet their objective to expanarehabilitate cross country network by
            650 km at midterm review and 1300 Kmat project end.

    Guarantee Facility

        0   At least 30 percent o f IDA/MIGA/AFD guarantees issuedby mid-term review.
        0   Improved performance o f BOAD staff assigned to the guarantee facility inidentifying,
            marketing, screening sub-projects and assisting in preliminary processing o f private
            projects by mid-term review.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22520-AFR July 11,2001           Date of latest CAS discussion: August 2, 2001
The three main objectives o f the Bank's Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) are: (i)
development o f an unified financial market which will contribute to regional integration, (ii)
promotion o f efficient, region-wide infrastructure services, and (iii)   creation o f a more stable and
attractive economic environment for all investors, centered especially on greater financial market
integration including unfettered capital movements and a harmonized tax policies applicable to
financial instruments to promote private investments. The proposed project would support the
achievement o f these objectives. At the borrower's request and based on the findings o f the
appraisal mission, the proposed credit amount i s slightly higher than initially envisaged in the
RIAS  .

To support the development o f a unified financial market, the project will provide technical
assistance to improve the regulatory framework and strengthen key financial institutions in the
regional markets. To assist inthe improvement o f region-wide infrastructure services, the project
will provide a line o f credit andajoint IDNMIGNAFDguarantee facility, expanding the range o f
financial products to finance public and private infrastructure investments inWAEMU countries.




                                                   - 4 -

     Countw
      -..~~~~~                Last CAS Document                             PRSPDocument
  Benin            ReportNo. 26054-BEN-datedJuly 2003      ReportNo. 25475-BEN, datedMarch 2003
  Burkina          ReportNo. 25458-BUR-datedMarch 2003     Report No. 21027-BUR, datedMay 2000
  CBte d'Ivoire    ReportNo. 24168-IVC-datedMarch2002      ReportNo. 23835-IVC, datedJanuary
                                                           2002
  Guinea Bissau   ReportNo. 16568-GUB-datedMay 1997        ReportNo. 21407-GUB, dated
                                                           September 2000
  Mali            ReportNo. 25663-MLI datedJuly 2003       ReportNo-.20802-datedJuly
                                                           2000
  Niger           ReportNo. 23483-NIR-datedJanuary 2002    ReportNo. 23483-NIR-datedJanuary
                                                           2002
  Senegal         ReportNo. 25498-SE-datedMarch 2003       ReportNo. 21182-SE-dated
                                                           May 2000
  Togo             ReportNo. 20433-TO datedJune 2000       NIA



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
MainIssues

Over the last decade, WAEMU governments have intensified their efforts to integrate economic
and financial activities in order to compete inthe global markets. Inthis context, the governments
have envisaged the creation o f a common market, based on the free circulation o f people, goods,
services, and capital with a common external tariff and commercial policies. A number o f issues
have been identified that need to be addressed by regional financial institutions before such a
common market can be fully achieved. These include:

(i)       Weak Capacity of Key Regional Institutions dealing with CapitalMarket Development

BOAD is a sound institution which has received financing from a number o f donors, including
three IDA credits, and successfully implemented and honored all commitments with them.
Although BOADhas developed a good knowledge o f regional markets, economic conditions, and
its clients, it lacks sufficient technical skills in the area o f resource mobilization, an efficient
information and analytical accounting systems, internal controls and performance based personnel
management system. BOAD will also need to update its environmental and social safeguard
policies and guidelines. BOAD's performance has been hampered by a lack o f appropriate
financing    to grow its public sector portfolio. Other regional institutions such as the Conseil
Regional, which i s charged with regulation and enforcement o f capital market rules, and the
WAEMU Commission, chargedwith common economic policy do not have sufficient capacity to
fulfill their mandate.

(ii)     Lack of reference rates
One of the issues faced by private-sector firms that wish to raise medium- to long-term capital in
the regional capital markets is the absence o f a reliable benchmark yield against which debt



                                                 - 5 -

instruments and other long-term assets can be priced. Interviews with both investors and issuers
confirm that the lack o f reliable long-term reference rates i s a key problem in developing a
corporate bond market in the region. At present, because o f the lack o f such benchmarks, debt
instruments are priced using related indicators, such as the Central Bank's discount rate, the
commercial banks' prime lending rates, the market's liquidity position, coupon rate o f the most
recent bond issue, sizes and names o f future issues, prices o f seasoned bonds in the secondary
market, and the quality o f the guarantor o f the issue. Further, none o f the member governments
has at present a financial condition sound enough to act as a benchmark issuer and i s thus not
able to provide the market with a regular supply o f bonds o f high quality and uniform
characteristics to be used as benchmarks. As a result, BOAD bonds are most frequently those
referred to inthe WAEMU market and may therefore be consideredto be de facto benchmarks.

(iii)   Lack of long-term capitalfor investmentprojects

Access to long-term capital in the region is hindered by limited capacity and inadequate
knowledge o f capital marketdprivate investment activities among financial institutions. As o f
December 2000, bank credit stood at CFAF 3,033 billion o f which 4 percent (CFAF 129 billion)
was long-term (10 years or more). There are no other sources of long-term finances.

The average financial depth (M2/GDP) in the region is below 25 percent, as compared to 55
percent in South Africa; investors and consumers are dependent on the local commercial banks to
save or invest their financial assets. Since most deposits are sight or short-term deposits below six
months, there is an acute shortage o f long-term resources. Commercial banks provide mostly
traditional trade finance, and have not been able to introduce financial products and services such
as structured finance and syndicated loans. Local commercial institutions have limited options to
h d investments since there are few financial instruments to mobilize long-term resources. Both
investors and institutions plan for short-term goals and refrain from venturing into capital markets
to raise long-term capital for investment.

The microfinance sector is characterized by a growing number o f institutions but falls short in
regulatory discipline due, among other things, to a lack of adequate supervision by the Ministries
o f Economy and Finance, which have the supervisory responsibility. Savings banks and postal
systems are weak and lack technical expertise. Insurance companies and social security schemes
lack capital markets investment know-how to understand the risk-return relationships. At the
sub-regional level, BOAD i s the largest provider o f medium- and long-term financing. It i s the
primary non-sovereign debt issuing institution, and the de facto reference issuer in the regional
financial market.

The absence o f an efficient mechanism for mobilizing medium- and long-term resources affects
the development o f the private sector. Foreign institutions are looking for local partners with
some expertise inprivate investmentand capital markets to develop their capital market activities
inthe region. BOADhas traditionally focused its financing on the public sector. Untilrecently, its
procedures, organization, and in particular, its staff were more suited for public sector activities.
However, since the early nineties with the CFAF devaluation in 1994, BOAD has been devoting
more and more o f its operations to the private sector, to keep up with the changing economic



                                                - 6 -

environment o f its members and clients and due to lack o f concessional resources.

(iv)    Lack of financingfor private infrastructure projects
Investment needs in basic infrastructure over the next five years in WAEMU countries are
conservatively estimated in the order o f US$2 billion. Over the last decade, in an effort to set the
stage for an increased level o f private investments, most WAEMU countries embarked on
far-reaching reforms, such as liberalization o f infrastructure sectors, privatization o f public
enterprises and development o f cross-border initiatives in transport, energy, telecommunications
and water sectors. Despite some progress inkey policy areas, the WAEMU region still perceived
as "high risk-high transactions cost" by the private sector.

This negative perception has emerged from political instability in some countries and from the
region's history o f mixed policy performance that has been subject to setbacks or delayed
implementation. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inWAEMU countries did increase six-fold over
the past decade because o f the privatization programs in CBte d'Ivoire and Senegal. However,
this trend was short-lived, and since the political crisis inCBte d'Ivoire in 1999, FDIhas dropped
by more than 40 percent in West Africa and has remained depressed. Despite the setbacks,
WAEMU countries continue to implement reforms aimed at increasing private investment to
improve and expand access and quality o f infrastructure services. However, fragile political
conditions, especially in CBte d'Ivoire, and fear o f political reversal have made it much harder to
attract technically sound and experienced investors inthe region.

Global events, such as the impact o f the Argentina financial crisis, have further increased risk
aversion o f the private sector towards emerging markets. Such events have translated into a
substantial reduction inprivate capital available from sponsors and commercial lenders to support
infrastructure projects infrontier markets. A number o f strategic investors have reconsidered their
project portfolio with a view to reducing emerging market exposure to dispel investors' fears.
This has resulted in a further decrease in private capital especially in low-income and reforming
economies.

(v)      Inadequate enforcement of legal and regulatoryframework
WAEMU countries have made substantial progress in adopting appropriate legal and regulatory
frameworks to improve the business climate for foreign investors, but progress on implementing
the adopted laws and regulations has been slow. All WAEMU countries have adopted the
Organisation pour 1'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique (OHADA) which was set
up by a treaty signed inOctober 1993 with the aim to promote regional integration and economic
growth through harmonization o f business laws. While OHADA provides an adequate legal
framework for investors in the region, many aspects o f the legislation remain unknown to
investors and the legal community. The laws on corporate bankruptcy and collateral are a
particularly important step forward, but the lack o f sufficient qualified legal professionals and
weaknesses o f the judicial system constitute a challenge which will have to be overcome.

Financial sector regulations in the zone are generally adequate, although some are not
systematically enforced. The maturity transformation ratio allowed for commercial banks, set at
25 percent, i s believed to be a serious constraint for commercial banks to invest in long term


                                                 - 7 -

 assets. The Conseil Rigional is the sole regulator o f the capital market and has adequate authority
 to supervise the market, but lacks sufficient resources as well as capacities to carry out its
 functions effectively. The Conseil lacks financial independence and is mainly funded by member
 countries through BCEAO. However, the principal problems due to the lack o f experience and
 sufficient training o f the Conseil Rigional and its staff, and the structure o f the Conseil itself. For
 instance, the Conseil does not have a full-time executive with decision-making power, and
 decisions take longer than necessary. The regional stock exchange, BRVM, is not a self
regulatory organization and plays no oversight role. Both issuers and investors are currently
burdened with time-consuming procedures, high cost o f bond issuance and trading systems, and
mandatory guarantee requirements on bonds.

 (vi)    Inadequate harmonization of taxpolicies
Taxation o f income earned from investments in the region currently differs from one country to
another. This encompasses taxes on dividendsand bond interest provisions for the deductibility o f
inter-company dividend. The variety o f rates on capital markets indifferent countries impedes the
development o f an integrated capital market in the zone. While the WAEMU authorities are
aware o f the desirability o f tax harmonization across the region, a common understanding o f
capital market activities remains to be developed among the key players.

Governments' Strategy

The WAEMU countries have implemented important financial sector reforms over the past 15
years. A new regional banking law was adopted in 1989, a regional Banking Commission was
established in 1990, and a new regional insurance code was introduced. Commercial banks were
restructured in most o f the countries. The insurance sector was also restructured, with the
privatization o f the major companies. A new regional stock market was established with the
creation o f the BRVM in Abidjan, with a branch in each o f the member countries. With these
basic reforms in place, the Authorities are now focusing on deepening the financial sector by
improving capital market activities. In this context, the Council o f Ministers o f WAEMU
established a Steering Committee for Capital Market activities which drafted an action plan to
jump-start the stock and bond markets in the zone. The action plan calls for, among other things,
further strengtheningofkey institutions that interact inthe capital market such as BOAD, Conseil
Rigional, BCEAO, BRVM, the WAEMU Commission and brokerage firms, and further
improving the legal and regulatory environment. In addition, attention i s also directed toward the
establishment o f a fast, reliable payment system, which i s supported by an ongoing IDA Regional
Payment System Project (Credit No 3424 WAFC).

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposedproject will address three major sector-related issues:

(a) Weak institutional capacity of key institutions. The project will provide technical
assistance principally to Conseil Rigional, BOAD, BCEAO, the WAEMU Commission, SGI's
and BRVM to address the following issues : (i)low activity level o f the regional capital market;
(ii)lackofinstitutionalcapacity toregulate, supervise andpromotecapitalmarketactivity; (iii)



                                                 - 8 -

absence o f regular supply o f high-quality tradable securities; (iv) concentration o f investment
opportunities for institutional investors on bank deposits; (v) insufficient mobilization o f local
savings; and (vi) inconsistent andor unfriendly taxation. The institutional and regulatory
reinforcement will help to reduce the shortage o f long term capital in the region. Those activities
are part o f an action plan to enhance capital market activities inthe regionprepared by a Steering
Committee consisting o f Conseil Rigional, BCEAO, BOAD, SGIs, BRVM and adopted by the
WAEMUcouncil o fMinisters inDecember 2002.

(b) Lack of long-term capital for capital intensive projects. The road infrastructures in the
zone are o f poor quality to ensure a free movement o f people and goods. This is a serious
impedimentto the regional integrationeffort as it results inhigher transaction costs andnegatively
impacts inter-country trade. The line o f credit envisaged under the project will provide
concessional long term resources to finance needed regional infrastructures to strengthen the
regional road network.

(c) Lack of financing for private infrastructure.             Through the joint IDNMIGNAFD
Guarantee Facility, the project will make available risk mitigation instruments that will cover
private capital against political and certain commercial risks, which have been identified as
constraints to infrastructure investmentfinancing in West Africa. Guarantee instruments, such as
the IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG), MIGA's political risk guarantee and AFD's partial risk
and comprehensive risk guarantees, can prove critical in enhancing the attractiveness o f key
investments that have not materialized because o f unmitigated political and commercial risks. It
has been agreed that under the proposed Guarantee Facility, IDA Guarantees will cover private
financing against sovereign default on specific obligations and can thus be instrumental in sectors
that are in early stages o f reforms or are implementing politically sensitive reforms such as
privatization. MIGA will provide investment guarantees against certain non-commercial risks (i.e.
political risk insurance) to eligible foreign investors for qualified investments. Along with its
partial risk guarantee, which will be used in conjunction with the IDA PRG, AFD i s also making
available a comprehensive guarantee that would cover certain commercial risks. Specifically, the
following risks could be mitigated through the use of guarantee instruments: (i) o f contract
                                                                                  breach
risk; (ii)regulatory risks, including changes in law; (iii)
                                                         currency transfer and inconvertibility risks;
(iv) expropriation and creeping expropriation; (v) political force majeure, war and civil
disturbance; (vi) interference in arbitration process; and (vii) commercial risks that the private
sector i s unwilling to accept. The availability of these risk mitigation instruments is expected to
mitigate a variety o f political and commercial risks associated with private projects and provide
comfort to the private sector, thereby facilitating private investments. In privatization, for
example, the indication o f the availability o f guarantees at the time o f bidding can increase the
number of qualified investors. For greenfield investments, appropriate use of political risk
mitigation instruments can help mobilize commercial finance, and improve the terms o f the
financing to make the projects sustainable and allow for lower costs to consumers.

The WAEMU Council o f Ministers has developed (and adopted, in December 2002) an action
plan aiming at enhancing the regional capital markets. This action plan has been designed to
develop both the bond and equity markets. Two options were considered for financing under this
project: (i)to concentrate technical assistance exclusively on the bond market in the first five



                                                  - 9 -

years, and (ii) spread the available resources and technical assistance on both the equity and
                to
bonds markets. A strategic choice was made to support the development o f both equity and bonds
markets, both o f which do exist but are in very early stages o f development and face similar
problems. This choice i s consistent with governments' strategies developed by the steering
committee on the capital market development approved by the Council o f Ministers, which calls
for strengtheningthe existing infrastructure o f bonds and equity market. These strategic choices
were discussed with and agreed on by key stakeholders -BCEAO, BOAD, Conseil Rigional
and BRVM.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (seeAnnex 2 for a detaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):
The project aims to support the development o f the capital markets inthe region and to mobilize
public and private financing for the region's infrastructure development. The project consists o f
three major components: (i)a technical assistance and institutional support component to key
institutions in the regional capital market; (ii) line o f credit to be on-lent to governments to
                                                  a
finance infrastructure projects that contribute to regional integration; and (iii)
                                                                                 a guarantee facility
supported by IDA, MIGA and AFD to support infrastructure investments by mitigating political
and commercial risks. The project will also support project management activities, including
information and dissemination campaigns and project monitoring. The main features of each
component are summarized inthe paragraphs that follow.

Component 1.TechnicalAssistance and InstitutionalSupport

This component includes technical assistance to (i)BOAD, (ii)to Conseil Rigional, and (iii)
other key market institutions such as WAEMU Commission, BCEAO, BRVM and market
intermediaries (SGIs). The technical assistance to BOAD i s                  subdivided into three
sub-components: (a) Strengthening o f the institutional and technical capacities o f BOAD to
improve its productivity; (b) strengthening o f the institutional and technical capacities o f BOAD
to become a reference rate bond issue inthe West Africa capital market; and (c) strengtheningo f
the technical capacities of BOAD to prepare the sub-projects to be covered under the Guarantee
Facility.

This component will provide technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework for
capital market operations, and technical assistance and training to help strengthenthe institutional
capacity of key institutions involved inthe regional capital market, principally to BOAD, Conseil
Rigional, BRVM and commercial intermediaries (SGIs), but also to BCEAO, WAEMU
Commission. Technical assistance and training will be provided to BOAD to help expand and
diversify its activities, to review and revamp its organizational chart, to improve its management
and business process, particularly in the areas of asset'liability management, project evaluation,
and human resource management (including the development o f a career development plan).
Technical assistance will also be provided to implement the recommendations o f BOAD's
corporate strategy with the aim to spin off its investment bank activities from its overall balance
sheet, thus creating a BOAD core public sector financing fund (Fonds de Dkveloppment et de
Cohission) and an investment bank. The technical assistance to BOAD will also include a study to



                                                - 1 0 -

determine alternative options to alleviate the burden o f long term assets and foreign currency
denominated liabilities (including securitization o f some loans) on BOAD balance sheet and
implementation o f recommendations thereof. Technical assistance to the Conseil Rkgional will
focus on improvements in the regulatory framework for the equity and bond markets, including
disclosure regulations for companies, the development o f a website to publicize regulations to
promote transparency among market players, the introduction o f a credit rating system,
revamping o f the regulatory and supervisory framework for market participants, code o f conduct
for the CR and training for its staff and market participants. The project will also provide technical
assistance and training to BCEAO to carry out training seminars for market participants. CR will
also introduce accounting standards for market intermediaries. Lastly, assistance will be provided
to the WAEMU Commission to study the harmonization o f the tax regimes across the region for
medium-termbonds and other financial or capital market instruments, and to BRVMto carry out
training for its staff and market participants. The technical assistance to Conseil Rkgional, the
WAEMU Commission, Bourse Rkgionale des Valeurs MobiliBres (BRVM) market participants,
including Sociitks de Gestion et d'lntermkdiation (SGIs), will be financed with grants from
Agence Francaise de Dkveloppement (AFD), the Canadian Agency for International Development
(CIDA) and the French Ministry o f Foreign Affairs. The technical assistance to be provided to
BOADwill be financed with the proceeds ofthe IDA credit andby portiono fthe grant from AFD
for the Guarantee Component.

Component2. Line of Credit

The line o f credit will be used to promote economic integration among WAEMU countries by
providing the needed long-term resources to fund the foreign currency portion o f projects which
foster regional integration. The proposed IDA funding will be allocated to the public sector
components o f selected investment projects that will require some preferential and/or long-term
financing. BOAD will on-lend the resources for a maturity o f 25 years with a 7-year grace period
for repayment. The interest rate would be 2 percent per annum for next year and will be revisited
every year. Unlike previous lines of credit, BOAD will cover the foreign exchange risk o f the
credit by introducing an indexation clause into its loan contracts to transfer the foreign exchange
riskto its borrowers.

The line o f credit i s expected to cover approximately 62 percent o f BOAD's contribution to the
lending program for the five year period 2003-2008, which i s estimated at US$252 million.
BOAD has provided the Bank with a list o fprojects which could potentially be financed under the
line o f credit and which is based on proposals put forth by member governments. This list i s not
exhaustive and will be updated depending on national and sub-regional priorities during
implementation. The Bank has discussed these project selection criteria to ensure that BOAD and
the World Bank have the same criteria inthe choice ofhighway investmentprojects. Itwas agreed
that the projects are part o f WAEMU's national and regional development strategies and the
national programs o f priority highway investments. The sub-projects would be subject to an
economic and social evaluation to determine the project eligibility under the line o f credit.

Each sub-project will be appraised by BOAD and sent to the Bank for review prior to its final
approval. BOAD's sub-project appraisals will include the calculation o f an economic rate o f



                                                - 11 -

return, which would have to be at least 12 percent. The appraisal reports will also include an
assessment o f the environmental and social effects o f the sub-projects which will have to be inline
with the BOAD's policies. sub-projects would be implemented using World Bank procurement
procedures, while BOAD's rules are being updated in line with IDA'S as discussed below. To
ensure that the proceeds o f the line o f credit are not concentrated ina few projects, sub-loans will
have a ceiling o f USSl5 million. To be eligible, projects must contribute to the creation o f a
unified regional market. The Member States will provide at least five percent (5%) o f the
estimated costs o f a Road Project provided that their average contribution for all the Road
Projects i s at least twelve percent (12%) o f the aggregate estimated amount during the five year
period. Inaddition, a sub-loan for a road sub-project would not be authorized in a country where
IDA or IBRDhas suspended disbursement generally or that has been placed innon-accrual status
by IDA or IBRD.

Component 3. The GuaranteeFacility supported by IDA, MIGA and AFD

Supported by guarantee instrumentsprovided by IDA (the IDA Guarantee), MIGA (the MIGA
Guarantee) and AFD (the AFD Guarantee), the Guarantee Facility will target the financing gap
for private projects by catalyzing private investments in small and medium-sized infrastructure
projects, including privatizations, and by mitigating critical risks which currently constrain
investors' interest. The Guarantee Facility would also seek to facilitate access to these instruments
for relatively small projects. The use o f BOAD as a well-positioned intermediary throughout the
region would help in accelerating identification and processing o f small to medium size
infrastructure projects. The deployment o f IDA, MIGA and AFD guarantees with assistance from
BOAD will also contribute to capacity building of BOAD staff in private project financing and
risk assessment of such projects. This increase in capacity will allow BOAD to move away from
its traditional focus on financing public projects and help BOAD finance private infrastructure
projects through diverse financing options.

On a several basis, the Guarantee Facility is being set up for an aggregate amount o f about
US$227.3 million. IDA and MIGA will each commit an amount o f US$70 million equivalent and
AFD will commit an amount of Euro 70 million equivalent in support o f the Guarantee Facility.
These amounts have been reviewed during the preparation o f the project and refined during
appraisal. The availability o f the Guarantee Facility would not restrict MIGA, IDA or AFD to
support projects in WAEMU countries outside o f the Guarantee Facility proposed under this
Project. A Guarantee Facility Guidebook (the Guidebook), prepared jointly by IDA, MIGA and
AFD prescribes operating policies and proceduresfor the Guarantee Facility.

The IDA Guarantee would be considered for deployment when one or several of its features
(explicit counter-guarantee, booking on Bank's balance sheet, Bank's remedies, linkage to Bank's
sector dialogue and conditionality and the Bank credibility) are critical from a risk management
and/or market point o f view. The IDA Guarantee would generally be deployed in riskier
sectors/transactions, in early reforming sectors where the risk o f reversibility is high, or for
relatively larger transactions, where the counter-guarantee and policy dialogue o f IDA are critical
to mitigate the sovereign risks and enhance the credibility o f the undertakings o f the host
government. This deployment o f IDA Guarantees vis-a-vis MIGA i s consistent with the review o f



                                                  - 12-

the World Bank Guarantee Review carried out in December 2000 (Enhancing the Use o f World
Bank Guarantees as an Operational Tool-A           Review o f the World Bank Guarantee Program,
R2000-215, IDA/R2000-215, November 27, 2000). The AFD Partial Risk Guarantee would be
primarily deployed for the purposes o f risk sharing with IDA. The AFD comprehensive guarantee
(which also covers commercial risks in addition to political risks) would be deployed with or
without an IDA or MIGA Guarantee or with both as appropriate, but in cases where the market
requires comprehensive risk coverage in addition to political risk cover and where it i s determined
that political risk mitigation does not provided adequate risk mitigation for the private sector. In
certain projects, depending upon the investment environment in the host country, either one, two
or all o f the three institutions may support a sub-project.

The Guarantee Facility will have an initial availability period of five (5) years from the date of
effectiveness. A sub-project shall not have a total project cost (including contingencies) o f more
than US$50 million, unless the IDA, MIGA and AFD, as the case may be, otherwise agree. IDA,
MIGA and AFD Guarantees provided to private projects would be non-accelerable, i.e. with
respect to debt transactions, payments under any call on the guarantees by IDA, MIGA and AFD
would be limitedto scheduled debt service payments as they become due.

Each sub-project proposed to be covered by the Guarantee Facility would be expected to meet
the following eligibility criteria: (i) sub-project shall be inthe infrastructure sector unless agreed
                                      A
otherwise by the Guarantors; it i s expected that the sub-project would be consistent with the
host-country IDA CAS/PRSP/I-PRSP or an equivalent country strategy; (ii) sub-project shall
                                                                                  a
not have a total project cost (including contingencies) of more than US$50 million equivalent,
unless the Guarantor(s) otherwise agree; (iii) cumulative amount o f guarantees supporting any
                                                the
individual sub-project shall not exceed US$30 million equivalent. IDA's support to a particular
sub-project shall be limitedto US$15 million equivalent; MIGA's support, excluding co-insurance
with private or public insurers, to a particular sub-project shall be limited to US$15 million
equivalent; AFD's support to a particular support shall also be limited to US$15 million
equivalent; (iii) all prospective sub-projects will comply with applicable environmental guidelines
and environmental and social safeguard policies o f MIGA, as set forth inthe Guidebook.

IDA management approved an exception from the standard approach to allow IDA to apply
MIGA's environmental guidelines and environmental and social safeguard policies to its
guarantees provided under the Guarantee Facility. It was agreed that since MIGA's policies
reflect both its role as guarantor and its business relationships with private sector, applying
MIGA's environmental guidelines and environmental and social safeguard policies to the
Guarantee Facility would allow the Facility to better serve the private sector investors that the
Facility is intended to encourage. Inaddition, usinga harmonized set o f guidelines and policies in
this respect will avoid confusion that may otherwise arise for investors. However, relevant
disclosure policies o f IDA, MIGA and AFD will respectively apply for any IDA, MIGA and AFD
guarantees provided under the facility. In the event that MIGA is involved with IDA injointly
supporting an investment, MIGA will not duplicate IDA'sdisclosure process, as per MIGA's May
2002 Environmental and Social ReviewProcedures.




                                                 -13-

It is proposed that only private projects that are located in "Eligible States" would be supported
by the Guarantee Facility. For purposes of the Guarantee Facility, an Eligible State is any state
which i s a member o f the West African Economic and Monetary Union (Union Economique et
Monituire Ouest Afiicuine) and which: (a) for the purposes o f the IDA and the IDA Guarantee
Facility, (i)i s also a member in good standing o f IDA and the International Monetary Fund, and
(ii) ortheWorldBank,asthecasemaybe,hasnotsuspendeddisbursementstosuchStateor
     IDA
placed such State in non-accrual status; (b) for the purposes o f the MIGA and the MIGA
Guarantee Facility, is also a member o f MIGA; and (c) for the purposes o f AFD and the AFD
Guarantee Facility, i s not in arrears on any o f its debt service or other payment obligations to
AFD, and to which AFD has not suspended disbursements or placed in non-accrual status.
Currently, Togo is ineligible for support from IDA. Therefore, IDA staff requested from IDA
management an exception to OP/BP 13.40 (Suspension o f disbursements) and OD 13.45 (Non
accrual status and Loan loss provisioning) in the case o f Togo to allow the Government o f Togo
(GOT) to attend the negotiations o f the Project, which exception was granted. IDA management
also approved that the Project, including Togo, be presented to the IDA Board o f Executive
Directors, on the understanding that Togo will be ineligible for support from IDA for so long as it
remains in non-accrual status. If at any time during the period o f the facility, Togo becomes
current with IDA, it would be expected that Togo would become eligible for support from IDA
under the Guarantee Facility. To this extent, IDA management also approved that the GOT be
allowed to sign the Guarantee Facility Agreement.

The Guarantee Facility would be utilizedon a first-come first-served basis within the limits of, and
consistent with, the CAS envelopes.       Investment projects located on the territory o f several
eligible WAEMU member countries would also be eligible for IDA PRGs provided the host
countries agree to provide counter-guarantees to IDA for the particular sub-project.

MIGA will provide guarantees under the proposed Guarantee Facility in conformity with its
Convention, Operational Regulations, and other policies and guidelines. To facilitate prompt
approval o f certain types o f guarantees, which would include guarantees for sub-projects under
the proposed Guarantee Facility, MIGA Management has recently submitted an amendment o f
Section 3.35 o f MIGA's Operational Regulations to MIGA Board for its approval. Section 3.35
(c) o f the Regulations currently requires that a report on these prospective guarantees be
circulated to the Board prior to their approval by the President. If the proposed amendment has
been approved, the MIGA Board will be able to waive the requirement for prior circulation o f a
report concerning such guarantees, and would be informed o f the executed guarantees ex-post
through the MIGA EVP Quarterly Reports. In this regard, provided that the Board has indeed
approved the amendment, MIGA hereby requests that the Board agree to apply it in the context
o f this Guarantee Facility, and waive the requirement for circulation o f a report prior to approval.
Inthat case, the Boardwill be informed of executedguarantees for sub-projects underthe Facility
through the MIGA EVP Quarterly Reports.

Guarantees for sub-projects-would be approved by the Regional Vice President Africa (for the
purpose o f the IDA Guarantee) and by the Executive Vice President, MIGA on behalf o f the
President, as per its normal practice (for the purpose of the MIGA Guarantee). AFD guarantees
would be approved by its Board o f Directors.



                                               - 14 -

Component 4. ProjectImplementation

The project will finance a Project Coordination Unit within BOAD, the Project Components
Managers and activities o f the Steering Committee which will provide guidance on the project's
implementation. It will provide technical assistance to improve coordination and synergy between
key institutions in the regional financial market in WAEMU and inthe Franc Zone (CRYBanking
Commission, WAEMU Commission, BRVM, Insurance supervisory body and Pension system
supervisory committee, etc.).

The indicative costs by component are summarized inthe table below.

                                                                   Indicative                    Bank-      % of
                           Component                                 costs         % of        financing   Bank-
                                                                    (US$M)         Total        (US$M)   financing
 Component 1: Technical Assistance for Institutional                   12.99            3.2        3.52       2.1
 Strengthening
 Component 2 : Line o f credit finance infrastructure projects       163.10           39.9        89.00      53.5
 Component 3 : IDAiMIGA and AFD Guarantee Facility                   227.25           55.6        70.00      42.1
 Component 4 : Project Implementation                                   3.20            0.8        3.20       1.9
 Contingencies and unallocated                                          2.10            0.5        0.70       0.4
r                                             Total Project Costs    408.64          100.0       166.42     100.0
                                     Total FinancingRequired     I   408.64     I    100.0   I   166.42 I   100.0 I
SinceBOAD is only apnancial intermediaryfor the guaranteefacility and IDA, MIGA and AFD will be issuing
the guarantees directly, the total exposure to BOAD under this project is limited to 96.39million.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project:
The project would support key policy and institutional reforms at the core of the MAS, CAS, and
PRSPs. It will assist key institutions to play an active role in developing the regional capital
market and thus the availability o f medium- to long-term commercial financing in the capital
market.

Improvement of the capital market in the WAEMUregion.

        Upgrading o f the regulatory framework for the capital market (equity and bonds) and
        compilation and publication o f market rules and practices taking into account shareholders
        rights (including minority interests); introduction of the practice o f promoting capital
        market activities to help develop a financial and market culture inthe region.
        Introduction by CR o f a credit rating system for companies participating in the market;
        shift from a merit system to disclosure system and incentives for better disclosure for new
        issues.
        Reviewof the Conseil Rigional's statutes and internal regulations.
        Defininga code o f conduct for CR and market intermediaries.
        Defininga regulatory and supervisory framework for market participants.
        Drafting and implementing an accounting system for capital market intermediaries.
        Assisting CR indrafting prudential rules for market participants.


                                                      -15-

    0    Definitionand implementation o f tax harmonization across countries inthe region.
         Improvement in the functioning of the key regional institutions, notably BOAD, the
         WAEMU Commission, Conseil Rggional (capital market regulator), BRVM (stock
         exchange), and the Central Depository/Settlement Bank (Dkpositaire CentraVBanque de
         R2glement [DCIBRU.
         Defining mechanism to ensure coordination between key institutions inWAEMU and in
         the franc zone (the regionalBankingCommission, the Insurance supervisory committee,
         BCEAO, CR and the Pension system supervisory body.
         Setting up o f regulatory framework for a quote driventrading system for bonds and
         introduction o f an OTC trading system.

  Promotion of private sector participation in infrastructure:

         Provision o f the risk mitigation instruments to catalyze medium-to long-term commercial
         financing inthe private infrastructure projects.
         Buildingcapacity o f BOADto assess risks instructuring private infrastructure projects.
    0    Institutional reform within BOADby the creation o f a core investmentbank and a fund for
         public sector financing.

3. Benefitsand target population:
The Project will benefit the population in the eligible WAEMU countries by increasing the
availability and affordability o f modern infrastructure and financial services. A major impediment
to West African regional economic growth i s the lack o f diversified financial products and
services to meet the various needs o f individuals and businesses. Strengthening the financial
infrastructure and increasing competition will help improve domestic resource mobilization and
make financial intermediation more effective. This should translate into lower financial
intermediation costs which would ultimately be passed on to private investors and consumers. The
benefits to the population would be: (i)     development o f an efficient and liquid regional capital
market to support financing needs of the countries for their economic development; (ii)   provision
o f resources to businesses and individual investors to finance investments and increase
opportunities for employment and more efficient services to the entire population; and (iii)
development o f private commercial financing to support local and region-wide infrastructure
development.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Components 1,2 and 4

The implementation arrangements have been discussed and agreed with all beneficiaries. BOAD
will be the borrower of the credit and have responsibility for project implementation. The
Technical Assistance Component will be implemented by BOAD for its own account. A portion
o f the technical assistance to other market players (CR, BRVM, WAEMU Commission BCEAO
and SGI's) will be handled through Conseil Rkgional, WAEMU Commission and BCEAO which
will liaise with BOAD for information centralization purposes and other institutions to ensure
timely implementationo f activities under their responsibilities.




                                                  -16-

To ensure better coordination between different donors involved in the project, it was agreed
between the beneficiary institutions, the World Bank and the Canadian Agency for International
Development to transfer the grants into a common account managed by the World Bank. For the
implementation o f different activities envisaged under the Technical Assistance component,
disbursement will be made out o f this account following instructions from Project Coordinator.
The World Bank will issue the final non objection after consultation with the donors. Supervision
missions will bejointly organized by the donors and led by the World Bank. Should a donor elect
to maintain its contribution separately from the common account, then disbursement o f funds by
this particular donor will be made following its guidelines after non-objection from the World
Bank.

As with the previous three IDA credits to BOAD (Nos. 969-WAF, 1331-WAF and 2089-WAF),
no parallel guarantee by the WAEMU member countries will be required; IDA'SArticles o f
Agreement allow it to lend directly to a regional institution without a parallel government
guarantee, at its discretion. Annex 4 includes an institutional assessment o f BOAD. The
assessment concludes that BOAD i s financially solid and has the capacity to borrow from IDA.

The Project will be implemented over a five year period from 2004 to 2009. The project will be
implementedby a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) set up inBOAD.The PCUwill be responsible
for: (a) coordinating the implementation o f the various components o f the project, including
procurement, accounting and auditing o f accounts; and (b) monitoring the implementation o f the
project and reporting on implementation progress to participating institutions and IDA.

The PCU will consist o f a project coordinator and four project component managers who would
be responsible for the management of the various project activities intheir respective institutions.
The project managers will be located ineach o f the other project beneficiaries which are BCEAO,
BOAD, Conseil Rigional andthe WAEMU Commission. The project coordinator will be selected
from BOAD staff based on hisher ability to effectively lead the implementation o f a multi-activity
project. The functions o f the project coordinator will include the following:

         Project management (coordinating project implementation, monitoring project
         beneficiaries, and interactingwith all personnel involved inthe project)
         Procurement o f goods and selection o f consultants
         Disbursement o f project funds
         Budgetary planningand financial control
         Reporting
    0    Audit arrangements

The project coordinator will be assisted by a financial management specialist, a procurement
specialist, and an administrative assistant who will be recruited prior to credit effectiveness. The
PCU will receive guidance from a Project Steering Committee (PSC) consisting o f representatives
o f all project beneficiaries, including BCEAO, BOAD, Conseil Regional, WAEMU Commission,
BRVM and Societis de Gestion et d'Intermediation (SGI), and one person representing all the
governments. The PSC will meet at least once every three months to assess progress made in the
project and provide guidance on ways to improve the impact o f project activities. The operating



                                                 -17-

expenses o f the PSC and project managers will be covered by the project, with the exception o f
logistical expenses (i.e., office, office equipment, electricity and water, which are to be covered by
each beneficiary institution). The salaries o f persons working on the project would follow the
salary scale o f their institutions in order to avoid disparities and facilitate the retention o f
personnel after project completion.

The PCU will be charged with monitoring and evaluation o f project activities. A quarterly
monitoring table and progress reports will be prepared by the PCU and discussed with the
Steering Committee.

InBOAD, qualified staff would be charged with specific functions, such as financial management
and accounting, procurement, environmental and social impact assessment, project supervision
and monitoring, guarantees and risk insurance. The key personnel assigned to these functions
would be trained and would receive adequate support to enable them to assume full responsibility
for those functions during project implementation and within the institution after the project's
completion.

Component 3

A Guarantee Facility Guidebook has been prepared and agreed with BOAD that prescribes
operating policies and procedures for the facility.        These include: (i)eligibility criteria and
operational procedures for sub-projects; (ii)financial, legal, environmental and social assessment,
appraisal and monitoring procedures for individual sub-projects; (iii)the general terms and
conditions o f the guarantees available under the Facility; (iv) the principles o f deployment o f the
IDA PRG and the MIGA guarantee; (v) IDA, MIGA and AFD approval procedures; and (v) the
role and responsibilities o f BOAD at each stage.

For the Guarantee Facility, a special unit within BOAD (consisting o f two BOAD staff members)
will assist in the initial screening of project related information. This unit will liaise with IDA,
MIGA, AFD as well as with private sector clients o f BOAD. It is proposed that in the initial
implementation period, this unit will benefit from the experience o f a guarantee expert (either by
seconding a World Bank Group staff member or recruiting a consultant) to provide long-term
support to be financed with a grant from AFD. The selection o f the expert will be done according
to a competitive biddingprocess. The expert will provide support to BOAD inmarketing efforts,
training, identification, and assisting the Bank/MIGA/AFD in their appraisal and supervision of
sub-projects. In addition, training in project financing and risk allocation techniques would be
provided by the World Bank Group to BOAD's staff.

BOAD will initially be expected to be involved in the following tasks: (i)marketing and
promoting the guarantee facility; (ii)   identifying and screening sub-projects; (iii) assisting in the
processingo f sub-projects and (iv) assisting inmonitoring and administering o f executed projects.
It is proposed that BOAD's offices throughout the region, in consultation with local and foreign
commercial lenders, potential investors, and host governments respond to inquiries from private
sponsors or identify investment projects requiring mitigation against sovereign risks. BOAD
would screen private sector proposals for the use o f guarantees under the Guarantee Facility for



                                                 - 1 8 -

consistency with the country CAS or PRSPs, and assist the private sector in preparing formal
requests for guarantees under the Guarantee Facility. BOAD would also screen such applications
to identify key issues, including those relating to safeguards. Based on the recommendation o f
BOAD, IDA, MIGA and AFD, as appropriate, will process the applications in accordance with
procedures discussed inthe Guarantee Facility Guidebook.

Successful implementation o f the Guarantee Facility will depend upon effective cooperation and
coordination between IDA, MIGA, and AFD on the one hand and between the Guarantors and
BOAD on the other hand. BOAD will nominate a BOAD Guarantee Facility Coordinator, with
specific responsibilities for implementing the component related to the Guarantee Facility. In
addition, IDA, MIGA, and AFD will each designate a member o f their staff to act as the
Guarantee Facility Coordinator to help implement the Guarantee Facility. IDA will designate a
staff member from the Infrastructure Economics and Finance Department, which handles
guarantee transactions under the Infrastructure Vice Presidency, to represent IDA on IDA
Guarantee related issues. Along with the Task Team Leader, the Guarantee Facility Coordinators
o f IDA, MIGA and AFD will be the focal points for the Guarantee Facility in each o f these
institutions. The three Guarantors will also each designate a member o f their staff to act as the
safeguards coordinator to help implement safeguard related issues for individual sub-projects
under the Guarantee Facility.

IDA, MIGA and AFD will charge fees for the provision o f their guarantees from the private
sector as per their current policies ineffect (See Annex 11for further details). For its support, it i s
expected that BOAD will charge a fee o f 15 bps per annum o f the guaranteed amount from the
private sector on the IDA and AFD guaranteed amount under the relevant sub project. MIGA will
pay BOAD a fee, in accordance with its procedures, o f ten percent o f the annual premium(up to a
maximum o f US$50,000) paid by the investor to MIGA. These fees collected by BOAD would be
used to defray the cost o f administering the facility by BOAD, including the marketing and
operating costs relatedto the facility and the cost o f employing staff and any consultants to ensure
that individualtransactions comply with the requirements o f the Guarantee Facility.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project is consistent with the development objectives o f WAEMU governments to:
(a) remove infrastructure constraints hinderingeconomic growth and meet the increasing demand
for water, electricity and transportation over the medium-term; (b) develop the countries'
potential, both human and economic; (c) attract and support private investment in infrastructure;
and (d) promote and increase economic integration among WAEMU countries and beyond to the
entire West African region.

Several design alternatives were considered during project preparation. The first alternative was
to finance the implementation o f the projects under the credit line directly through the World
Bank assistance programs to each o f the individual countries. This alternative was rejected
because it would be difficult to coordinate separate national programs at the same time to reach
the desired integration objectives. Inaddition, there are some countries inwhich there may not be


                                                - 19-

a transport project in the immediate future. The proposed project approach would permit the
coordinated investmentsand a higher impact on each of the countries.

The second approach considered was to limit the scope o f the project to a line o f credit to BOAD
without links to the strengtheningo f the capital market. This alternative was rejected because o f
the critical importance o f developing capital market instruments and because it would have
encouraged BOAD's dependency on external, including IDA, financing. It was thus decided to
include a technical assistance component to strengthen BOAD, Conseil Rigional, the WAEMU
Commission, and BRVM to implement policy reforms in support o f capital market development.
The reforms envisaged would enable BOAD to play an active role in the regional capital market
and enhance its sustainability.

Another alternative design considered was to process the operation as two separate, but parallel,
projects: on one side one project would consist of the Technical Assistance and the Line o f
Credit, and on the other side the Guarantee Facility as recommended at the Regional Quality
Enhancement Review (QER) o f the Project held on September 24-25, 2002. The project team
made a thorough assessment o f the issue during appraisal and reached the conclusion to maintain
the project as one operation to avoid loosing the synergy among components. The approach was
confirmed with the borrower during appraisal.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                    Latest SI lervision
              Sector issue                              Project                         (PSR)   atings
                                                                                (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                               Implementation     Development
 Bank-financed                                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Lack o f medium- andlong-term            First Credit Line                           S                S
 resources
 Lack ofmedium- and long-term             Second Credit Line                          S                S
 resources
 Lack o fmedium- and long-term            Third Credit Line                           S                S
resources
 Lack of reliable and cost efficient      BCEAO Payment System                        S                S
Davment svstem                            Proiect
3ther development agencies
Lack of medium- and long-term             Lines of credit from African
resources                                Development Bank
Technical assistance to BRVM             I'echnical assistance form
                                          "IDA
'/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatis :tory)




                                                   - 20 -

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Allow Sufficient Time for Project Preparation. Combining credit lines and guarantee projects
take more time to develop than i s originally estimated and therefore more time should be allowed
for consensus-building and learning from previous shortcomings. Particular attention has been
paid to ensuringthat the project designtakes into account the experience with regional projects in
Africa and elsewhere, and integrates approaches currently being pursued in other regions. Lessons
and approaches integrated into the project are summarized below.

Simplicity in project design helps ensure timely implementation. The design of project
components should be kept as simple as possible and should be based on well-targeted objectives,
well-defined actions plans with timetables for implementation, and clear evaluation criteria with
monitorable indicators. The scope o f the program should be realistic and take into account the
political realities inthe countries but also institutional capacity o f the implementingagencies. To
address this issue, the project design allows for some flexibility to respond to changing political
conditions and institutional changes that may take place in the WAEMU region during
implementation. To contribute to simplicity in implementation, no new units or institutions, with
the exception o f the Project Coordination Unit and the Steering Committee, will be created; the
project will rely on strengthening existing structures that have the required capacity to implement
the activities. For the guarantee facility, BOAD would act as an intermediary between IDA,
MIGA, AFD and the private sector with an understanding that satisfactory due-diligence would
be undertakenby IDA, MIGA and AFD, and that the sub-projects will meet agreed environmental
and social safeguard policies. However, as this is a regional project covering eight countries, and
considering that many institutions are involved, inevitably some level o f complexity i s to be
expected.

Stakeholders' involvement during project preparation and implementation is key to
achieving project's development objectives. The main lesson learned from the three IDA lines
o f credit to BOAD i s that a participatory approach i s crucial for a successful implementation o f
the project. Also, active partnership with all stakeholders permits the identification o f corrective
measures during project implementation. The project was prepared and appraised with full
participation o f key monetary authorities and stakeholders (BCEAO, BOAD, Conseil Rkgional,
the WAEMU Commission, BRVM, commercial banks, and other private sector representatives).
This helped ensure the identification o f beneficiary needs and future coordination of project
activities among the beneficiaries. The process also requires that the Bank assess the sub-projects
to be financed     under the project and monitor the impact indicators set in the project. All
sub-projects under the line o f credit will be sent to the Bank for non-objection prior to their final
approval by BOAD. Also, all projects under the Guarantee Facility that require IDA andor
MIGA support will be reviewedand assessed as necessary by IDA and/or MIGA staff and the
guarantees would be approved by IDA andor MIGA. AFD Guarantees will be reviewed and
approved by AFD.

Local expertise i s a key to enhance borrower's ownership of the project. Local ownership
usually increases ifthere i s local participation inthe project design and inproject execution. Given
the nature o f the work to be carried out, it is expected that local consultants and contractors will
play an important role in project implementation In addition, as mentioned above, BOAD and


                                                  - 21 -

other beneficiary staff were instrumental in identifying the scope and content o f the project and
will assist insupervision.

Demand surveys for the target market. The main lesson learned from reviewing six
guaranteekredit facilities that the Bank has undertaken, it was noted that such facilities should be
prepared based on an assessment o f the target market to obtain clear indications o f demand for
the specific instrument offered under the facility. Furthermore, it was noted that if possible,
projects should utilize an existing institution as an intermediary, provided that it has the needed
capacity to carry out the role envisaged for the intermediary. It has also been proposed that the
Bank should keep tighter control o f the quality o f the sub-projects and the due diligence process
under such facilities, particularly on safeguard related policies. The Guarantee Facility component
o f the proposed Project is being structured to incorporate these lessons learnt. Prior to, and
during the preparation of the Facility, demand assessment was carried out for the instruments
offered under the facility. The WAEMU countries have indicated strong interest in the use o f the
Guarantee Facility. The demand assessment conducted during the preparation o f the project, was
undertaken in three (out o f eight) countries. The assessment carried out by independent
consultants indicates that about 40 projects with a cumulative project cost o f about US$720
million can be supported by the Facility during the implementation o f the Project. The Facility
does not create a new intermediary, but relies on a regional institution, BOAD, for the
administration o f the facility. BOAD would act as a third-party intermediary between IDA,
MIGA, AFD and the private sector. It has been agreed that due-diligence on sub-projects would
be undertaken by IDA, MIGA and AFD, and that all sub-projects will meet the environmental
guidelines and environmental and social safeguard policies (as agreed in the Guidebook). This
arrangement will enable BOAD to develop the needed skills to evaluate private projects. Last, all
sub-projects will be reviewed as necessary by IDA, MIGA and AFD staff and individual
guarantees would be approved by the IDA Africa Region Vice-president, the Executive
Vice-president o f MIGA on behalf o f the President, as is normal practice, and AFD Board o f
Executive Directors before they are issued.




                                                - 22 -

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The management o f BOAD has taken the initiative to press the Bank for continued support to
pursue the financing of key infrastructure, and its ongoing efforts to support regional integration
and reduce poverty. Representatives o f BCEAO, BOAD, WAEMU Commission and member
country governments confirmed their interest in continued World Bank support to the regional
capital market and to BOAD, and the active participation o f the institutions inpreparation showed
commitment and ownership. InJune 2002, the Council o f Ministers set up a committee consisting
o f BCEAO, Conseil Rigional, BOAD and WAEMU to encourage the development o f the
regional financial market which prepared an action plan to remove impediments. This action plan
was approved by the Council o f Ministers o f the WAEMU in December 2002, and is a sign o f
borrower commitment to the project. Furthermore, all beneficiary institutions participated in
project appraisal pointing to their commitment to the project. Regarding the guarantee facility,
duringa demand survey mission which took place insix WAEMU countries, and discussions with
other countries thereafter, all governments expressed their interest in participating in the Facility
and have provided a list o f projects for which they intend to request a guarantee to boost
investors interest. BOAD, as the main regional development bank, took the lead in organizing a
regional privatization workshop under which the guarantee instruments as well as the proposed
guarantee facility were presented. The governments o f four eligible countries (Senegal, Burkina,
Mali and Niger) have already written to the Bank confirming their interest in participating in the
facility. Three other governments are expected to confirm their interest inthe near term.

5. Value added of Banksupport in this project:
The Bank i s seen by both the local counterparts, market participants, and the donor community as
having credibility in the promotion and financing o f regional integration and poverty reduction
programs inAfrica. The Bank has already provided considerable institutional support to BOAD in
the past and has a comparative advantage inproviding the support for the next phase of BOAD
institutional development. Bank intervention will help with: (i) provision o f technical expertise
                                                                 the
and experience in financial sector operations; (ii) ability to mobilize or leverage other donor
                                                     an
contributions; and (iii)an ability to provide a wide range o f flexible and tailored instruments with
a joint IDNMIGNAFD facility to mitigate risks especially in current investment environment.
This intervention will allow the Bank to support small to medium-size infrastructure investments
in the region. The proposed Project is part of a broader Bank Group effort involving IFC and
MIGA and extemal partners like AFD and CIDA to support private sector entry ininfrastructure
through selected instruments and projects capable o f fostering inter-African cooperation and
economic integration. The guarantee facility, by allowing BOAD to expand its line o f business,
may help BOADto reach an acceptable grade credit rating.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (seeAnnex 4):
0 Costbenefit       NPV=US$million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other (specify)

The proposed project will provide the resources and capacity to help the WAEMU countries



                                                - 23 -

improve the regional capital market and improve regional infrastructure. It will contribute to
WAEMU's efforts to achieve sustainable regional economic growth and poverty reduction
through provision o f efficient, region-wide infrastructure services and greater financial market
integration.

It is not possible to quantify all the benefits of the project. However, the project will play an
important role in improving the availability o f investment capital and infrastructure to accelerate
growth in the region. Numerous studies have demonstrated the negative effect o f high
transportation costs on Africa's competitiveness. The project i s expected to reduce transport
costs and expand the market, with it related effect on competitiveness. In addition, the increased
availability o f long-term capital will contribute to increased investmentand increased growth.

Feasibility studies for a group o f regional roads have been identifiedand could be financed under
the line o f credit point to high benefits, with economic rates o f return o f the order o f 13 to 20
percent. The economic rate o f return o f all projects financed under the line o f credit are expected
to exceed 12percent. Equally, the market survey conducted in connection with the preparation o f
the guarantee facility also showed highrates o f return on potential investments.

The project will enable the Bank Group to continue to support and further strengthen BOAD and
other regional institutions which play a key role in integration and the development o f the capital
markets inthe eight WAEMU countries. Inthe case o f the line o f credit, by dealing with BOAD,
whose geographic scope covers eight countries, the Bank group would also achieve some
economies o f scales compared with lending individually to member countries. Sub-projects to be
financed under the line of credit component may be too small to justify direct lending to the
recipient country.

Economic analysis would be carried out for all private projects that are supported by the
guarantee facility to ensure that they meet World Bank Group operational policies and guidelines
regarding economic assessment o f investmentprojects, as appropriate.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)

A financial analysis o fBOADis giveninAnnex 4.

BOAD is a well-managed bank, capable of generatingearnings inspite o f dealing ina difficult and
underdeveloped financial market. The institution has been profitable for many years and has a
reasonably good financial condition (see Annex 4). An independent audit o f its loan portfolio,
carried out by Price Waterhouse Finance (Paris), has concluded that 96 percent o f BOAD loans
are performing, which i s excellent for a development institution. BOAD's portfolio could be
affected by the political events in CBte d'Ivoire, one o f its largest clients. BOAD carried out an
analysis of the impact o f its Ivorian crisis on its portfolio and concluded that the situation was
manageable. BOAD i s highly leveraged inforeign currency and this position is unhedgedbecause
o f foreign exchange regulations in the WAEMU countries which do not allow residents to hold
foreign currency denominated assets. Member Governments have agreed in principle that BOAD



                                                 - 24 -

 (i)sallowedtoopenforeigncurrencydenominatedaccountstoinvestitsexcessliquidity,and(ii)
    i
may include an indexation clause in loan agreements to transfer exchange risk to borrowing
 countries.

The bank's borrowing capacity is based on its callable capital and its net worth, and its debt
 should not at any time exceed 100 percent o f this callable capital (section 31 o f its statutes) or
300 percent o f its net worth (whichever is lower). Given the weak financial condition o f many o f
BOAD's shareholders, it is not prudent to base the bank's borrowing capacity on the total of
callable capital o f the WAEMU member states. Therefore, different scenarios have been analyzed
to determine BOAD's borrowing capacity (Annex 4). The most realistic one i s to base the
borrowing capacity on the bank's net worth, the callable capital heldby BCEAO, France, Belgium
and a portion o f callable capital owned by regional member countries. Under such an assumption,
and taking into account the envisaged credit under the proposed project, the required amount o f
bonds to be issued to improve BOAD's role as benchmark issuer inthe regional financial market,
and since BOAD has been a long standing client o f the Bank since 1973, has borrowed
successively three lines o f credit and its overall financial condition is satisfactory, it is the team's
assessment that lending under the current project on an unguaranteed basis i sjustified.

Financial analysis would be carried out for all private projects that are supported by the guarantee
facility to ensure that they meet World Bank Group operational policies and guidelines regarding
financial assessment o f investmentprojects, as appropriate.

Fiscal Impact:
NIA

3. Technical:

The project i s technically sound and takes into account best practices in its design. The line o f
credit component will be executed by BOAD which has successfully implemented similar
programs inthe past. BOAD will play an intermediary role inthe Guarantee Facility to help build
its capacity. Technical assistance will only be provided in the context o f well-articulated business
plans prepared by the beneficiaries.

Technical analysis would be carried out for all private projects that are supported by the guarantee
facility to ensure that they meet World Bank Group operational policies and guidelines regarding
technical assessment o f investment projects, as appropriate.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:
BOAD will have overall responsibility for executing the project. The project will be coordinated
by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located inBOAD and consisting o f the project coordinator
four project component managers in each o f the beneficiary institutions (BOAD, CR, BCEAO,
WAEMU Commission, BRVM). The Coordinator will lead the PCU and will liaise with the
existing institutions and the project component managers. The Unit will be staffed with qualified


                                                - 25 -

personnel hired either from existing BOAD staff or following a competitive process. BOAD will
have direct responsibility for the implementation of all aspects o f the line o f credit and o f its
technical assistance program. The responsibility for the technical aspects o f the assistance to other
beneficiary institutions will rest with them.
4.2 Projectmanagement:
BOADhas successfully executed three Bank-financed line of credit projects and is ina position to
execute this project. The main institutional issues identified relate to BOAD's knowledge o f
environmental and social impact analysis discussed in paragraph 5 below and its project
supervision capacity, given its expanded mandate. Technical assistance will be provided through
the project for institutional capacity buildingandto promote collaboration among institutions.

Beneficiary institutions have qualified staff which have experience with other World
Bank-financed projects. Project implementation will be monitored by a Steering Committee
including BCEAO, BOAD, Conseil Rigional, and the WAEMU Commission. The Steering
Committee will provide guidance on ways to improve project's effectiveness and impact. The
team will be reinforced, as necessary, with short-term consultants.

BOAD's Division of Rural Development and Infrastructure (DDRI) inthe Department of Project
Financing and Studies i s responsible for the supervision o f infrastructure projects. As the
infrastructure portfolio is expected to expand considerably with activities supported under the
project, the staff o f the Department will be strengthened. The DDRIhas only one civil engineer to
manage its portfolio, which currently amounts to some CFAF 35-40 billion. BOAD has indicated
that it will recruit at a minimum, one civil engineer and a transport economist to be assigned to
DDRIto appraise and supervise the projects in its portfolio. BOAD will also need to update its
operations manual to incorporate modem appraisal and supervision techniques, and monitoring
tools. The manual will also provide greater details on the evaluation and follow-up o f the
environmental and social assessment o f projects. It i s expected that BOAD guidelines will be
similar to those o f the World Bank. BOAD's supervision function will be expanded to deal with
the project's fiduciary and physical aspects, and to ensure the monitoring o f the project's impact
on development.

An Environmental and Social Management Unitwill be established inBOAD duringthe first year
o f the project. This Unit i s to continue its operations after project completion. The project will
finance the strengthening o f the unit's capacities. The Procedures Manual for this unit will be
drawn up as part o f the environmental and social assessment study. The Environmental
Framework policies and procedures were approved by the World Bank and BOAD's Board o f
Directors. This unit will be based within the Directorate o f Rural Development and Infrastructure
(DDRI).It must be capable of influencing the quality of road projects and other BOAD projects
from the environmental and social standpoints. It i s expected that all BOAD projects (and not
only those financed under the credit) will be environmentally screened using the criteria that the
World Bankuses.
4.3 Procurementissues:
BOAD through the PCU will be responsible for procurement under the Institutional Support
Component. Each beneficiary institution, through its component manager, will prepare


                                                 - 26 -

procurement documentation which it will submit to the PCU to handle the procurement.

 Procurement for sub-projects under the line o f credit will be carried out by the sub-borrowers.
However, BOAD will ensure that credit proceeds are used for the intendedpurposes and, inthis
connection, BOAD will: (i)     examine procedures for procurement and selection o f consultants; (ii)
examine biddingdocuments for the provision o f works and equipment and requests for consultant
quotes, appraisal reports and contracts, and ensure that all these documents produced by the
sub-borrower adhere to procedures and are acceptable to the World Bank; and (iii)         ensure that
they conform to those mandatedby the World Bank.

BOAD's procurement capacity has been assessed. The assessment concluded that, while
considerable capabilities exist, there i s a need to update BOAD's procurement procedures and to
train the staff. BOAD does not have staff specifically assigned to procurement, as this task i s
performed by engineers from the Technical Division. They are competent, but have a heavy work
load. A procurement specialist will be recruited to strengthen the capabilities in this area before
credit effectiveness. In2000, BOAD updated its procurement procedures manual, which sets out
the modalities o f procuring goods, services and works financed in whole or in part by BOAD
loans. Its main shortcoming was that the section on the use o f consultants contained the same
procedures as those for works and goods. BOAD does not have standard bidding documents or
standard requests for proposals, templates for bid evaluation or standard contracts. BOAD
accepts documents existing in the Borrower country as long as they adhere to the procedures
defined in the above-mentioned document. Given the deficiency noted in the procedures for the
selection o f consultants, it was agreed that BOAD would use World Bank procurement
procedures, i.e., standard requests for proposals and standard contracts and model evaluation
report for the hiring o f consultants. Since projects selected for financing under the line o f credit
will essentially be large-scale road projects subject to international competitive bidding, it was
agreed that the borrowers use the World Bank's standard documents, i.e., standard bidding
documents, procurement o f works (civil works), and guide to the bid evaluation report (for
procurement o f equipment and works).

Private projects to be supported by the Guarantee Facility will meet procurement criteria o f
''economy and efficiency" as applied for guarantees by the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Project Coordination Unit in BOAD will carry out the financial management o f the project.
BOAD has an acceptable financial and accounting system with well-qualified staff. BOAD has
substantial experience inmanaging projects financed by donors. It has borrowed three times inthe
past from the Bank and the credits were well managed. Inlight o f the potential growth o f BOAD's
activities, the finance and accounting department needs to be reinforced by recruiting more
qualified staff. To this end, the project will contribute to reinforce the BOAD's capacity in several
areas (accounting, internal audit, project supervision, etc). Also, the coordination unit will include
qualified  accounting and procurement specialists which would be recruited before project
effectiveness. A project operational manual describing roles, responsibilities and relations between
Coordination Unit and other actors involved inthe project is under preparation. This manual will
cover both operational and financial management aspects. Based on the assessment conducted,



                                                 - 27 -

the borrower financial management system satisfies IDA'Sminimumrequirements. The assessment
will be updated when the project staff are appointed. Similarly, for the guarantee facility
component, a guidebook has been prepared and describes the terms and conditions for use o f the
Facility.

BOAD usually produces financial and accounting reports within a short period after the close o f
each exercise. The financial and accounting system can produce, on a regular basis and upon
request, informationwith respect to commitments by donors and other financial information. The
project will use BOAD's accounting system which has sufficient flexibility to track the use o f
project funds. Project Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will not be generated automatically
from the BOAD system, but will be compiled manually. The PCU will submit quarterly FMRs to
the Bank which will track progress on disbursements, expenditures, project progress and
procurement.

BOAD's financial statements are regularly prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. BOAD's accounts are audited annually by BCEAO (monetary authority and main
stockholder o f BOAD), and by an internationally ,recognized auditing firm. In addition, a
management performance audit i s performed every three years. At present, the auditors are Price
WaterhouseKoopers and Ernst and Young respectively. All audits are satisfactory and there was
no significant issue raised by the auditors. BOAD's external control mechanism is reliable and
adequate. The line o f credit which represents about 85 percent o f total credit will finance about 13
large contracts o f which two will be subject to prior review and the remaining will be subject to
IDA post review. Considering the robust internal and external controls, the Bank will accept the
BOAD's audited financial statements which should be submittedno later than 6 months after the
end o f each fiscal year. In addition, the annual audit report and the triennial management audit
report will be sent to IDA upon completion. Also, a portfolio audit will be conducted at least
every 2 years and sent to IDA within 6 months following the end o f the fiscal year.


5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
BOAD prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) during project
preparation. This document has been disclosed in BOAD's Headquarters in Togo, in its member
countries and in the Infoshop in Washington. The ESMF analyzed the strategic framework for
environmental and social management within BOAD and its member countries. It identified
training, awareness and capacity building with regard to Environmental Assessment as some o f
the high priority areas. Numerous insufficiencies and constraints were identified in the national
legal environmental frameworks, includingthe road sector, which will be partly addressed through
the project.

The World Bank Safeguard Policies which apply to this project, other than the Guarantee Facility,
are the following: Environmental Assessment OP 4.0 1, Natural Habitat OP 4.04, Cultural
Property OPN 4.11, Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12, Forests OP 4.38 and Projects on
International Waterways OP 7.50. These policies are not triggered at present, but might be
triggered by projects financed under the line o f credit. The screening procedure per sub-project


                                                    - 28 -

described inthe ESMFwill identify which safeguardpolicies are triggered.

The projects under the Guarantee Facility (IDA, MIGA and AFD guarantees) will comply with
the Environmental and Safeguard Policies of MIGA. To streamline the processing o f small private
projects under the facility, Senior Management has agreed to apply MIGA's Safeguard Policies to
all projects considered under the Guarantee Facility (see Annex 12 for differences between IDA,
IBRD and MIGA Safeguard Policies). Procedures for environmental and social screening of
sub-projects financed under the Guarantee Facility are described indetail inthe Guarantee Facility
Guidebook. Disclosure of safeguard documents, such as As and RAPS,will done as follows:
Disclosure policies of the respective Guarantors (IDA and MIGA) will be applied as part o f each
guarantor's due diligence process. In the event MIGA i s involved with IDA injointly supporting
an investment, MIGA will rely on IDA'S disclosure process, as per MIGA's May 2002
Environmental and Social Review Procedures.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP andare they adequate?
There are two Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs), which are in compliance
with World Bank Safeguard Policies and Guidelines. In response to the institutional and legal
shortcomings and in consideration o f the environmental and social challenges faced by BOAD and
the member states inthe road sector, two ESMPs were prepared inJune 2003:
(i) ESMPof BOAD,whichdealswiththeresponsestothekeyproblemsidentifiedwithin
    The
BOAD. This ESMP i s structured around the following two issues: an Operational Manual for
BOAD comprising operational measures for Environmental and Social Management; and an
Institutional Strengthening Plan for BOAD comprising institutional and legal measures and
activities related to training, information and awarenessbuilding

(ii)The ESMP ofthe road sector inthe member states ofBOADwhich provides relevant
responses to key problems identified in the road sector, and to the institutional and legal
capabilities inthe member states o f BOAD to deal with these problems. The ESMP i s structured
around the following two issues: an Operational Manual for the road sector in member states o f
BOAD, comprising operational measures for Environmental and Social Management; and an
Institutional Strengthening Plan for member states o f BOAD, comprising institutional and legal
measures and activities relatedto training, information and awareness campaign.

With regard to environmental and social management for the first-year program, special analyses
were made for the first-year roads program plannedby BOAD with specific recommendations for
the agencies and consultants involved in the program. These analyses are based on existing
technical dossiers and on field visits to the roads in the member countries concerned. The
recommendations for each road project take into account the Safeguard Policies of the World
Bank. Due to time constraints, the three specific Environmental Assessments (EAs) were not
finalized during appraisal. They will be finalized in the coming months and will need to be
reviewed and approved by the Regional unit before the project funds are used. Also, because o f
the financial intermediary nature o f the project, umbrella approval i s required initially to make sure
that World Bank safeguards policies and guidelines will be applied to each subsequentproject. As
long as these three As are not approved by the World Bank and disclosed in the country, at
BOAD Headquarters and in the Infoshop, these road projects cannot be financed through World


                                                  - 29 -

Bank funds.

BOAD has agreed to establish a Safeguard Policy system, which is a copy o f the World Bank's
Safeguard Policy system, including screening and clearance procedures, within its project
preparation procedures. This Safeguard Policy System has been approved by BOAD's Board o f
Directors on October 13, 2003, fulfilling the conditions of negotiations. BOAD will establish
within its ranks an Environmental and Social Unit, which would be responsible for the
management of the Safeguard Policy aspects o f all BOAD financed projects. Ths unit will be
based within the Directorate o f Rural Development and Infrastructure (DDRI). This unit will
obtain an on-the-job training through a Technical Assistance component, financed from the credit.
The Manual o f Procedures will describe the safeguard policy process in detail. The project will
implement the two ESMP's.


5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status of EA:
                      Date of receipt of final draft:
The Final Draft ESMF was receivedinFebruary 2003. This ESMF has been disclosed inBOAD's
member countries, at BOAD's Headquarters and at the Infoshop inWashington.

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposedenvironment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedandwhich groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted during the scoping meeting, the preparation o f the draft ESMF
report and during a stakeholders workshop held inM a y 12-14,2003, inLome.
5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluatethe impact o f the project on the
environment'? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults of the EMP?
The ESMF report includes a monitoring plan with quantifiable and measurable indicators and
monitoring responsibilities to serve as a baseline in environmental assessment, in the
implementation of road projects, and inenvironmental monitoring.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, andspecify the project's social
development outcomes.
Although this project does not entail interventions targeted at specific social groups, it can have a
highimpact on low income groups as follows: (i) to the regional infrastructure, including
                                                         support
rural areas, will help the poorest segment o f the population and therefore alleviate poverty; and
(ii) efficientfinancialsystemwillmakefinancialproductsandservicesmorereadilyavailableto
     an
groups that had not had access to them inthe past.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?

The views o f key stakeholders have been taken into account in project preparation. The project
benefits key market institutions which participated inpreparation. Inaddition, other key players in
the financial markets in the countries, such as the banking community, were consulted. Donors
involved in capital market issues inthe region and active with BOAD provided views which were
incorporated in the project design. These donors are: European Investment Bank (EIB), African


                                                     - 30 -

Development Bank (ADB), Canadian Agency for International Development (CIDA), Agence
Franqaisede Diveloppement (AFD), and U S Treasury.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Continuous meetings have been held with NGOs and civil society throughout project preparation
and their views have been taken into account inthe project design.
6.4 What institutionalairangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The implementation arrangement i s such that views from different stakeholders will be solicited
and taken into account throughout project implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Regular surveys will be conducted to monitor performance interms of social outcomes.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                    0Yes 0     No

7.2 Describe provisions madeby the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
BOAD has prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). The
procedures described in this ESMF are in compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies. The
ESMF describes in detail adoption by BOAD o f Safeguard Policies similar to the World Bank
Safeguard Policies, capacity building within BOAD to carry out their Safeguard Policy tasks and
mechanism to screen sub-projects for environmental and social impacts. Based on the screening
procedure, it will be decided if an EA or RAP will need to be preparedby the project proponent.
Theses provisions are applicable to the line o f credit component only as MIGA's rules will apply
to the Guarantee Component.




                                                  - 31 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
WAEMU countries can only develop if there is a sound economic policy framework in place
which results in macroeconomic stability, effective support for the private sector through, among
other things, an improved capital market and basic infrastructure which facilitates integration and
investment. The project supports two o f these conditions. It provides technical assistance to
promote the regional capital market, it will provide new instruments to promote investment
through the partial risk guarantee facility and a line o f credit to finance public infrastructure. The
reforms and technical support programs envisaged should contribute to the long-term
sustainability o f BOAD and other beneficiary institutions. The introduction o f new financial
instrumentsalong with the proposed measures to strengthen the capital markets should encourage
investmentinthe mediumterm.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                            Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The regional policymakers, regulators                    S          The World Bank management approached high
(Conseil Regional, BCEAO, tax                                       level political leaders to ensure understanding o f
authorities, etc.) and intermediaries fail to                       the role o f the capital market inthe region, and
make reforms and capital investments                                to ensure that there i s commitment to
necessary for the establishment and                                 implementation o f the program.
functioning o f the bond market.
From Components to Outputs
Institutional capacity does not exist to                 M          Technical assistance will be provided to senior
effectively implement the activities o f the                        management and personnel o f key institutions to
project.                                                            ensure satisfactory monitoring o f project
                                                                    implementation.
Co-financing, grants and other donors'                   M          Donors have been associated inproject
participation available for the TA                                  preparation and project implementation will
component, the line o f credit.                                     done ina coordinated manner.
Overall Risk Rating                                      M




                                                       - 32 -

3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):

                          Risk                           Type o f  Risk    RiskMinimization Measure
                                                          Risk    Rating
  A possible risk that couldjeopardize the project                   M     Duringproject appraisal
  would be the senior management of BOAD                                   agreement was reached on precise
  insistence that the credit line be usedto finance                        eligibility criteria for use o f the
  both the commercial and non-commercial public                            credit line and the guarantee
  and private sector projects.                                             facility.

  Political and social instability inCote d'Ivoire                   H     The project will provide
  fails to be resolved leadingto economic                                  assistance to regional institutions
  uncertainties and affecting the functioning of                           especially to Conseil Rigional
  regional markets and institutions.                                       to be able to operate in any
                                                                           member country, thus reducing
                                                                           specific country risks.



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
         T h e conditions of effectiveness under the DCA are the following:

         1. BOAD has adopted the Project Implementation Manual and the Guarantee Facility
             Guidebook, both inform and substance satisfactory to the Association.
         2. The FMFNCREPMF Grant Agreement, the FDNCREPMF Grant Agreement, the
             CREPMF/BOAD Subsidiary Grant Agreement, the CREPMFLJEMOA Commission
             Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the CIDNCREPMF Grant Agreement have been
             executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the
             right of CREPMF, BOAD or the UEMOA Commission, as the case may be, to make
             withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness o f the Development Credit
             Agreement, have been hlfilled.

         3. The Guarantee Facility Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
             precedent to the right o f the states referred to therein or o f BOAD to request the
             issuance o f any FDA Guarantee, any IDA Guarantee or any MIGA Guarantee, as the
             case may be, except only the effectiveness o f the Development Credit Agreement,
             have been hlfilled.
         4. BOAD has employed three key staff for the Project Coordination Unit, namely a
             procurement specialist, an accountant and an administrative assistant, all in compliance
             with the provisions o f Section I1o f Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.




                                                   - 33 -

         5. The Project Coordination Unit has been established in a manner satisfactory to the
            Association and pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the
            Association.
         6. The Steering Committee has been established in a manner satisfactory to the
            Association and pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the
            Association.


         The conditions o f effectiveness under the Guarantee Facility Agreement are :
         1. The Association has declaredthe Development Credit Agreement Effective.
        2. Adoption by BOAD's management                o f the final draft o f the Guarantee Facility
            Guidebook satisfactory to IDA, MIGA and AFD.
         3. At least four WAEMU member countries and BOAD shall have signed and delivered
            the Guarantee Facility Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, MIGA and AFD, which
            Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action on the
            part o f such countries and BOAD.

        4. An Agreement satisfactory to IDA, MIGA and AFD shall have been signed between
            the Guarantors and BOAD inrelation to the fees to be paid to BOAD inconsideration
            o f its assistance in the Guarantee Facility, which Agreement shall have been duly
            authorized or ratifiedby all necessary action on the part o f BOAD.

         5. An Agreement satisfactory to IDA, MIGA and AFD shall have been signed between
            the Guarantors regarding certain aspects o f the implementation and operation of
            Guarantee Facility.


2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
         1. Conduct, incollaboration with IDA, a mid-termreview on or about thirty months after
            the effective date o fthe DCA.
        2. Reports recording progress o f the project and in meeting indicators sent to the Bank
            every six months.

H. Readiness for implementation
EZ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
        of project implementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

0 2. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
Ix13. The Project ImplementationPlanhas beenappraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
17 Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):
   4.




                                                 -  34 -

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1.Thisproject complieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
El2. Thefollowingexceptionsto Bankpolicies arerecommendedfor approval. Theproject complieswith
     all other applicable Bank policies.

Managing Director, Operations (MDS) appoved on November 21, 2003 a request for an
exception to OP/BP 13.40 (Suspension o f disbursements) and OD 13.45 (Non accrual status and
Loan loss provisioning) in respect to the Togolese Republic. An exception was also granted
allowing MIGA's Environmental Guidelines and Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies to
apply on sub-projects that will be supported by the IDA partial risk guarantee under the proposed
Guarantee Facility.

With respect to MIGA, if the amendment to MIGA's Operational Regulations, Section 3.35 has
been approved by MIGA's Board of Directors, MIGA requests that the Board agree to its
application to the Guarantee Facility, and waive the requirement to circulate a report to the Board
for guarantees for sub-projects under this Guarantee Facility prior to their approval by the
President. In that case, the Board will be informed o f executed guarantees for sub-projects under
the Facility ex-post through the MIGA EVP Quarterly reports.




Noel K.Tshiani                         GerardA. Bya
Team Leader                            Sector Manager/Dh$ctor             Country ManagerlDirector




Motomichi lkawa
Executive Vice President, MIGA




                                               - 35 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                     AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                        Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
                                           Indicators
I Sector-related  CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
  Development o f a unified     [ncrease inPrivate and Public Country & Regional Statistics. Macroeconomic and political
  financial market which will   [nvestments.                    WAEMU Reports.                stability necessary for high
  contribute to regional                                                                      growth and governments
  integration, higheconomic                                                                   commitment to use resources
 growth inthe WAEMU                                                                           for basic health, education
  countries, and increase in                                                                  and infrastructure are
 private and public                                                                           maintained.
 investments inthe region.



  Project Development           3utcome / impact                 Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
  Objective:                      ndicators:
  Key financial institutions in    . Increase involume o f       BOADreports                  Continued WAEMU
  the regional financial market :ommercial financing for         Conseil Rtgional reports     Governments' and Regional
  increasingly meet needs o fthenfrastructure and regional      BCEAO reports                 Monetary Authorities
  market and provide increased  ransactions (US$1 guarantee     Country statistics            commitment to promote
  access to medium- and long-   riggers US$3 o f financing).    WAEMU Commission reports regional integration.
  term financing.
                                l.BOAD is ratedby                Rating agencies              Political stability in the region
                                  ntemational rating agencies    statisticsheports            continues.
                                )y mid-termreview .
                                3.75% o f major investors and Survey at the onset o f the     Integratedand competitive
                                  ssuers recognize BOAD as a    project, at mid-termreview    capital market is assured.
                                  ead bond issuer.               and at project completion.
                                t. Increase in number o f        Survey at the onset o f the  Private sector participation.
                                narket participants satisfied   project, at mid-term review
                                with new market regulations      and at project completion.
                                mdfees structure.
                                  5. Increase in CR efficiency   Conseil Rtgional financial   Transparency inlegal and
                                  total market activity          statements.                  regulatory functions.
                                  ialuelCR operating cost) by
                                  ?005.




                                                            - 36 -

                                     Key Performance             Data Collection Strategy
                                          Indicators
)utput from each               Output indicators:                Voject reports:             from Outputs to Objective)
iomponent:
. Institutional capacity o f   1.1BOAD publicly issues at        Lating agency reports       Cegional policymakers,
IOAD improved (for risk        least CFAF 10 billion bond        Lating consultant report    egulators (Conseil regional,
ssessment in project           per year inthe regional           3xternal audit report       3CEAO and tax authorities)
inancing, capital market       capital market in 2004 and        'roject supervision report  md intermediaries make
lperation, liquidity           thereafter.                       YB (AFTES) reports          itatutory, regulatory or
nanagement, environment                                                                      :orporate reforms and capital
nd social impact assessment, 1.2 An efficient and                                            nvestments indispensable for
tc.).                          operational cash management                                   he establishment and
                               function set up by midterm                                    iustainable functioning o f the
                               review (which ensures a rate                                  :apital market.
                               o f return o f at least BOAD's
                               average cost o f resources).

                               1.3 In consultation with
                               ratings advisor, BOAD to
                               define operating and financial
                               ratios as well as loans
                               classification and
                               provisioning requirements in
                               line with internationally
                               acceptedbest practices by
                               mid-2005.
                                                                 iafeguard Documents
                               1.4 BOAD in compliance witk       3OAD environmental
                               the defined ratios by mid-term    upervision reports.
                               review.                           Yorld Bank environmental
                                                                 upervision reports.
                               1.5 BOAD has established an
                               effective safeguardpolicy
                               system and i s applying it
                               adequately to all its projects
                               by mid-term review (decrease
                               inWB assistance to BOAD in
                               environment and social
                               assessments o f project).

                               1.6 BOAD internal audit
                               covers the project cycle, IT
                               risk and the treasury function

                               1.7 BOAD can provide the
                               market with a yield curve (2
                               points o f maturity).

:.Conseil Rigional             2.1 Update IOSCO                  :onseil Rigional reports    4cceptance o f monetary
trengthened to carry out       assessment and implement          iCEAO reports               authorities o f the new
lecessaryreforms and           recommendations to align CR                                   ulesicodification and
ierform its statutory mandate. with international norms by                                   regulations.
                               nid-term review.


                                                            -37 -

                            2.2 Any additionalmarket
                           rules/or instructions codified
                            and disseminatedfor
                           publidmarket consultations
                            and submittedto appropriate
                            authoritiesby mid-term
                           review.

                           2.3 New rules andregulations
                           for OTC marketor a bond
                           section (order-driven) at
                           BRVM, including DC/BR
                            rules adoptedand submitted
                           to appropriate authoritiesby
                            2005.

                            2.4 New rules andregulations
                           for credit ratings in relation to
                           the removalor substantial
                            relaxationofbank guarantee
                            requirement adopted and
                            submittedto appropriate
                           authorities by 2005.

                            2.5 Disclosure requirement,
                            includingdisclosure of
                            incentiveschemes upgraded
                            andenforcedby 2005.

                            2.6. New prudential rules for
                           SGI's definedand enforcedby
                           CR by mid-termreview.

                            2.7 All brokers, BRVM and
                           DC/BR are inspectedby CR
                           staffat least once ayear from
                           2005 and thereafter.

                            2.8 CR respondto requests for
                            ipproval onpublic issues
                           within 4 weeks. Ifadditional
                            informationis required, CR to
                            -equestwithin 10 days of
                           eeceipt o f application.

3. WAEMU commission         3.1 WAEMU commission              VAEMU's Commission
strengthenedto make         submits to authorities for        :port
necessary fiscal reforms.  ipproval, acts and legislations 'raining evaluation(pre and
                            -ecommendedby studiesby           ost)
                            nid-term review.                  ICEAO report
                                                              'roject'ssupervisionreports
4. Infrastructurethat       4.1 Quality standards             lOAD reports                nfrastructuresproject that



                                                        - 38 -

 .ontributeto regional         including : environmental        'roject reports              romote regional integration
 ntegration are financed by    safeguards, fiduciary                                        :main governments' priority.
 he line o f credit and meet   requirements and a minimum                                   lOAD conducts thorough
 heir objectives.              o f 12% economic rate of                                     ppraisal and supervision of
                               returnare met inusingthe                                     nfrastructure projects.
                               line o f credit rule.

                               4.2 Roads projects meet their
                               objective to expand
                               Rehabilitate cross country
                               network by 650 km at
                               mid-term review and 1300 km
                               at project end.

5. Volume o f long-term        5.1 30% of IDA/MIGA/AFD          ?ommission Bancaire reports :ommercial banks are sound
commercial financing for       guarantees issued by midterm iecondee review                  ndremaincommitted to
infrastructure projects        review and facility fully used   ?xternalaudit                lroaden their client base and
increased and BOAD's           at project completion.           'roject report               CIextend M&LT financing.
capacity in guarantee
strengthened.                  5.2 Improved performance o f                                 'rivate sector i s well
                               BOAD staff assignedto the                                    nformed o f the guarantee.
                               guarantee facility in
                               identifying, marketing,
                               screening sub-projects and
                               assisting inpreliminary
                               processing o fprivate projects
                               without assistance from the
                               expert consultant (World
                               Bank Group Secondee) by
                               mid-termreview.

6. Effective coordination      6.1 The PCU and the steering     supervision reports
provided by the PCU and        committee members meet           :xternal audit
other measures to enhance      quarterly and perform their
capital market operation in    mandate as defined by TORS.
the region.


Project Components I           Inputs: (budget for each         'roject reports:             from Components to
Sub-components:                component)                                                    htputs)
The project comprises four     US$408.68 million                hpervision reports           idequate capacity and means
components :                                                    30ADreports                  o implement the project are
                                                                'eriodic implementation      ivailable.
                                                                eports
I.Institutionalassistance      U S 1 3 million                  {xtemal audit reports        rimely procurement in
                                                                'roject progress reports     iccordance with the Bank
 1. Establishment o f BOAD     US$3.12 million                  Jpdated Project procurement  guidelines.
bonds as de facto benchmarks                                    plan
and technical assistanceto                                                                   'ofinancing, grants and other
BOAD.                                                                                        lonors participation available
                                                                                             'or the TA component, the
 1.1 Implementation o f action                                                               ine o f credit.
plan for BOAD to be rated
(including technical


                                                           - 39 -

assistance by rating expert):
(i)Reinforcethelending&
fundingoperations capacity.
(ii) Upgrade cash
management skills.
(iii)Improve other
weaknesses identifiedby
credit-rating agencies.

1.2. Technical assistance to
introduce dealership function,

[i) Acquire issuance/auction
management skills as a
3enchmark issuer (e.g.
ximary dealership &
3hase-in o f two-way quotatior
ules).
:ii)Technical assistance to
ievelop an efficient cash
nanagement function
:"bullet" maturity bonds).


1.3. Study to review BOAD's
irganizational chart.

I.4.Assistance for splitting
3 0 A D into an investment
,ank and a core public sector
'Inancing fund (Fonds de
Ievkloppement et de
Zohesion).

I.5. Definitionandmarketing
Ifnew products for BOAD.

1.6. Study to determine
tlternative options to alleviate
he burden o f long term assets
md foreign currency
lenominated liabilities on
30ADbalance sheet and
mplementation of
ecommendation.

..7.Technical assistance to
levelop and implement a
)erformance based human
esources management
ystem.
                                 S$8.36 million
 .8. Capacity building


                                                  - 40 -

 /Training for BOAD staff

 2. Implementationby
 ConseilRPgional of action
 plan to develop capital
 market activities
 2.1. Introductiono f a
 quote-driventrading for
 bonds.
 2.2. Codificationo f the
 marketpractices.

 2.3. Shifting from merit
 systemto disclosuresystem
 (studyandimplementationof
recommendations):
 (i)Feasibility study for
introducinga credit rating
 systemandimplementationoj
recommendations.

(ii) Lifting of the bank
guarantee requirement(study
andimplementationof
recommendations).

(iii) Incentivefor better
disclosurefor new issues
(study andimplementationof
recommendations).
2.3. Upgrading/Definitiono f
the regulatory andsupervisorq
framework for market
participants:
(i).Definitionof prudential
norms for SGI's, DC/BR.
(ii).Draftingand
implementingan accounting
system for capitalmarket
intermediariesSGI's.
(iii)Definitionof codeof
conduct for markets
participants.

(iv). Amendment o fCR
statutes andoperational
guidelines.

(v) Amendment ofmarket
rulesto take into account
minorityshareholders rights.




                                 -41 -

2.4. Capacity
buildingiTraining for Consei,
R&gional staff.

2.5. Equipment for Conseil
Rkgional.
2.6. Technical assistance to
DCiBR and BRVM and SGI's

2.7. Training for market
participants.
2.8. Tax harmonization for
bond and dividend revenue
across the region by CR and
WAEMU Commission (study
and implementation o f
recommendations including
definition o f new tax regime).

3. Others
3.1, Upgrading o f investment
guidelines.

3.2. Study on banking, and
contractual saving regulations
with respectto capital market
activity.

3.3. Technical assistance to
improve coordination and
information sharing between
key regulatory in the regional
financial market (insurance
supervisory body, banking
commissionpension system
supervisory body).

11.Lineof Credit :              JS$163.2 million         'roject supervision reports  2ofinancing and matching
A US$89 million IDA line of                              lxternal audit reports       imdare available at
credit contributing in                                                                tppropriate time and low cost.
financing mediumand long
term projects shown to have
an impact on regional
integration.

111.IDAIMIGAIAFD                JS$227.3 million         :onsultant quarterly reports The private sector i s well
GuaranteeFacility                                        Lxternal audit reports       nformed on the project and
                                                                                       ts available resources.
IV. ProjectManagement           JS$3.2 million
and oversight:The project
will support a Project
Coordination Unit, four
component managers and a


                                                   - 42 -

steering committee consisting
3 f the project coordinator and
the project component
managers.

V. Unallocated                  JS$2.1million




                                                -43 -

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
               AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overview

The proposed Project supports key financial institutions in the WAEMU financial market to
improve their institutional capacity to provide increased access to medium- and long-term
commercial financing. It will therefore contribute to the West Africa Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU) countries' efforts to achieve sustainable regional economic growth and poverty
reduction through provision o f efficient, region-wide infrastructure services and greater financial
market integration. The activities under each component i s givenbelow.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$13.00 million
                     -
This component includes technical assistance to (i)BOAD, (ii) Conseil Rigional, and (iii)
                                                                      to
other key institutions such as UEMOA Commission, BCEAO, BRVM and market intermediaries
(SGI's). The technical assistance to BOAD is subdivided into three sub-components: (a)
Strengthening o f the institutional and technical capacities o f the BOAD in order to improve its
productivity; (b) strengthening o f the institutional and technical capacities o f BOAD in order to
become a reference rate bond issue in West Africa capital market; and (c) strengthening o f the
technical capacities o f BOAD in order to prepare the sub-projects to be covered under an FDA
Guarantee, an IDA Guarantee or a MIGA Guarantee.

TechnicalAssistance & InstitutionalStrengtheningProgram

This component will help to revise the regulatory framework for the regional capital market and
to strengthen the institutional capacity o f key institutions inthe market.

The main activities under this component are grouped into four main sub-components:

A.      BOAD Institutional Capacity Strengthening. Activities under this sub-component will
aim to: (i)position BOAD as a reference rate bond issuer in the regional capital market, and (ii)
prepare BOAD to diversify from traditional public finance and toward private investment
financing.

The strengthening o f BOAD's institutional capacity aims: (i)at establishing BOAD as a
credit-rated issuer to mobilize finds in the regional bond market at a low cost without currency
risk, (ii) reduce its dependence on borrowing from external donors including the World Bank,
         to
and (iii) establishing BOAD as a leader for the development o f the regional bond market by
supplyingreference rate.

The institutional capacity strengthening component includes the following activities:

a) Strengtheningof BOAD's institutional capacity to improve its productivity including:




                                                  - 44 -

       Improvement o f the capacity to mobilize resources, including assetAiability management.

       Improvement o f personnel management, particularly through the definition and
       implementation o f a human resources management system, a training program for
       managers and support staff in such areas as financial management, data processing, risk
       analysis, bank management, financial market management, business law, stock market
       operations, project monitoring and evaluation, analytical accounting, human resource
       management, insurance, guarantees, environmental management, social impacts, etc.;
       BOAD prepared a detailed program for human resource enhancement, including the
       training modules, costs and the implementation calendar; this program was submitted to
       the Bank and discussed and agreed on duringappraisal.
       Implementation o f recommendations emerging from studies o f BOAD's institutional and
       financial strengthening, especially technical support for: (i)the separation between
       commercial and non-commercial financing activities; (ii)the revamping o f BOAD's
       organizational chart; and (iii)
                                     improvement o f financial transparency, and for controlling
       operating costs.
       Study to determine alternative options to alleviate the burden o f long term assets and
       foreign currency denominated liabilities (including securitization o f loans) on BOAD
       balance sheet and implementation of recommendations thereof.

       Improvement o f the current organization through the introduction o f a more efficient cost
       accounting system and o f a more elaborate analytical accounting system, which would
       make it possible to break down results by cost centers, and to set up financial policies that
       are more transparent and better suited to each type o f activity. The improved accounting
       system would make it possible to analyze costs and benefits associated with each type o f
       activity, to set performance indicators and to carry out a proper evaluation o f the
       resources mobilized.
       Strengthening o f the cash management function, including the management o f foreign
       currency accounts.
       Implementation and monitoring o f implementation o f the Environmental and Social
       Management Framework.
       Diversification o f BOAD activities by the identification o f new financial products and
       sources o f revenue.

       Strengthening capacity inlending and financing operations, includingproject appraisal and
       supervision.

b) Strengthening BOAD as a reference rate bond issuer in the WAEMU capital market will
include thefollowing activities:

   0   Implementation o f the action plan drafted by the rating consultant during appraisal (a
       rating consultant prepared a baseline credit rating for BOAD). The institutional capacity
       building program o f BOAD was designed on the basis o f rating reports prepared by the
       rating consultant. The program includes: (i)a critical review o f internal procedures to



                                             -45-

       determine their comprehensiveness, enforcement, degree o f formalization, particularly
       concerning the decision-making process, the monitoring o f risks, and the security o f hnd
       movements; (ii)   consolidation o f policies and strengthening o f a structure and tools for
       asset/liability management and financial risk management, in anticipation o f exchange rate
       fluctuations; (iii)strengthening o f the structure for monitoring counterpart risks, which is
       important as the proportion o f private risk in BOAD's portfolio i s increasing; (iv)
       enhancement o f issuance/auction management skills as a benchmark issuer (e.g. primary
       dealership and phase-in o f two-way quotation rules); (v) cash management; and (vi) design
       and proposal to CR and BCEAO o f a scheme that will allow dealers to engage inrepos o f
       BOADbonds with non-financial corporations.
       Technical assistance to monitor and improve BOAD rating. The rating consultant and
       other specialist consultants will regularly monitor the financial condition o f BOAD:
       BOAD will undergo credit rating reviews every year and the recommendations resulting
       from the reviews will be incorporated inaction plans to be supported under the project.

c) Strengthening of BOADprojectfinance and risk mitigation techniques, which will include:

   0   Technical assistance to support BOAD in preparing the sub-projects to be covered under
       the guarantee facility. This assistance would consist o f the following: (i)
                                                                                 training to BOAD
       staff on riskmitigationtechniques and products leveraging, and (ii)   technical assistance for
       analysis o f specific sub-projects by short-term consultants. Training from IDA, MIGA and
       AFD, as appropriate would focus on familiarizing BOAD staff with the various guarantee
       instruments, the guidelines for their use and the Guarantee Facility Guidebook. This initial
       training will be complemented by a seminar to be conducted inLomC, Togo to present the
       facility to BOAD staff and government staff involved, and train relevant BOAD staff on
       operational issues, including environmental and social safeguard issues.

   0   The Bank group plans to provide considerable support to BOAD during implementation.
       To this end, a training program for the BOAD operational staff at IDNMIGA
       headquarters will be put in place. The first training will take place before effectiveness.
       The Project will provide a guarantee expert to BOAD (either by seconding a staff member
       or recruiting a consultant) to provide long-term support to be financed with grant from
       AFD. The selection of the expert will be done according to a competitive biddingprocess.
       The expert will provide support to BOADinmarketing efforts, training, identification, and
       assisting the BaddMIGNAFD intheir appraisal and supervision o f sub-projects. Through
       ongoing training provided by the expert, possibly for a period o f up to two years, and
       based on the experience gained by the successhl closing o f three to five transactions,
       BOAD staff will gain some familiarity and competence inthe preparation and appraisal of
       sub-projects. If considered satisfactory by IDA, MIGA and AFD, BOAD could be given
       increasingresponsibility inassisting inthe appraisal o f sub-projects.

   0   All the activities related to the BOAD Institutional Capacity Strengthening will be
       financed under the proposed IDA Credit and a partly with grant from AFD.

B.     The institutionalstrengthening of Conseil Rkgional includes consultancy services and


                                                - 46 -

technical assistanceto CR as follows:

       0    Upgrading o f the regulatory framework for the capital market (equity and bonds) and
            compilation and publication o f market rules and practices taking into account minority
            shareholders rights; introduction o f the practice o f promoting capital market activities
            to help develop a financial and market culture inthe region.

       0    Introduction by CR o f a credit rating system for companies participating inthe market;
            shift from a merit systemto disclosure system ofmarket participants and incentives for
            better disclosure for new bond issues.

       0    Set up a regulatory framework for quote-driven trading for bonds, and introduce an
            OTC to lower the securities trading cost inthe regional capital market.

       0    Review o f the Conseil Rigional's statutes and intemal regulations.

       0    Defininga code of conduct for CR and market intermediaries.

       0    Defining a regulatory and supervisory framework, including prudential rules for
            market participants (SGI's, DC, BR).

       0    Assist CR in drafting and implementing an accounting plan for capital market
            intermediaries SGI's (Societi de Gestion et dllntermediation).

       0    Update o f the IOSCO assessment and implementation o f recommendations to align
            regulatory practices with intemational norms.

       0    Development o f a website to publicize regulations to promote transparency among
            market players.

       0    BuildCR's institutional capacity through professional training programs for its staff

All the activities relatedto the Conseil Regional Institutional Strengtheningwill be financed under
the proposedgrants from the French Ministry o f Foreign Affairs, French Development Agency
and Canadian Intemational Development Agency.


C.      The institutionalstrengtheningof other key institutions(BCEAO, BRVM, WAEMU
Commission and market participants). The development o f the regional capital market with
BOAD as a leading debt securities provider to the market and a reference rate bond issuer will
need some policy actions by other regional institutions such as the BCEAO, the BRVM, and the
WAEMU Commission. Important activities are :
1.      Training and seminar on capital market activities. Such an assistance will include
consultancy services to enable BCEAO and other market participants to work effectively and
efficiently with the CR to :

            Organize professional training programs for the Conseil Rigional's staff and for
            member governments' personnel working on capital market activities. This will include
            the organizationby BCEAO, at Centre de Formation et d'Etudes Bancaires (COFEB)
            in Dakar, at least once a year during the next five years, of a regional seminar on



                                                - 47 -

            different aspects o f capital market activities so as to promote the stock market culture
            inthe WAEMU zone. The seminar will be targeted to BCEAO personnel working on
            these issues, and this personnel will in tum be responsible for organizing the seminar
            for all other key institutions, including governments, Conseil Rigional, brokerage
            houses, BRVM, BOAD, commercial banks, insurance companies, pension funds
            leasing companies and the general public.

       0    Organize, through the existing training facilities, training seminars for market
            participants intechniques relevant to the capital market.

       0    Educate and encourage governments to use capital markets to meet their financing
            needs.

       0    Inaddition, the project will finance feasibility studies and provide technical assistance
            aimed at assessingthe operational model o f the stock exchange to determine ways for
            further restructuring along with the enhancement o f the institutional capacity and the
            regulatory framework covering the stock market.

2.      Technical assistance to the BRVM will enable the regional stock exchange to work
effectively with the CR to set a regulatory framework for a quote-driven trading for bonds.

3.      Assistance to the WAEMU Commission will consist o f consultancy services to harmonize
the tax regimes across the region for medium-term bonds and other financial or capital market
instruments.

All the activities related to the    Institutional Strengthening o f other key institutions will be
financed  under the proposed grants from the French Ministry o f Foreign Affairs, French
Development Agency and CanadianInternational Development Agency.


Project Component 2 US$89.00 million
                     -

Line of credit Component

One o f the key components o f the project is an IDA line o f credit inan amount o f US$89 million
equivalent, The line o f credit will be used to promote economic integration among WAEMU
countries by providing the needed long-term resources to fknd selected "integrating and
environmentally sound" public projects. The line o f credit will finance only the foreign currency
portion o f those projects with a high impact on regional integration. Project selection and
appraisal criteria will be the same as those used by the World Bank. Given WAEMU's current
financial policy under which projects are financed essentially out o f financial market resources
commercially available in the WAEMU region, the proposed IDA funding will be allocated
primarily to the public sector components o f selected investment projects that will require some
preferential andor long-term financing. The line o f credit i s expected to cover approximately 62
percent o f BOAD's lending program for a 5-year period up to mid-2009. The total amount o f
BOADlendingprogram for the next five years is estimated at US$257 million. The credit will be
usedto co-finance projects which foster regional integration.



                                                - 48 -

This component is designed to be complementary to the component dealing with capital market
strengthening, to the extent that it provides the region through BOAD, with adequate resources
to pursue the infrastructure financing program in support o f regional integration, whereas the
Technical Assistance component is intended to foster the sustainability o f key institutions in the
financial market, particularly by enhancing their capacity to regulate and promote the market to
provide economies with long term resources.

The main activity included in this component i s the financing o f medium- and long-term projects
that have an integrative nature and a highrate o f economic return. The list o f projects identified
to date has been provided by BOAD to the Bank and i s in project files. The Bank and BOAD
agreed that this list i s not exhaustive and will be continually updated depending on national and
sub-regional priorities. For an accurate review o f the various projects, a thorough analysis will be
conducted by BOAD. This level of detail i s necessary for various reasons: (a) it provides a basis
for decision-making during project appraisal; (b) it ensures that the sub-projects fit inwith project
objectives; (c) it helps for comprehension and the preparation o f detailed implementation plans;
(d) it facilitates project appraisal and implementation; and (e) it facilitates coordination with
on-going projects financed by other donors. The list was presented mainly on the basis o f requests
put forth by the governments o f WAEMU member countries. The Bank discussed project
selection criteria to ensure that the BOAD and the World Bank have the same criteria and
approaches to the choice o f highway investmentprojects. It was agreed that the projects must be
compatible with (i)   WAEMU's national and regional development strategies, and (ii) national
                                                                                         the
program o f priority highway investments.

The coordination o f investments in trans-border areas between two countries o f the region must
be programmed insuch a way as to ensure the synergy o f the investments.The projects should be
subject to an economic and social evaluation to determine the project eligibility under the line o f
credit. The decision mustbe based on proven economic return or a cost-effectiveness analysis.

To be eligible, projects must (i)contribute to the creation o f a unified regional financial market,
(ii) aregionalorintegratingdimension, and(iii)tobeundertakenbyfinancially credible
     have
entities and/or in a financially credible manner. For example, projects aiming at reducing gaps in
highways construction among WAEMU member countries would be eligible for financing under
the line o fcredit.

The line of credit will be financed under the proposed IDA Credit. Twelve percent o f the
estimated road projects costs will be financed through Governments contributions.

Project Component 3 US$ 227.25 million
                      -

Basic infrastructure investment needs in the UEMOA countries are estimated at about US$2
billion over the next few years. Despite the progress made in WAEMU countries over the last few
years, the region i s still perceivedby the private sector as being "high riskhigh transaction costs."
Events such as the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the collapse o f
Enron, the financial crisis in Argentina and its contagion effect on other countries, etc. have
heightened the private sector's aversion to risk in emerging markets worldwide. A number o f
strategic investors have reexamined their portfolios for the purpose o f reducing the risk associated


                                                 - 49 -

with emerging markets in order to assuage the anxiety o f shareholders. The political situation in
Cate d'Ivoire has also led to increased risk perception by private investors. These negative
perceptions concerning emerging markets in general and the UEMOA region, per se has resulted
in reduced private capital flows, particularly by purchasers of state-owned enterprises and
sponsors o f infrastructure projects. Attracting financing for commercially viable infrastructure
projects inthe absence risk mitigationinstrumentshas become much difficult.

Inthis context, riskreductioninstruments such as the IDA,MIGA andAFD guarantees canplay a
critical role in increasing the attractiveness o f certain investments that are exposed to political
risks and that are dependent upon the government performance or payment obligations toward
these projects. The Bank Group has been supporting the development o f large private projects,
such as the Azito Power Project in CBte d'Ivoire (an IDA Guarantee was approved by the Board
in 1998).However, recent experience ofthe World Bank Group indicates that most infrastructure
projects in the UEMOA countries that are commercially viable are likely to be relatively small i s
size and costs. The primary objective o f the Guarantee Facility i s therefore to help stimulate
private investment in small and medium infrastructure and privatization projects by mitigating the
critical risks o f government performance, which currently constrain private sector's interest in
these countries. In so doing, the facility will also attempt to speed up the approval processes
thereby reducing the cost o f access to these instrumentsfor relatively small projects.

The use o f BOAD, as a well positioned intermediary inthe region, would help by accelerating the
identification and processing o f such projects. BOAD's strong relationships with the World Bank
Group since its inception, its experience in project preparation and evaluation, and its physical
presence in each o f the eight WAEMU countries makes BOAD well suited to market risk
mitigation instrumentsto the private investors, commercial lenders and the host governments. In
addition, as a regional development bank, BOAD i s generally expected to play a key role in
mobilizing financing for investments, and to support deepening o f financial markets inthe region.

The Guarantee Facility is structured in a manner that would allow BOAD to diversify from its
traditional focus on the financing of public projects to private investments, and to expand its range
o f services beyond the public sector and towards the mobilization o f private sector financing for
infrastructure projects. Through the institutional capacity building component o f the Project, as
well as BOAD's involvement inthe Guarantee Facility, its staff would receive hands-ontechnical
assistance and training to structure and review private projects, thereby increasing the institutional
capacity o f BOAD. In time, this would allow BOAD to help support private infrastructure
projects, and provide a wider range o f products and financing options than currently available in
the region. Inaddition, the protection provided by the Guarantee Facility will attract investors to
benefit from BOAD's financial services. Conversely, BOAD's proximity to markets will allow
AFD, IDA and MIGA to expandtheir roles inthis priority area o fWest Africa.

(Please See Annex 11 for more details on the IDA, MIGA and AFD Guarantee Facility)




                                                - 50 -

Project Component 4 US$3.20 million
                     -

ProjectImplementation
This component will support the project management consisting o f a team placed within BOAD
and component managers placed in each of project beneficiaries. Overall project management
would be handled by a coordinator working full time on the implementation o f various activities.
Adequate staff would be assigned to specific functions, such as financial management and
accounting, procurement, environmental and social impact assessment, project supervision and
monitoring, guarantees and risk insurance. A Steering Committee will provide guidance in the
project implementation. The key personnel assigned to these fimctions would be trained and
would receive adequate support to enable them to assume full responsibility for those functions
duringproject implementation and within the institution even after the project's completion. The
operating expenses o f the project management unit will be covered by the credit, with the
exception o f logistical expenses (Le., office, office equipment, electricity and water) which will be
borne by BOAD. This component will also finance the implementation o f activities aimed at the
efficient coordination o f capital market-oriented actions by monetary authorities, WAEMU'
Commission, CR, BCEAO and BOAD. This includes: (i)organization of technical meetings (
Conseil Rigional, BCEAO, WAEMU Commission, and Ministries o f Finance) on the roles and
specific tasks to be accomplished with a view to developing the financial market; (ii)       technical
support to allow for coordination between the institutional reforms envisaged at BOAD and in
other development organizations inthe sub-region, particularly the ECOWAS Development Fund
and the Fonds d'Aide a l'lntigration Rigionale (FAIR), the insurance and pension systems
regulatory bodies at the Franc zone level; and (iii)   defining a mechanism to ensure coordination
between key institutions in WAEMU and in the Franc zone (the regional Banking Commission,
BCEAO, CR, the Insurance supervisory committee and the Pension system supervisory body).
Under this component, activities to be financed will be the provision o f advisory services and
training to the Project Implementation Unit and the Steering Committee, and the carrying out o f
audits. The activities under this component will be financed under the proposed IDA Credit.




                                                 -51 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                   AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



 A. Institutional assistance                                                                           4.93                    8.05                    12.98
 B.Line of credit                                                                                     62.00                101.15                   163.15
 C. Guarantee Facility (IDNMIGA and AFD)                                                                                   227.25                   227.25
 D.Project coordination                                                                                 1.22                   1.98                     3.20
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                                  68.15                338.43                   406.58

IPhysical Contingencies                                                                                0.40                    0.65                     1.05
 Price Contingencies                                                                                   0.40                    0.65                     1.05
                                          Total Project Costs'                                        68.95         I      339.73                   408.68
                                   Total Financing Required                                           68.95         I      339.73                   408.68

   i
    Identifiablc taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and thc total project cost, net o f taxes, is 408.69 (USSm). Thereforc, the project cost sharing ratio is 23.59% o f
   total projcct cost nct of taxes.




                                                                      -  52 -

             Annex 4: Financial Analysis of the West African Development Bank (BOAD)
                 AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

BOAD i s a sound and well-managed financial institution. It has a proven track record as a
development finance institution and has, in recent years, diversified its activities and extended its
lending to the private sector. BOAD, nevertheless, faces a number o f challenges and risks that it must
overcome if it i s to remain a viable source o f development finance in the region. BOAD's
management has identifiedthese risks and has designed action plan to mitigate them.

Background

Banque Ouest Africaine de Diveloppement (BOAD) is the development bank owned by the eight
countries o f the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). It was established by the
Treaty o f November 4, 1973 which was signed by six countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, CBte d'Ivoire,
Niger, Senegal and Togo). These were joined later by three European countries (Germany, Belgium,
and France), three regional financial institutions (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de E 'Ouest,
African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank) and two additional West African
countries (Mali and Guinea-Bissau). BOAD's capital i s held principally by the WAEMU member
States and BCEAO (48.13 and 48.12 percent respectively) and 3.75 percent by France, Germany,
Belgium, the African Development Bank, and the European InvestmentBank. As o f December 2002,
the subscribed capital of CFAF 336.8 billion was structured as follows:

        Table 1 :Structure of BOAD's capital in 1998-2002(CFA million)




        Source: BOAD

The bank's objective is to promote development o f the member countries and regional integration. Its
mandate includes: (i)mobilizing intemal and external resources; (ii)   financing investments by taking
equity investments in enterprises as well as lending, endorsing, guaranteeing, and providing interest
rate rebates; (iii)conducting feasibility studies o f development projects and participating in the
creation and the functioning o f institutions responsible for the implementation o f these projects; and
(iv) providingtechnical assistance to member countries. The World Bank has had a close relationship
with BOAD since its establishment and has provided it considerable technical assistance, particularly
in its start-up years, and three lines of credit. BOAD carried out its obligations under the lines of
credit satisfactorily.




                                                     - 53 -

1. Organization and Management
I.I.Management

The bank's senior and middle management is competent and experienced. Management and staff are
respected inthe member countries and inthe international community. Many have beenwith the bank
since its inception in 1973. Initial training and interactions with the private sector and the international
lending community have allowed the institution to maintain a good pool of skills and keep up with
trends in international financial markets. Staff has increased from 189 in 2000 (86 professional staff
and 103 assistants) to 216 in2002, after remaining almost unchanged from 1997 to 2000.`''

The goals assigned to the Human Resources Division seem to be clear and relevant for the
development strategy o f the bank. However, the number o f staff may not be sufficient in certain areas
to adequately handle the opening o f additional branches inmember countries, the development o f new
activities and the delivery o f high level supervision o f existing projects. Inaddition, a careful analysis
o f the structure o f the staff shows the aging o f existing personnel and a growing need for younger
staff recruitment and training to ensure sustainable development o f the bank's activitiesii1.

BOAD's Board o f Directors i s chaired by the President, and consists o f two representatives o f each
member country, the Governor o f the BCEAO and one representative o f each o f the institutional
shareholders. Besides the Board o f Directors which meets quarterly, BOAD has the following
committees which meet on a periodic basis: (i)    the Presidential Committee which meets at least once a
month and consists o f the President, the Vice President, the Advisors to the President and senior
management; its role i s to define the strategic orientation o f the bank and to examine and adopt the
annual financial forecasts and budget before their submission to the Board for approval; (ii) credit
                                                                                                  the
committee which evaluates and approves projects to be financed; it consists o f the Special Adviser to
the President and all the bank's Directors (excluding the Director of Internal Control and Audit); and
(iii)the informationtechnology committee whose role isto set upandimplementthe information
strategy; it consists o f the Director o f the General Administration Department, advisors to the
President and other senior management.

The bank's management team is headed by a President and assisted by a Vice-president. The
organizational structure has included the following departments since April 2000 : (i)the Department
o f Operational Assessment and Internal Audit and six representative offices reporting directly to the
Presidency and the Vice Presidency; (ii)      the Department o f General Administration which has the
mandate o f supporting the operational activities o f BOAD. It includes the Division o f Human
Resources and the Division o f General Administration; (iii)     the Department o f Project Financing and
Studies, which i s the main operational department (it consists o f 53 staff including 19 assistants and
includes the Division o f Studies and Cooperation, the Division o f Rural Development and
Infrastructure and the Division o f Financial Institutions and Industries); and (iv) the Department of
Finance and Accounting performs both operational activities (such as mobilizing h d s for project
financing and cash management) and supporting activities, including accounting and follow-up o f
budgetary operations and implementation. It is divided into two divisions: (a) the Division o f Finance
and Treasury, and (b) the Division o f Accounting and Budget. This department has a professional
staff o f 12 people. This number appears to be insufficient to handle adequately the mandate o f this



                                                     - 5 4 -

department.

The management structure appears to be in general appropriate. However, there are a number o f
issues o f organization and management which need to be addressed in order to strengthen the
institution. These include improved human resources management, improvements in internal auditing,
accounting, information systems, procedures, risk management, etc. In addition, a careful analysis o f
the age structure o f the staff shows the aging o f existing personnel and a growing need for younger
staff recruitment and training to ensure sustainable development o f the bank's activities. Of particular
concern i s the retirement of around 40 percent o f the current professional staff between 2006 and
2009. Careful planning o f staff needs and hiringo f younger staff are required in order to address this
risk. BOAD has already undertaken diagnostic studies in a number of these areas and has begun to
implement required reforms. A human resource development plan is being developed. The main
features o f the plan are to make the staff more responsible and accountable, with periodic
performance assessments, and appropriate training. Inaddition, the plan includes a program for staff
expansion which takes into account the skills mix requiredand the needto bring inyounger staff. The
institutional support component o f the proposed project will provide technical assistance in
implementingthe necessary reforms.

1.2.Procedures

Even though BOAD has updated procedures over the years, M e r strengthening is required
particularly in the areas o f environment, social impact, internal audit, project supervision and human
resource planningand skills training.

1.3. Internal audit and Information system

The accounting system is similar to the one used by commercial banks and an internal chart of
accounts has been adopted. A cost accounting system allowing the breakdown o f lending activities by
sector i s being put in place. The bank has adopted a new information system which i s adequate and
expected to be fully operational by 2005.

The bank's growth requires strengtheningo f the internal auditing function both in terms o f quality
and number o f auditors to ensure the timely delivery o f reliable reports by the internal auditors and
increased in capacity to cover the project cycle and the treasury functions which are not currently
covered. The bank relies on external consultants for ad-hoc auditing requirements. BOAD's external
audits are inline with international standards.

1.4. Supervision and Auditing

BOAD's Board o f Directors has assigned to BCEAO, the main shareholder, the responsibility o f
inspecting the bank on an annual basis. A review o f two BCEAO supervision reports o f BOAD
revealed that the work done i s much more o f an inspection instead o f being on-site supervision
covering all areas that would be covered by on-site supervision by bank examiners. BOAD generally
meets key prudential ratios.




                                                    - 55 -

As BOAD is not subject to the region's banking law and prudential supervision, we further
recommends that BOAD's board adopt clearly defined prudential norms that the institution has to
observe. To begin, BOAD should consider having a handbook o f its prudential norms which exist in
various documents and departments within the banks and upgrade the norms to be consistent with
international standard. It then has to define a prudential framework adopted and made mandatory by
its board o f directors. In addition, the bank's growth requires strengthening o f the internal auditing
fbnction both in term o f quality and number o f auditors in order to ensure the timely delivery o f
reliable reports by the internal auditors and increased in capacity to cover the project cycle and the
treasury functions which are not fully covered for the time being. The bank relies on external
consultants for ad-hoc auditing requirements. It i s important to build a strong internal capacity to
ensure consistency and efficient follow-up.

2. Performance

The following analysis i s based on annual reports for FY2002, Emst & Young report's (January
200l),  "Perspectives Financidres Actualisies (2002)" and data collected from BOAD Accounting
and Budget Division. Some selected balance sheet items have been readjusted to reflect their real
value (inparticular, the callable capital has beensubtracted from the net worth).

2.I.Activities

Uses of funds

BOAD had about CFAF 317 billion (about US$4SS million equivalent, excluding the callable capital)
in total assets as of December 31, 2002. Net loans and advances added to CFAF 235 billion,
representing75 percent o f total assets.
                                       Table 2: Sources and Uses of Funds




    Source :BOAD`sAnnual Report (2002) and "Perspectives Financidres Actualisies ''




                                                     - 56 -

BOAD is growing slowly. Over the four years ending December 2002, total assets grew 1.9 percent
per annum and net loans increased by 12percent. As inflation averaged 3 percent per annum over that
period, total assets declined in real terms and total loans grew by only 9 percent. BOAD's uses o f
hnds increased from CFAF 193 billion in 1998 to CFAF 276 billion in 2002. The increase is due to
additional long-term project financing. The share o f private sector in total portfolio increased to 49
percent in2002.

Country allocation o f credit appears to be fairly diversified given the structure o f the GDP in the
region with credit to countries ranging between 1 to 23 percent o f the total loans portfolio as o f
December 2002. However, a closer look at the sectoral exposure indicates that credit to construction,
energy and water represented 50 percent o f the total.

                           Table 3 :Structure of BOAD portfolio by country and sector
    Economic Sector




    Source :BOAD

Portfolio quality

BOAD portfolio is o f good quality with non-performing loans representing4 percent as reported by
an independent consultant, Price WaterHouse Finance (France) hired to review the bank's portfolio.
While the ratio i s low for the overall portfolio, it i s relatively higher (8 percent in December 2002) for
private sector loans which account for all non-performing loans.

Loan performance i s under pressure given the social and political situation in CBte d'Ivoire and its
spillover effects on neighboring countries such as Burkina Faso and Mali. Thirteen projects in these
countries could be considered affected by the socio-political situation in CBte d'Ivoire. As of
December 31, 2002, six projects (CIPREL, SICOR, Loteny Telecom, LCCI, AERIA, and
Development du Nord-Est) are reported to have overdue payments on outstanding loans amounting
to CFAF 14,901 million (equivalent to US$23 million). The bank could be subject to much more
significant pressures if the decline in economic activity were to continue. It is clear that BOAD
operates in a high-risk environment and its public sector borrowers are vulnerable. Given this
environment, BOAD i s considering adjusting current provisioning policy which considers government
loans to be risk-free. This i s particularly important given BOAD's participation inthe HIPC initiative.
BOADhas already begunto reviewits loanclassification and provisioning criteria. The new approach
carried out by a specialized unit (Unit6 de Gestion des Risques, UGR) is based on a dynamic risk


                                                        - 57 -

management and rating system. Inan initialphase, the UGRhas rated projects after the loan decisions
have already been made. UGR i s expected to rate projects before loan decisions are made in the
future so that it can be a consideration in lendingdecisions. UGRwill also update the rating of the 13
projects financed inconflict areas in CBte d'Ivoire, Mali and Burkina Faso and appropriate provisions
made for loans extended to these projects. Should these projects be provided for the total outstanding
amount, which is unlikely, the gross non-performing loans would amount to CFAF 29 billion, or 12
percent o f total portfolio, which would be still acceptable for a development finance institution.

Provisions are constituted at the end o f each financial year on a case-by-case basis at the end o f each
financial year. Provisioning o f loans i s based on the following criteria: (i) loans to/or guaranteed by
member states are consideredrisk-free; (ii) a loaninarrears to be considered "non performing" all
                                                for
legal channels for collection must be exhausted up to the stage o f realizing collateral; and (iii)
occurrence o f an event o f default resulting in acceleration i s also considered as a criteria for loan
classification. The institutional support component o f the project will provide technical assistance in
implementingthe necessary reforms.

Sources of funds

BOAD's resources increased by five percent in 2002 due to bonds issued in the regional financial
market and the allocation o f the CFAF 2 billion net profit earned in2001 to the net worth o f the bank
(foreign-currency denominated debt has remained stable at around CFAF 93 billion in 2001 and
2002). The bank's overall debt has increased from 1998 to 2002.

                           Table 4: Structure of BOAD's debt between 1998 and 2002




Source :BOAD (2002) and Ernst & Young (2001)


BOAD is highly leveraged in foreign currency and this position is unhedged. The overall leverage
ratio (debt to callable capital) stood at 66 percent as o f December 2002, compared to 60 and 63
percent respectively in 2000 and 2001. Foreign currency debt averaged 55 percent o f its total debt
between 1998 and 2002. The highfluctuation in foreign exchange income and expenses between 200 1
and 2002 raises serious concern about BOAD's exchange rate risk exposure and management. This
situation i s due to foreign exchange regulations in the WAEMU's countries which do not allow
residents to hold foreign currency denominated assets. At the same time the bank is allowed to
borrow in foreign currency.
The situation is of concern despite improvements since 1999 with the issuance o f bonds in the
regional financial market. BOAD i s conscious o f the risk and has started taking corrective actions to


                                                     - 5a -

address the issue. Since 1996 BOAD, has borrowed primarily in CFAF and Euro. Inaddition, BOAD
i s currently negotiating the swap o f a loan from the OPEC fimd from floating dollar rate to fixed Euro
rate. The bank has also set up a fbnd to cover foreign exchange risk using: (i)    a portion of the net
interest margin, (ii)  exchange rate gains, and (iii)a special allowance by member countries. These
actions are not sufficient to ensure the long term sustainability o f BOAD. The WAEMU Council of
Ministers has now allowed BOADto (i) foreign currency denominated accounts, and (ii)
                                           open                                                  include
an indexation clause in loan agreements to transfer exchange risk to borrowing countries. These
decisions allow BOAD to hedge itself against foreign exchange exposures. Further to this important
policy shift, capacity needs to be built within BOAD's treasury department to cope with the changes
especially foreign currency denominated investments, cash management and trading system.
BOAD has already experienced a 17.6 CFAF billion loss after the CFAF devaluation in 1994.These
losses were not realized, but capitalized as a non-interest bearing obligation of member states to be
repaid over a period of up to 40 years. To date, each member state has paid its share. As o f December
2002, roughly 7 CFAF billion had beenpaid, and CFAF 10 billion will be realized as loan maturities
fall due.

2.2. Financial structure

                               Table 5: BOADfinancialstructure(CFA million)




     Source :BOAD, various annual reports

BOAD appears to be adequately capitalized with tangible net worth (excluding callable and unpaid
capital) representing 30 percent o f total assets in 2002. On a risk weighed basis, BOAD's estimated
Cooke ratioE o f 22 percent in 2002 i s above the international required level o f 8 percent. The bank
had a positive liquidity position o f around CFAF 40 billion in 2002 or 13 percent o f total assets,
placed as deposits with BCEAO and as interbank loans or deposit with financial institutions.

2.3. Borrowing capacity

The bank's borrowing capacity is based on its callable capital and its net worth, and its debt should



                                                     - 59 -

not at any time exceed 100percent o f this callable capital (section 31o f its statutes) or 300 percent o f
its net worth. The bank's leverage ratio o f 66 percent in 2002 i s below the 100 percent ceiling
prescribed by the bank's articles. Inaddition, inspite o f having increased through the period, the ratio
o f debt to net worth remains less than the ceiling of 300 percent established by its rules. However,
given the weak financial condition o f many o f BOAD's shareholders, it i s not prudent to base the
bank's borrowing capacity on the total o f callable capital o f the WAEMU member states as some o f
the governments might not be able to meet their obligations incase capital was to be called. This risk
i s mitigated by the fact that 50 percent o f the callable capital i s held by BCEAO, ADB and Belgium
and that BCEAO i s paying on behalf o f member states their share o f callable capital if deemed
necessary by using dividends due to central Governments and fees on money transfers collected on
behalfmember countries.

Different scenarios on BOAD's borrowing capacity are considered in the table below. The most
realistic one i s to base the borrowing capacity on the bank's net worth, the callable capital held by
BCEAO, ADB, Belgium and a portion o f callable capital owned by regional member countries. Here,
the member countries callable capital has been weighed 25 percent (different scenarios are presented
inthe table below). Undersuch an assumption, andtaking into account the envisagedcredit under the
proposed project and the required amount o f bonds to be issued to improve BOAD's role as
benchmark issuer in the regional financial market, BOAD could adequately borrow from the World
Bank without any guarantee from member countries. However, it would need an increase in callable
capital to have sufficient headroom to increase and diversify its activities by the third year (2006) o f
project implementation. BOAD intends to make every effort to bringnon regional shareholders with
AAA credit rating inthe capital structure. This situation couldbe exacerbated by the growing bank's
activities infinancing the private sector and inparticipating inthe corporate equity market.




                                                     - 60 -

                                    Table 6: BOAD borrowing capacity

I                               I   2002     I 2003  I 2004   I 2005  I  2006  I  2007  I 2008  I




   Source :BOAD and staff estimates

The bank's cash management function has recently changed. Before 2000, liquidity requirements
consisted of having 12 months of net disbursements and debt service in cash held at BCEAO as
required by the institution's policies. This minimum required liquidity level has been reduced to 9
months of its plannednet disbursements and debt service. Liquidity is placed in minimumrisk assets
(two-third of the total) and on deposit at BCEAO (one-third of the total). The table below
summarizes liquidity positionand cash managementin2000.




                                                   -61 -

                                       Dec-00    Interest rate   Dec-01   Interest rate  Dec-02   Interest rate
                                                      Yo                       %                       %
      Time deuosit                      3.000         6          4.140         6          2.151        6
      Certificate of deposit             200          6           100          6
      Bonds                             1,200         8          1,200         7          600          8
      Commercial paper                  1,125         8
      Interbank loans                  13,450         7          19,950        7         12,161        6
      T-Bills                           9,462         7          10,000        7         5,000         7

     Source :BOAD

2.4. Profitability

Profitability has been improving over the last three years with net profits, amounting to CFAF 2.9
billion in 2002 from a lower 1.5 billion in 2000. However, despite the high level o f lending, the bank
was not very profitable during 2002 earning a net profit o f 0.5 percent on average assets and 3
percent on ending equity. Although the bank overhead costs were low (less than 1 percent o f total
assets), this was more than offset by an extremely low net interest income o f 2 percent o f total assets.
Spreads were very low with a spread on lendingo f roughly 5 percent and an overall spread on interest
bearing assets and liabilities o f 3 percent. BOAD needs to revise its pricing policies, particularly as
regards its private sector activities, to achieve a more sustainable return. Present policies, which
target a return on capital on private sector lending equal to the cost o f resources (roughly 5 percent
as o f 2002), effectively subsidize the private sector at the expense o f BOAD's public shareholders. It
i s also recommended that BOAD continue its efforts to diversify its sources o f revenue, with
increased emphasis on fee-generating products and services to increase its profitability and its capital
base. However, the organizational and operational efficiency o f BOAD has clearly improved inrecent
years (table below). Personnel expenses in percentage o f total assets have increased far less rapidly
than the bank's revenues. Thus, the ratio o f overhead to net interest income decreased from 68
percent in 1999 to 49 percent in2002.

BOAD's main activity remains concessional lending to the public sector. Unlike other multilateral
development banks, B O A D does not have a "soft-loan window" funded by grants. Some 50 percent
o f its share capital i s heldby poor, highly indebted countries and all o f its public sector borrowers are
constrained by prohibitions on non-concessional borrowings. Given the present low interest rate
environment, BOAD is unable to fully cover its intermediation costs on its lendingto the public sector
from its interest revenue without using a subsidy fund made available for public sector lending.
BOAD's viability as a source of public sector development finance in the region will depend on its
ability to find a stable source o f funding for this activity. Inthe absence o f such funding, BOAD will
have to increasingly direct its lending to the commercial sector, as it is embarking in an institutional
capacity-building program that will prepare the ground for an independent rating and therefore
develop its source o f commercial borrowing. BOAD proposes to carry out a study which will be
financed under the proposed project on options to secure a permanent source o f concessional
resources.




                                                      - 62 -

                                     Table 8: Simplifiedincome statementsof BOAD between 1998 and 2002

                                                                             1999      2000        2001     2002
     Interest income                                                         14,141   16,222      17,845   19,661
    Treasury and interbank operations                                        1,836     2,819       2,646    3,081
    Customer Operations                                                      12,305    13,403     15,199   16,505
    Interest on securities                                                    353       362        398      360
    Offbalance sheet operations                                                0         0           0       15




    Source :BOAD

Since 1999 CBte d'Ivoire's economy has been suffering from political instability and deteriorating
terms o f trade. The political problems have not permitted the resumption o f IMF and WB assistance.
C8te d'Ivoire i s one o f the main client o f BOAD accounting for 23 percent (CFAF 52 billion) o f its
total portfolio as o f December 2002, o f which 54 percent for the private sector and 46 percent for the
public sector. The vulnerabilities for BOAD have beentranslated into stress test scenarios to tests the
resilience o f BOAD's net worth.

Scenario (i):      25 percent o f loans on the 13 project financed in conflict afflicted areas fall into the
doubtful/loss category and have to be provided for 50 percent. A 700 million loss would occur and
BOAD net worth will be reducedto CFAF 96 billion.

Scenario (ii):     100 percent o f loans inCBte d'Ivoire fall into the doubtful/loss category and the current
level o f provisioning for doubtful debts (73 percent in 2001) is maintained. In that event, BOAD
profit would turn to a loss o f 35 billion but the net worth would still represent 10 percent o f total
assets.

The credit risk stress test results show that BOAD has a highresilience. Although it came through the


                                                             - 63 -

recent period o f economic recession relatively well, it could be subject to significant pressures if the
decline ineconomic activity continues.

3. Conclusion

BOAD is a relatively a well-managed bank, capable of generating earnings in spite of dealing with a
difficult and underdeveloped financial market in countries characterized by public finance problems.
This profitability, however, needs to be improved to become more sustainable with the development
o f new activities and better control and supervision o f existing projects. In addition, BOAD has a
reasonably good financial structure for the current level o f its activities and portfolio. Also, it has a
growing potential in terms o f infrastructure demand and private sector financing in the WAEMU
member countries.

However, the bank's organization, especially its procedures, risk management and supervision
functions, need to be upgraded to meet the expected growth. BOAD needs to define financial and
operating ratios, correct the problems associated with its foreign exchange risk exposure, and
upgrade its staff.

The bank i s well aware o f these difficulties, and has prepared a development strategy covering the
period 2002-2006. This development strategy includes a strengthening o f its institutional capacity,
updating its procedures and o f its staff in order to improve financial policy and risk management.
With the view of obtaining better control over its financial and counterpart risks, development of an
asset and liability management system i s in the process o f being established and a risk management
unit has already been set up. In addition, a training program designed to give staff more highly
specialized skills inprivate sector and market related activities will be set up. These actions reflect the
bank's ongoing determination to improve its performance and to adapt to new markets developments.

Based on the important growth potential o f its activities, a clear vision o f the future and a credible
development plan, and provided that regulatory reforms in order to address foreign risk exposure
issue and institutional reforms are implemented, BOAD has a sufficient borrowing capacity to
accommodate the proposed IDA credit without any additional guarantee from shareholders. The
technical assistance designed under the project would contribute to enhance its expertise, the
development o f its activities and the coherent implementation o f its strategic plan.

'' See appendix 1 for evolution o f human resources from 1995 to 2001.
gJ Structure o f staff by Division and unit in appendix 2.
i:;On the other hand, BOAD is subject to regional exchange controls.
$2 Non-performing loans include "technical arrears" at the end o f each financial year.
ir]The aggregated risk for the solvability ratio is the sum o f total assets and off-balance items weighed at 100 percent
and 50 percent respectively.
   PerspectivesJinancidres actualisdes (2000-2006).




                                                            - 64 -

                                     2004  2005  2006  2007  2008 Total  Borrower Beneficiaries/ IDA   Local Foreign  Total
                                                                                  other Donors
1- Line of credit                      3.1 28.5  54.6  54.3  22.6  163.1      54.5          19.6   89.0 62.0    101.1   163.1
2-Guarantee Facility (IDAIMIGNAFD)   11.4   34.1 45.5  68.2  68.2  227.3       0.0        157.3    70.0  0.0    227.3   227.3
3- Equipment                           0.1  0.2  0.12    0.1  0.0     0.6      0.0           0.0   0.6   0.2       0.4     0.6
4- ConsultanL'Training                ,1.6   3.7  4.0    3.2  2.8    15.3      0.0           9.5    5.9   5.8      9.5   15.3
5- Recurrentcost                       0.1  0.1   0.1    0.1  0.1     0.3      0.0           0.0   0.3   0.1       0.2     0.3
6- Contingencies                       0.5  0.3   0.3    0.2  0.3     2.1      0.0           1.4   0.7    0.8      1.3     2.1
Total                                16.7  66.9  104.5 126.1 93.9  408.7      54.5        187.7   166.4 68.9   339.74  408.68



                                     2004  2005  2006  2007  2008 Total  Local    Foreign


1 Line of credit
 -                                     1.5  15.6 29.8  29.8  12.3    89.0      0.0         89.0
2- Equipment                           0.1  0.2  0.12   0.1   0.0     0.6      0.2           0.4
3- ConsultantlTraining                 0.2   1.8   1.6   1.1  1.1     5.9      2.2           3.7
4- Recurrentcost                       0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1     0.3      0.1           0.2
5- Contingencies                     0.04   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1     0.7      0.3           0.4
Total                                  1.9 17.84 31.8  31.2  13.6    96.4      2.8         93.6




                                                   - 65 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
              AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Procurement

Guidelines

Works and goods financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents and Standard Evaluation Report would be used for ICB.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures would include: (a) advertising in BOAD
member countries with wide circulation and public bid opening; (b) due to the regional nature o f
the project which will be implemented in several countries, exceptionally, the adequate response
time for preparation and submission o f bids is six (6) weeks; (c) explicit statement to bidders o f
the evaluation and award criteria; (d) no preference margin for domestic manufactured; (e) award
to lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with the criteria specified in the bidding documents.
Eligiblebidders, including foreign bidders, would not be precluded from participation inNCB. Bid
evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid.

Consultant Services contracts would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor
the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the
Bank, would be used for appointment o f consultants and the sample form o f Evaluation Report
for the Selection o f Consultants. Simplified contracts would be used for short-term assignments,
that is not exceeding six months, and carried out by firms or individual consultants.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) immediately after negotiations to advertise for major consulting
assignments and ICB. Sufficient time will be allowed (minimum o f 30 days) before preparing the
short list for consultants. The GPN will be updated annually for those contracts still outstanding.
Requests for expressions o f interest for consultants services costing more than US$200,000 will

prequalification or biddingdocuments, as applicable, will not be released - or that the short list for
be published in UN Development Business and in the national newspapers. The related

consultant services will not be prepared - before eight weeks after the GPN has been published.
Specific procurement notices (SPN) for goods and works will be advertised inthe national press
o f wide distribution. Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the bid documents. Advertisement
should also be done inBOAD's countries.

Procurement Capacity

A procurement capacity assessment was carried out as part o f the institutional analysis during the


                                                - 66 -

appraisal mission. The assessment, available in the project files, outlines the main issues and
recommendations. The assessmentrevealed that the procurement procedures o f BOAD did not go
into sufficient details to ensure adequate transparency and efficiency, and were not accompanied
by standard procurement documents essential for the implementationof the procedures. Based on
the assessment, an action plan has been prepared and agreed upon with the Borrower and focus
on (i) establishing procurement capacity through the recruitment o f a Procurement Specialist for
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU); (ii)     training o f key staff involved in procurement; (iii)
provision o f key support materials (i.e., computer, filing supplies); and (iv) installation o f a
procurement planning and contract management system integrated in the computerized financial
management system o f the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

ProcurementPlan

A procurement plan will be prepared by the PCU, and submitted to IDA for review and approval
before project's effectiveness. The plan will include relevant information on works, goods and
consulting services under the project as well as the timing o f each milestone in the procurement
process. The procurement plan will be updated every six months and reviewed at each supervision
mission.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

Through the PCU, BOAD will be responsible for all procurement, including preparation o f
request for proposals, terms o f reference, and contracts with consultants. The tasks will comprise:
(a) updating the procurement plan on six months basis; (b) preparing and/or finalizing the requests
for proposals (using standardized document for services); (c) evaluating bids and preparing
evaluation reports; and (d) handling contracts approval and management.

However, concerning the line o f credit, which will be the responsibility o f the Borrowers, BOAD
will ensure that the proceeds are used solely for the intended purposes and, in this connection, it
must therefore examine procedures for procurement o f goods, works, and selection o f
consultants, and ensure that all documents produced by the Borrower are in conformity with
those stated inthe DCA.

Procurement methods (Table A)

Works

Civil Works composed o f large-scale road estimated at more than US$1.7 millionper contract up
to an aggregate o f US$89.0 million equivalent will be carried out under International Competitive
Bidding(ICB).

Goods

Procurement o f computers and office equipment, grouped into bid packages o f US$100,000 will
be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Other office equipment and materials
(fax, telephone, etc.) o f the project management unit locally available at economical price that


                                                - 67 -

cannot be grouped into bid packages o f US$20,000 may be procured through international
shopping. The Borrower would award the contract, on the basis o f written solicitation issuedto at
least three qualified suppliers, following evaluation o f bids received inwriting from such qualified
suppliers. The award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price quotation for the
required goods, provided he still has the experience and resources to execute the contract
successfully.

IDA Reviews

Prior review : The two first contracts for Civil Works regardless o f value, and each contract for
Goods above the threshold value o f $250,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA prior review
procedures set forth inparagraphs 2 and 3 o f Appendix 1to the Guidelines.

Post review : For any other contract the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 o f Appendix to the
Guidelines will apply.

Consultants Services
The consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA would be for the following types o f
activities: (i)studies, support o f project implementation, institutional support, technical assistance;
(ii)financialmanagement support, financial andtechnicalaudits; and(iii)training-- skills gap
analysis, skills development -- and training o f staff from the various institutions (BRVM,BCEAO,
CR, and local partner) that are involved inproject implementation activities.

The PCU (Project Coordination Unit) would ensure that procurement notices are widely
publicized to get candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals). The following selection
procedures would be used:

(a) Quality- and Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts for firms would be
awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure that priority i s
given to the identification o f suitable and qualified regional consultants, short-lists for contracts
estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO         equivalent, or less may be comprised entirely o f regional
consultants (in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines),
provided that a sufficient number o f qualified firms (at least three) are available. However, if
foreign firms have expressed interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.

(b) Consultant's Qualification Selection may be usedfor consulting services for research studies,
and targeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to
work with vulnerable groups and proven track records would be recruited, provided the amount
o f the contract i s estimated to cost less than US$20,000.

(c) Least Cost Selection would be the procurement method usedfor financial/technical audits.

(d) Consultants for services meeting the requirements o f Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines
will be selected under the provisions for the Selection o f Individual Consultants method.
Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison o f curriculum vitae against job



                                                  - 68 -

description requirements o f those expressing interest in the assignment, or those having been
identifieddirectly by the Borrower. Consultants hiredunder the project cannot be civil servants.

Training, Workshops, and Conferences. The total cost o f these activities is estimated at
US$5.8 million equivalent for the project. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study
tours will be carried out on the basis o f approved annual programs that will identify the general
framework o f training and similar activities for the year, including the nature o f traininghtudy
tours/workshops, the number o f participants, and cost estimates.

IDA prior review

The first two contracts for the employment o f consulting firms for the supervision and inspection o f Road
Projects under the line o f credit will be subject to IDA prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 3 o f Appendix 1to the Guidelines.

Consulting contracts costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and all individual
consulting contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more would be subject to
IDA prior review. All other contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with
paragraph 4 Appendix 1 o f the guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts raising their
values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review.

Other procurement subject to IDA review would include annual training plans for local and
overseas training and workshops, includingterms o f reference and estimatedbudgets.

Assurance was received during negotiations that BOAD will take the necessary measure to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods :

ProcurementPhases                            Maximumnumber of weeks
Preparation o f biddingdocuments              4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparationo f bids by bidders                6 for N C B (6-10 for ICB)
Bidevaluation                                 2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature o f Contracts                       2
Pavments                                      3

Post Review

Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds as specified above will be
maintained by the project unit for post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The
unitwill berequiredto maintain all relevant procurement documentationfor subsequent reviewby
IDA. The unit will submit to IDA periodic procurement plan detailing each procurement package
inprogress and completed as part ofthe normalproject reporting exercise.




                                                    - 69 -

                 Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                     1    (US$ million equivalent)

                                                    Procurement          Method
   Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB              Other'  '      N.B.F.         Total
                                                 ~                                     I             I   cost    I
                                                                       ~




I   Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
    contingencies.
I'  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
    contracted staff of the Project Coordination Unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
    operating costs relatedto (i)managingthe project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                  - 70 -

                       Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                           (US$ million equivalent)




                              (0.50)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.40)   (0.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (1.OO)
8. Individuals                 0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      4.88     0.00         4.88
                              (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.88)    (0.00)      (4.88)
                    Total  1   0.50      0.00       0.00      0.40      0.10     4.88      0.00         5.88
                              (0.50) I  (0.00)   I (0.00)  I (0.40)  I (0.10) I  (4.88)  I (0.00)  I   (5.88) I
I\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                 Commercial Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank CrediffGuarantee.


                                    Contract Value                                        Contracts Subject to
   Expenditure Category                Threshold                  Procurement                 Prior Review
                                    (US$ thousands)                 Method                    (US$ millions)
 1.Works                                 500,000                      ICB                      Prior review
2. Goods                                >250,000                      ICB             Priorreview
                                        <20,000                     Shopping           Postreview
 3. Services
 Firms                                  > 100,000                    QCBS               Prior review
                                        < 100,000                   CQ/LCS              Postreview

 Individual                             > 50,000                     3 cvs              Prior review
                                        = 50,000
                                         < 50,000                    3 cvs              Post review

 Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                             70 percent of total costs
 Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:                                          High
 Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:                           One every 6 months
                                                                               (includesspecialprocurement
                                                                               supervisionfor post-reviewlaudits)
'Thresholds  generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                      - 71 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
               AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Financial Management
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

Introduction

The Bank's policy (OP 10.02) requires borrowers and project implementing agencies to maintain
financial management system, including accounting, financial reporting and auditing systems,
adequate to ensure that they can provide to the Bank accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures. The assessment o f the Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpement (B0AD)'s financial management systems is done in line with guideline issued by
the Financial Management Sector BoardinJune 2001.

Summary of the Financial Management Assessment

Based on the assessment conducted, the Accounting Department has an acceptable financial and
accounting system with well-qualified staff. BOAD has substantial experience inmanaging project
financed by donors. BOAD had borrowed three times in the past from the Bank and the credit
were well-managed. But inthe light o f potential growth o f BOAD activities, the Accounting and
Finance Department needs to be reinforced by recruiting more qualified staff. To this end it i s
agreed that the project will contribute to reinforce the BOAD's capacity in several areas
(accounting, internal audit, project supervision etc). Also a coordination unit will be set up with
qualified staff including accounting and procurement specialist before project's effectiveness. A
project operational manual describing roles, responsibilities and relations between coordination
Unit and other actors involved inthe project is under preparation. This manual will cover both
operational, and financial management aspects. Based on the assessment conducted, the borrower
financial management system satisfy IDA'Sminimumrequirements under OPBP 10.02.
Institutional and implementationarrangements

There will be a Steering Committee (Comiti de Pilotage) regrouping BCEAO, Conseil Rigional,
BOAD, WAEMU Commission, and one person representing Governments. The Steering
Committee will he headed by someone appointed by BCEAO and the Project Coordinator has
been appointed by BOAD. Overall project management would be handled by the project
coordinator working full time on the implementation o f various activities and a project
Component manager located in each o f the beneficiaries institutions will handle activities to be
carried out by their respective institutions. Adequate staff would be assigned to specific functions,
such as financial management, procurement, etc. It is expected that project staff will be
redeployed by BOAD at the end of the project. The implementation arrangement discussed with
BCEAO, BOAD and Conseil Rigional i s summarizedbelow.




                                                - 72 -

Country FinancialManagementIssues (NA)

BOAD, the borrower, is a regional autonomous entity which has borrowed from the Bank in the
past. Therefore, the country risk i s not relevant i s this case.

Staff

The BOAD's management team i s competent and experienced. At the same time, the Finance and
accounting department which performs both operational and supporting activities including
accounting, has only 12 professional staff. This number seems to be insufficient to handle
adequately the mandate o f this department. The staffing issue i s generic for all departments.
However, BOAD has a competitive salary scale to attract professionals. Some recruitments are in
progress and other will take place before project become effective. Also, the newly recruited
professionals who will be appointed for the project activities and paid from the proceeds o f the
credit will reinforce BOAD's capacity after completion o f the project. It is expected that this staff
will be absorbed by BOAD.

Reportingand Monitoring

BOAD is well-equipped and usually produces financial and accounting reports with a short period
after the close o f each exercise. The financial and accounting system can produce on a regular
basis and on demand information relative to commitments by donors and other financial
information on request. The line o f credit which represents about 85 percent o f total credit will
finance about 13 roads (pavement and reinforcement). Over a 4-year period, all these activities
will generate about fifty accounting records. Although other activities covered by the remaining
15 percent would generate more accounting records, it i s expected the accountant to be recruited
on the project can manage all transactions. The project will utilize the accounting system o f the


                                                 - 73 -

BOAD which has sufficient flexibility to track the use o f project funds. Project Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will not be generated automatically from the BOAD's system, but
will be compiledmanually.

The Project would submit quarterly FMRs to the Bank. These reports are to be reviewed by
Bank. The FMRswould include the following:
(i) Financial Reports: These are to provide information on the sources and the uses o f hnds by
disbursement category and by project activity, forecasts o f expenditures, amounts o f disbursement
requested and a reconciliation o f the Special Account.
(ii)Project Progress Reports: These are to provide informationon project implementation
progress in physical and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying
deviations from plans and explaining reasons for such variations.
(iii)Procurement Management Reports: These are to indicate the status o f procurement and
contract commitments and expenditure including source o f supply data for contracts subject to the
Bank's prior review, as well as post-review contracts above a certain threshold.

The FMRwould be submittedwithin 45 days of the end o f each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs
would be submitted at the end o f the first quarter inwhich disbursements start. The draft form o f
FMRhas beendeveloped for the project.

Accountingpolicies

BOAD's financial statements are regularly prepared in accordance with SYSCOA standards
which are in compliance with International Accounting Standards. The same standards will be
used for the project (accrual accounting).

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal audit. BOAD has an internal audit unit in the President's office. This unit performs
adequately goodjob and issues on regular basis an activity report despite the insufficient number
o f professional staff. However, the bank's adoption o f a new information system presents some
risks which have not been adequately assessed by the internal auditors. The bank's growth
requires strengtheningo f the internal audit function both interm o f quality and quantity to ensure
the timely delivery o f reliable reports by the internal auditors. It is important to build a strong
internal capacity to ensure consistency and efficiency.

BOAD's accounts are audited by BCEAO (monetary authority and main stockholder o f BOAD)
in accordance with a decision by its Board of Director. BCEAO audit is conducted generally in
February prior to external audit and recommendations are taken into account before financial
statements are finalized.

External audit. BOAD's financial statements are annually audited by an internationally
recognized audit firm. In addition to this, a management performance audit is organized each
three years. At present, the auditors are Price Waterhouse/Coopers and Ernst and Young
respectively. Furthermore, BOAD has recently appointed an international audit firm which has
performed audit of the portfolio. All audits are satisfactory and there was no significant issue


                                                - 74 -

raised by the auditors. BOAD external control mechanism i s reliable and adequate. The line o f
credit which represents about 85 percent o f total credit will finance about 13 large contracts o f
which two will be subject to prior review, and the remainder will be subject to IDA post review.
Considering the robust internal and external controls, the Bank will accept the BOAD's audited
financial statements which should be submitted no later than 6 months after the end o f each fiscal
year. Inaddition, the annual audit report and the triennial management audit report will be sent to
IDA upon completion. Also, a portfolio audit will be conducted at least every 2 years and sent to
IDA within 6 months after the beginningofthe fiscal year inwhich the audit shall be conducted.

3. DisbursementArrangements

Flow of funds mechanism

The disbursement process will conform to Bank disbursement procedures. The flow o f funds is
designed to manage finds provided by the World Bank.

Excluding the IDNMIGNAFD guarantee component, the project total cost i s about US$269.85
millionincludingUS$96.39 million to be provided by IDA credit. The flow o f finds mechanism i s
described below:

(i) theLineofcredit(92percentofcredit) disbursementwillbebasedonhlldocumentation
    For
consisting o f invoices and contracts. Expenditures would be pre-financed by BOAD which will
seek reimbursement from IDA. This option will facilitate prompt payment; (ii) the otherFor
expenditures (8 percent o f credit) which exclude the Line o f credit, the borrower will open a
Special Account (SA). For financing seminars, workshops and other decentralized activities,
BOAD's decentralized units support will handle the activities. The expenditures should be paid
through the special account if they are 20 percent below the SA advances. The borrower could
also pre-finance expenditures and to be reimbursed by IDA. The management modalities for the
Special Account will be specified inthe operationalmanual.

Special Account

One Special Account will be opened for the project to finance expenses described in the
paragraph above. Only amounts exceeding 20 percent o f the amount advanced to the special
account can be claimed through the direct payment procedure excluding sub-loans expenditure to
be claimed under reimbursement applications. The project will receive an initial advance o f CFAF
150 millions. An increase in advance up to the authorized allocation o f CFAF 300 millionwill be
considered during MTR or when the cumulative replenishment will reach US$3 million
equivalent.

BOAD 's contribution

It was agreed that, for projects to be financed under the Line o f Credit, the local currency portion
would be assumed by BOAD on its own resources, IDA would cover the foreign exchange
component o f each project. IDA will be reimbursingBOAD only for sums paid up to 62 percent
o f the total sub-loans (foreign and local currency amount). Office space, electricity and water


                                                - 75 -

expenses would be covered by BOAD. BOAD staff working on the project would be paid by
BOAD. The new staff recruited by BOAD as a result of the Project will paid by the project
resources using BOAD's salary scale.

Uses of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)

The Association will require withdrawals from the Credit account to be made on the basis o f
statements o f expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than
US$250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services o f individual consultants costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services o f consulting firms under contracts costing
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; and (d) operating expenses, all under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to BOAD. All supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external
auditors.

 Allocation of creditlguarantee proceeds (Table C)

                           Table C: Allocation of CrediUGuarantee Proceeds




 2. Equipment                                         0.59                       100
 3. ConsultanVTraining                                5.88                      100
4. ODerating: ewenses                                 0.25                      100
 5. Unallocated                                       0.67

 Total Project Costs with Bank                       96.39
 Financing
 Total                                               96.39




                                                  - 76 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
              AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


 Project Schedule                                          Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
 First Bank mission (identification)                     10/22/2001                   10/22/2001
/Appraisal mission departure                   I        04/15/2003           I        04125I2003    I
 Negotiations                                           0510112003                    12101/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                          07101I2003                    0613012004

Prepared by:
Noel K. Tshiani

Preparation assistance:

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
         Name                                           Speciality
Noel K.Tshiani                          Task Team Leader
Djibrilla A. Issa                       Financial Sector Specialist
Tadashi Endo                            Senior Capital Markets Development Specialist
 Sheela Reddi, Fatiha Amar, Sidonie     Language Program Assistants
Jocktane, Chantal Tiko
Michel Wormser                          Director, PFG
Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao                   Senior Financial Officer, Guarantees
Aida Der Hovanessian                    Ratings Consultant
Robert Robelus                          Senior Environment Specialist
Pankaj Gupta                            Senior Financial Analyst, Guarantees
Hugues Agossou, Soukeyna Kane           Financial Management Specialists
Kossi Eguida                            Social Development Specialist
Asha Ayoung, Yao Wottor                 Procurement Specialists
Monique Koning                          Senior Guarantee Specialist, MIGA
Jean-Charles de Daruvar                 Senior Counsel
Mark Walker                             Lead Counsel
Pierre Vieillescazes                    Senior Financial Officer
Jyoti Azad and Evelyne Gomis            Operations Analysts
Alexandre Dossou                        Senior Highway Engineer
Jean Noel Guillossou                    Senior Highway Engineer
Colette El-Hamri                        Finance Analyst
Mamadou Barry                           Senior Underwriter, MIGA
Ann Rennie                              Lead Specialist
Wolfgang Chadab                         Finance Officer




                                                - 77 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
              AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


A. Project ImplementationPlan
        Project Information Document
   0    Integrated SafeguardData Sheet
   0    Timetable for Project Implementation
   0    Procurement Plan
   0    Cost Tables by component

B. Bank Staff Assessments

   0    Financial Analysis of BOAD
        Report on the Debt Market inthe UEMOA and Recommendations for its Development
   0    MissionAide-Memoire, October 2001, April 2003, May 2003
   0    Outline for institutional support component for BOAD and RegionalDebt Market Development
        (2001)
   0    Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (July 2001)

C. Other

   0    BOAD-Perspectives Financidres Actualisdes 2000-2004 and 2002-2006
   0    Propositions de Principes Directeurspour les interventions de la BOAD sur le marchk
        Mondtaire Approfondi de I'UEMOA
   0    Ernst & Young (2001), Rapport d 'Audit Triennal de Gestion
   0    Principes Dkontologiques et Rdglement Gdndral du Conseil Rkgional de I'EpargnePublique et
        de Marchks Financiers
   0    Price, Waterhouse Cooper (ZOOI), Rapport Gdnkral du Commissaire au Comptes de la BOAD
   0    BCEAO (2001), Rapport de Vdrijkation du Portefeuille de la BOAD au 31 ddcembre 2000
   0    BCEAO (2000), Rapport de VkriJication du Portefeuille de la BOAD au 31 dkcembre 1999
   0    Bilans de la BOAD entre 1996et 2002
   0    Etat deformation de rksultat de I996 ci 2002
   0    Arthur Andersen (2001, Etude sur leplan de Carridre de la BOAD
   0    Tableaux de bord de gestion de la BOAD afin ddcembre 1998, dkcembre 1999et mars 2002
   0    BOAD (septembre 2001) :Situation des ressources mobilisdes au 31juillet 2002
   0    Le systBme de gestion actif-pass$ cahiers numdro 1et 2
   0    BOAD (septembre2001) :Orientation stratkgique de la BOAD
   0    Extrait du Projet de manuel de cotation
   0    Extrait duprojet de manuel de ddclassement et de Provisionnement des Crdances en Soufrance
   0    Organigramme de la BOAD au 31 aotit 2001
   0    Rapport annuel 2002 de la BOAD
   0    Etude relative a la Dotation de la BOAD de Ressources Concessionnelles Pdrennes Ouin 2000)
   0    Plan d'actionpour la relance des activitds du marchkfinancier rkgional

*Including electronic files




                                                 - 78 -

                                        Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                            24-Sep-2003
                                                                                                                     Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO72881     2003 [3T] BEAC Regional Payment System              0.00      14.50                  0.00    0.00   15.60         0.70      0.00
PO63683     2001 [3E] REGIONAL TRADE FACILITATION PROJ          0.00       5.00                  0.00    0.00     1.34        0.26      0.00
P054884     2001 [3W] BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS            0.00       9.40                  0.00    0.00     2.50        0.87      0.00
P036037     1999 OIL SPILL CONTINGENCY                          0.00       0.00                  3.15    0.00     0.33        3.55      0.00
P000001     1996 COMM CONSERV a WILDL                           0.00       0.00                  4.40    0.03     0.84        1.86      0.00

                                                     Total:    0.00       28.90                7.55      0.03   20.60         7.24      0.00




                                                               - 79 -

                                           AFRICA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30 - 2003
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                     IFC                              IFC
FY Approval   Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999           AIF                             0.00    70.96     0.00    0.00   0.00    25.89   0.00  0.00
1999          AIF (Mgmt)                       0.00     0.20     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.10    0.00  0.00
2003          AIFH                             0.00     6.62     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.27    0.00  0.00
1993          Africa Fund                      0.00     7.25     0.00    0.00   0.00    7.25    0.00  0.00
2002          Africap                          0.00     2.00     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.46    0.00  0.00
0             EnergyAfr Ltd                    0.00    38.02     0.00    0.00   0.00    38.02   0.00  0.00
2001          MACS                            30.00     4.00     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2000101       MSICIH                           0.00     0.00    20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   20.00  0.00
2002          Osprey                           0.00     0.25     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00  0.00
2002          SABCO                           10.00    10.00     0.00    0.00   0.00    10.00   0.00  0.00
2001104       TV Africa                        0.00     0.22     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.04    0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         40.00   139.52     20.00   0.00     0.00  82.28   20.00  0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999          AIF                                 0.00       0.00     0.03     0.00
2003          AfricanLakes                        0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2001          MACS                                0.00       0.00     0.00     0.04
2001          PAIP                                0.00       0.00     0.05     0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       0.00     0.08     0.04




                                             - 80 -

                                                 Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                    AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

        West African Economic and Monetary Union WEMOA) at a glance                                                                           4/3/02

                                                                    West African       LOW 8
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Economic and        middle
                                                                 Monetary Unlon       income        DeveloDment diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year fmillionsl                                             70.5      5,151.8                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                                           360        1,230
GNI (Afias method, US$ billions)                                            25.1      6,335.6
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                                                2.8         1.5
Labor force (%J                                                               2.7         1.8       GNI
                                                                                                    per
Most recent estimate (latest Year available. 1994-00)                                               capita
Poverty I%of populafionbelow nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                                      34          42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                              47          64
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                     102          58
Child malnutrition (% of chiidren under 5)                                                                 Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population!'                         68          79
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                           64          25                    West African Economic and
Gross primary enrollment f% of school-age population)                         63         107              -     Low & middle income group
                                                                                                                Monetary Union (UEMOA)
    Male                                                                      74         110
    Female                                                                    53         101

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1980        1990       1999         2000
                                                                                                    Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                   21.8        27.9       26.9         23.7
Gross domestic investmentIGDP                        21.0        13.1        18.1        17.2
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                    27.3        24.4       31.2         32.0                              Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            8.3         8.6       14.1         11.9
Gross national savingsiGDP                                        3.6        11.6         9.9                                T

Current account balancelGDP                          -8.0        -9.0        -6.5        -7.3
Interest paymentslGDP                                 3.5         2.3         2.5         2.5
Total debtlGDP                                       57.5      105.0       101.8        107.4
Total debt serviceiexports                           27.7        25.3       21.9         18.4
Present value of debtlGDP                                                                83.2
Present value of debtlexports                                                           235.5
                                                                                                                        Indebtedness
                                                 1980.90    1990-00         1999        2000
(averaqe annual growfhl
GDP                                                   1.5         3.6         3.3         1.3           -J_xuw  West African Economic and
GDP per capita                                       -1.5         0.7         0.5        -1.5                   Monetary Union (UEMOA)
Exports of goods and services                         1.4         3.9         3.0         0.8                   Low & middle income aroup



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1980        1990        1999        2000
I%of GDPJ                                                                                           Growth of Investment and GDP (Oh)

Agriculture                                          29.9        32.3       30 8         31.5       33 T
Industry                                             18.3        20.1       21.5         21.1
   Manufacturing                                     10.6        14.8        14.4        14.1        0
Services                                             51.7        47.6       47.7         47 4

Private consumption                                  76.2        76.4       74.3         76.8      -33 1
General government consumption                       15.4        15.1        11.6        11.3                  e==,,a"m  0 D,
Imports of goods and services                        39.9        28.9       35.3         37.3                                             G0p



                                                 1980.90    1990.00         1999        2ooo     1
(average annual growth)                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (%)                1
Agriculture                                           2.1         3.6         2.0         6 3
Industry                                              3.4         4.8         3.7        -1 6      t:
   Manufacturing                                      3.3         4.1         2.8        -2 3
Services                                              0.8         3.0         4.1        .I5       1;


Private consumption                                   1.3         3.1         0.8         3 0      .5
General government consumption                        2.0         1.2         6.1        -2 9     -10
Gross domestic investment                            -2.3         5.5         7.0         0 7               ""-"Exports           -Imports
Imports of goods and services                        -0.9         2.8         0.0         2 3

Source : World Bank (2001). Worid Development Indicators

Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
West African Economic and Monetary Union includes Benin, Burkina Faso, Cdte d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income.group average. If data are missing,
    the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                        -81 -

                                                          WestAfrican Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA)

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                     1980      1990        I999       2000
Domestic prices                                                                                    Inflation  ( O h )

(% change)                                                                                                                                            I
Consumer prices                                                   0.3        0.4         2.4
Implicit GDP deflator                                11.5         1.4         1.8        0.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                 17.9        17.4       17.3
Current budget baiance                                           -3.5        2.9        2.4      I             --GDP           deflator +CPI          I
Overall SurDlusideficit                                          -9.0        -4.8       -4.1

TRADE
                                                     1980      1990        1999       2000
(US$ millions)                                                                                   1Export and import levels (US$ mill.)                 1
Total exports (fob)                                            5,431       6,772      6,128      /10,6?3  1
  Manufactures                                        136      1.481       1,629      1,612
Total imports (ci0                                             6,021       7,619      7,521
  Food                                                313      1,335       1,482      1,308
  Fuel and energy                                     396        993       1,106      1,387
                                                                                                 I                                                    I
  Capital goods                                       383      1,373       1,889      1,848
Export price index (1995=100)                                                                               94         95    96    97   98     99

Import price index (1995=100)                                                                                        Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                                                           O0



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                     1980      1990        I999       2000
(US$ millions)                                                                                   I Current   account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                       6,403      7,032       8,547      7,717
Imports of goods and services                       8,967      8,144       9,545      8,963
Resource balance                                   -2,564    -1,112        -998      -1,247
Net income                                           -684    -1,885       -1,054       -968
Net current transfers                                 464       491          313        481

Current account baiance                            -1,737    -2,505       -1,739     -1,733
Financing items (net)                               1,435     2,657        1,819      1,557
Changes in net reserves                               302      -152          -80        176
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                     1980      1990        1999       2000
(US$ millions)                                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               12,542    29,277      27,371     25,412
   IBRD                                               366     2,006          712        601                             G: 1,797A: 601
   IDA                                               471      2,859       6,577       6,378
Total debt service                                  1,923      1,920      2,010       1,541
   IBRD                                                35       294          183         93
   IDA                                                  3         27          99         94
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                    439       1,714       1,463      1,524
  Official creditors                                 696       1,091       -140          44
   Private creditors                                1,065          2       -291       -162
  Foreign direct investment                          207         100        599         374
  Portfolio equity                                      0          0           8          6
World Bank program
  Commitments                                         187       514         264         489
  Disbursements                                       194       594         321         388       A                                       E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 D Other multilateral
  Principal repayments                                 10       155          177        110       B IDA               ~                   F Private
                                                                                                  C IMF
                                                                                                    --- IBRD                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                                            ---
  Net flows                                           184       439          144        278
  Interest payments                                   29        166          105         77
  Net transfers                                       155       273           39        202

Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                               4/3/02
Inflation figures are median values. Balance of payments items excluding exports and imports are simple sums and may not reconciie.
West African Economic and Monetary Union includes Benin, Burkina Faso, CBte d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.




                                                                        - 82 -

                            Component 3 -Detailed Description
                                      Additional Annex 11

                         The IDA, MIGA and AFD Guarantee Facility
             AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

This Annex provides additional details o f the Guarantee Facility supported on a several basis by
IDA, MIGA and AFD (Component 3 ofthe Project). The Facility would be administered with the
assistance o f BOAD with an objective of stimulating private investment in small and medium-size
infrastructure projects by providing risk mitigation instruments that will help in reducing the
political and commercial risksinherent inprivate projects.

The RiskMitigationInstrumentsunder the GuaranteeFacility

The IDA, MIGA and AFD Guarantees are designed to provide confidence to the beneficiaries o f
such guarantees that compensation would be paid by the guarantors on a several basis for any
losses that are incurred as a result o f a covered event or in the predefined instances o f
non-commercial or commercial defaults, as the case maybe under the private project agreements.
IDA Guarantees would require a counter guarantee from the host government against such
defaults on government obligations under the project agreements. Inthe case o f AFD Guarantees,
counter-guarantees by the host government may be required on a case-by-case basis. As per its
Convention, MIGA does not require counter-guarantees for its support.

It is envisaged that IDA and AFD guarantees would be limited to debt instrumentsand MIGA
guarantees could cover both equity and debt. IDA and MIGA guarantees would only cover
political risk events, whereas AFD guarantees may be provided to cover commercial risk as well
as political risk events (a comprehensive guarantee). It i s expected that the Guarantor(s) -IDA
and/or MIGA and/or AFD, as applicable -with assistance from B O A D would negotiate the final
risk coverage with the private sector and the commercial lenders with the objective of reducing
the risk coverage under various guarantees to the minimum level required to facilitate the
financing required for the sub-project. The extent o f the risk coverage provided by MIGA would
be determined in accordance with the amounts requested by the prospective beneficiary of the
MIGA guarantee on a case by case basis, and inaccordance with the eligibility criteria under the
Guarantee Facility.

It is proposed that the IDA Guarantee would only cover sovereign or host government related
obligations that lead to a debt service default. These risks would be limitedto those arising out of:
    (i)Changes in law: Any future changes inhost country legislation and licenses that may
    adversely affect the private sector including regulatory obligations o f the government, tariff
    adjustments, changes infiscal regime, etc.
    (ii) Government payment obligations: Certain governmental contractual payment obligations
    that have been concluded with the private sector including, but not limited to, government
    off-take commitments, termination payments, etc.
    (iii)Currency convertibility and transferability: The inability o f the investor to convert local
    currency into a freely convertible foreign currency and transfer foreign currency out o f the
    host country.



                                                 - 83 -

     (iv) Expropriation and creeping expropriation: Any government action that results in
     nationalization o f the assets inan arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
     (v) Political force majeure: Any political violence in the host country (war, revolution,
     insurrection, civil strife, etc) that results inthe interruption or termination o f the Sub-project.
     (vi) Interference in arbitrationprocess: Any action by the host government or a thirdparty to
     frustrate the dispute resolution process.

Risk coverage under the MIGA guarantee would be limitedto those arising out o f
     (i)Transfer Restriction and Inconvertibility: losses resulting from the inability o f the investor
     to convert local currency (capital, interest, principal, profits, royalties, and other remittances)
     into foreign exchange for transfer outside the host country.
     (ii)Expropriation (including creeping expropriation): losses arising from host government
     actions that reduce or eliminate ownership of, control over, or rights to the insured
     investment.
     (iii)War and Civil Disturbance: losses resulting from physical damage, destruction or
     disappearance o f tangible assets caused by politically motivated acts o f war or civil
     disturbance in the host country, including insurrection, revolution, coups d'etat, sabotage and
     terrorism.
     (iv) Breach o f Contract: losses arising from breach by the host government of contractual
     obligations when the investor cannot enforce an award or judicial decision recognizing its
     rightto be compensated by the host government.

Criteria for Supporting Private Projects under the Facility

Inorder that the Guarantor(s) may provide such coverage, all Sub-projects (a private project that
i s proposed to be supported by the Guarantee Facility) must meet the eligibility criteria including
those relating to the Safeguards. Availability o f the Guarantee Facility would not preclude the
Guarantors from providing a guarantee, insurance or lending support to a private project in the
WAEMU countries outside the Guarantee Facility, especially to those projects that do not meet
the eligibility criteria o f the Guarantee Facility, notably for large infrastructure projects. Each
Sub-project proposed to be covered by the Guarantee Facility would be expected to meet the
following eligibility criteria :
             A sub-project shall be inthe infrastructure sector unless agreed otherwise by the
             Guarantors. It i s expected that the Sub-project would be consistent with the
             host-country IDA CAS/PRSP/I-PRSP or an equivalent country strategy.
             A Sub-project shall not have a total project cost (including contingencies) o fmore
             than USS50 millionequivalent, unless the Guarantor(s) otherwise agree.
             The cumulative amount o f guarantees supporting any individual sub-project shall not
             exceed USS30 millionequivalent. IDA'Ssupport to a particular sub-project shall be
             limited to US$15 millionequivalent. MIGA's support, excluding coinsurance with
             private or public insurers, to a particular sub-project shall be limitedto US$15 million
             equivalent. AFD's support to a particular support shall also be limited to USS15
             million equivalent.
             All prospective sub-projects will comply with applicable environmental guidelines and
             environmental and social safeguard policies o f MIGA, as set forth inthe Guidebook.



                                                    - 84-

For the purposes o f IDA Guarantee, the underlying transaction would also be expected to meet
the following additional criteria: (i) sub-project must meet the requirements set out in the
                                       Each
Bank's Articles o f Agreement and the relevant provisions o f OP 14.25 Guarantees; (ii)The
maturity o f the underlying financing that is being guaranteed shall generally not be less than 7
(seven) years. This criterion will not be applicable if IDA i s guaranteeing a Letter o f Credit in the
context o f a sub-project. For the purposes o f the MIGA guarantee, each Sub-project proposed to
be covered by MIGA will be subject to MIGA's eligibility criteria as expressed in the MIGA
Convention, the Operational Regulations, and other policies and guidelines.

The Role o f BOAD

As an administrator of the Guarantee Facility, BOAD would be expected to: (i)market and
promote the Guarantee Facility; (ii)  identify and screening sub-projects for eligibility; (iii) in
                                                                                               assist
the processing o f sub-projects; and (iv) assist inthe monitoring, supervision and administration o f
sub-projects that have been supported by the Guarantee Facility. Even though, IDA, MIGA and
AFD Guarantees will be issued directly by the three institutions, BOADwould undertake a critical
role inthe marketing and the screening o f sub-projects.

Specifically, BOADwould be responsible for:
            formulating and implementing a marketing plan to implement the Guarantee Facility in
            WAEMU countries;
            screening sub-projects that couldpotentially be supported by the Guarantee Facility;
            requesting the host government to provide a Request for Guarantee for the purposes
            o f IDA and AFD Guarantees.
            completing a screening application to be sent to the Guarantor(s) for approval;
            assistingthe Guarantor(s) is the processing o f a proposed sub-project;
            assisting inthe overall coordination o f the project processing with the government and
            private sector stakeholders.
            assisting the Guarantor(s) inmonitoring and supervision o f sub-projects reports to the
            Guarantors as requested; and
            provision o f regular updates to the Guarantors on the implementation o f the Guarantee
            Facility.

The Role of the Guarantors

The Guarantors would undertake the following role during the implementation o f the Guarantee
Facility subject to the terms o f the Guarantee Facility Agreement :
       0    to provide technical assistance and support in the implementation o f the Guarantee
            Facility;
       0    to ensure that the Guarantee Facility is operated incompliance with the Guidebook
       0    to coordinate with the BOADregarding the processing o f sub-projects;
       0    to refer inquiries received by the Guarantors to BOAD for follow-up which could
            potentially be prepared as sub-projects under the Guarantee Facility;
       0    to process guarantees under the Guarantee Facility;


                                                 -85 -

            to ensure that all o f the Safeguard related requirements o f the Guarantee Facility, in
            particular those relating to the environment are met on each of the sub-projects;
            to prepare, negotiate and issue the Guarantee related legal agreements;
            to monitor, administer and supervise the Sub-projects in close cooperation with
            BOADfollowing financial close and after a Guarantee hasbeenissued; and
            to review the progress o f the Guarantee Facility on a regular basis; and
        0   to approve individual guarantees, if all applicable guidelines and policies have been
            met.

The recommendation to use IDA, MIGA and/or AFD will originate from BOAD (based on the
principles laid down in the Guarantee Facility Guidebook), and will be closely coordinated and
approved by the project leadership after consultation with all three institutions-the       relevant
Country Management Unit, PFG, MIGA and AFD. It i s expected that there would not be any
duplication o f risk coverage under IDA, MIGA and AFD guarantees and the IDA, MIGA and
AFD Project Coordinators will agree on the risk coverage before providing a positive response to
BOAD's Preliminary Application. It is envisaged that each sub-project guarantee would be
approved by the Regional Vice President-Africa       (for the purposes o f the IDA guarantee) and by
the Executive Vice President, MIGA, on behalf o f the President, as i s MIGA's normal practice
(for the purposes o f the MIGA guarantee). For the purposes o f MIGA guarantee, a review by the
Risk Management Committee of MIGA is undertaken. It is also proposedthat BOAD would also
assist IDA and MIGA inthe supervision o f the sub-projects.

Legal Arrangements

The Guarantee Facility comprises the following agreements:

(i) AGuaranteeFacilityAgreement(theGFA)betweenthegovernments oftheparticipating
WAEMU member countries, BOAD and the three Guarantors (IDA, MIGA and AFD). Under
the GFA, governments have confirmed their participation inthe scheme, agreed on the proposed
role for BOAD, and committed to support the implementation o f the Guarantee Facility. The
GFA also clarifies the role of BOAD in undertaking the development o f private projects in
WAEMU countries.         The Guarantee Facility Guidebook provides detailed guidelines and
procedures that have been agreed by the Guarantors and BOAD, which will be followed during
the implementation ofthe Guarantee Facility.

(ii) DependingonwhetheranIDAand/orMIGAandoranAFDGuarantee isprovided, a
Guarantee Agreement, for the purposes o f an IDA and AFD Guarantees, or a Contract of
Guarantee, for the purposes o f a MIGA Guarantee, and an IDA and/or AFD sub-project
Agreement with the private sector will be executed with the beneficiary o f the guarantee. The
terms and conditions of the IDA, MIGA and AFD guarantees for each Sub-project would be
embodied in the relevant guarantee agreement. If IDA supports a particular Sub-project,
covenants that require the private project company to comply with other IDA requirements,
which are not specifically noted inthe Guidebook may be included inthe Sub-project Agreement.
Similarly, in the case of a MIGA guarantee, these will be included in the Contract o f Guarantee
and inthe case o f an AFD Guarantee inthe AFD Sub-project Agreement



                                                 - 86 -

(iii) Ingeneral,IDAGuaranteescannotbeprocessedbeforereceivingaLetterof Requestfrom
the Host Government to support a proposed sub-project, which confirms that the proposed
project i s a highpriority for the country. This letter o f request also reaffirms the intent o f the host
government to provide a counter-guarantee to IDA. As with normal guarantee operations, a
government counter-guarantee from the host government i s required that indemnifies IDA in the
event that IDA is required to disburse hnds to guaranteed debt holders, or against any other
expenses or liabilities incurred by the World Bank. An Indemnity Agreement will therefore be
required between WAEMU member countries and IDA on a Sub-project basis. Under this
Agreement,the host governments would undertake to (i)          perform all their obligations under the
contracts; (ii) reimburse and indemnify IDA on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct, for any
payments made by IDA under the guarantee and for all liabilities and expenses incurred by IDA
with respect to the guarantee.

(iv)    MIGA Guarantees cannot be issued before receiving the Host Country Approval for any
proposed Sub-project which confirms that the proposed investment conforms to the laws,
regulations, objectives and development priorities o f the country.

(v)     For the purposes o f the provision o f AFD Guarantees, a counter-guarantee similar in
scope and features to the one required for the IDA Guarantee may be required AFD would
require an indemnity if it provides a partial risk guarantee to a proposed Sub-project. (Inthe case
that AFD provides a comprehensive guarantee to a proposed Sub-project the need for a
counter-guarantee would be assessed by AFD on a case by case basis). Underthis Agreement, the
host governments would undertake to: (i)       perform all their obligations under the contracts, and
(ii)reimburse and indemnifyAFD on demand for any payments made by AFD under the guarantee
and for all liabilities and expenses incurred by AFD with respect to the guarantee.

On a sub-project level, the private project company and the commercial lenders, if any, would
enter into various contractual obligations with: (i)   the Guarantor(s), (ii)Guarantee Applicant or
                                                                              a
the beneficiary o f the Guarantee(s), and (iii) an Agent Bank, on behalf o f the commercial lenders
to the Sub-project.

Guarantee Related Charges

IDA Guarantee Fees paid bv the Private Sector
In compliance with the IDA guarantee charges currently in effect, IDA would charge the
following fees to the private sector for the provision o f its guarantees. Each sub-project will be
treated as an individual guarantee provided by IDA. The following fees would be charged directly
by IDA to the private sector on every sub-project Guarantee providedby IDA.
   0    Initiation fee: a fee o f 15 bps o f the IDA guaranteed amount for each o f the sub-project
        under the facility. This fee would be paid at the time o f approval o f each Sub-project by
        IDA.
   0    Processingfee: a fee o f 50 bps o f the IDA guaranteed amount for each o f the sub-project
        under the facility. This fee would be used to cover the cost o f extemal consultants and
        out o f pocket expenses that IDA incurs for the sub-project. The fee would be paid at the



                                                  - 87 -

        time o f the approval of each sub-project by IDA.
   0    Standbyfee: an annual fee o f 25 bps charged on the undisbursedamount o f the guaranteed
        loan to be paid in advance to IDA on a semi-annual basis The first installment would be
        payable upon the date o f effectiveness or 60 days from signing o f the individual sub
        project.
   0    Guaranteefee: an annual fee o f 75 bps charged on the disbursedamount o f the guaranteed
        loan to be paid inadvance to IDA on a semi-annual basis.

Ifthe private sector fails to depositthe Standby andGuarantee fees inthe IDAAccount (as noted
in the Guarantee Agreement), IDA'Sguarantee with respect to the particular sub-project will
automatically lapse.

IDA Guarantees-related Compensation to BOAD
For its support, BOADwill charge a fee o f 15 basis points (bp) per annum on the IDA guaranteed
amount to the private sector. The IDA Guarantee Agreement would include a clause that provides
for this fee to be directly transferred to BOAD accounts ("BOAD Compensation Clause", as
noted in the relevant Guarantee Agreement). This fee would be used to defray the cost o f
administering the facility by BOAD. The underlying costs would include the marketing and
operating costs related to the facility and the cost o f employing staff and consultants to ensure
that individual transactions comply with environmental and social safeguard policies noted herein.

IDA will review BOAD's role in administering the facility on a regular basis. If it is determined
that BOAD i s not fulfilling it's obligations as established inthe GFA and inthis Guidebook, IDA
at its sole discretion, may decide not to include the BOAD Compensation Clause in future
Sub-projects.

MIGA Guarantee Charaespaid bv the Private Sector
In accordance with MIGA's policies, MIGA will charge the investor the following fees and
premiums:
   0    Application fee: a fee o f US$5,000 will be charged to process a sub-project.       If the
        application results in a guarantee being offered and accepted, the fee will be credited
        against the first year's premium charged by MIGA. If MIGA declines to offer coverage
        the fee will be refunded. IfMIGA offers to provide a guarantee and the applicant declines
        the offer, the fee will not be refunded.
   0    Processing fee: for sub-projects that are environmentally sensitive, or which have
        technically complex structures that require the retention o f outside advisors by MIGA,
        MIGA charges a processing fee o f US$25,000.
   0    Guarantee premium: MIGA'spremiumrates are decided on a per project basis, according
        to the specific risks to be guaranteed by MIGA. As per its Operational Regulations,
        MIGA charges between30 and 150 basis points per risk

MIGA Guarantees-related Compensation to BOAD
In consideration of the assistance provided to MIGA by BOAD in administering the facility,
MIGA will pay BOADa fee consisting of ten percent o f the annual premium,up to a maximum of
US$50,000 per annum, and for the maximum period o f ten years, paid by the investor to MIGA



                                                 - a8 -

for Sub-projects identified by BOAD for processing, and for which a contract of guarantee is
signed.
MIGA will reviewBOAD'srole inadministeringthe facility on a regular basis. MIGA may end at
any time and at its sole discretion the payment of a Fee for future Sub-projects, if BOAD's
obligations,as establishedinthe GFA andinthis Guidebook are notmet.




                                           - 89 -

      Additional Annex 12: Comparison of MIGA and IDNIBRD Safeguard Policies

              AFRICA: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Bank and MIGA Management have decided that it i s appropriate that MIGA's environmental
guidelines and environmental and social safeguard policies will be applicable to the BOAD
Guarantees Facility. MIGA has its own Board-approved versions o f the safeguard policies which
reflect MIGA's role as an insurer and its business relationship with private sector clients. The
Bank has it own safeguard policies oriented toward the Bank's primary role in working with
public sector borrowers. The purpose o f this annex i s to briefly summarize how MIGA's
environmental guidelines and environmental and social safeguard policies compare to those o f the
IBRD/IDA.

EnvironmentalGuidelines

MIGA's environmental guidelines consist o f the World Bank's environmental guidelines as
established in the World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, and IFC's
interim guidelines for those industrial sectors not yet included in the Bank's Pollution Prevention
and Abatement Handbook. Inthe absence o f specific host country laws and regulations, or World
Bank or IFC interim environmental guidelines, MIGA may apply other internationally recognized
environmental standards or best management practices to the project.

Overall, there is no significant difference betweenBank and MIGA environmental guidelines, with
the exception that MIGA also makes use o f IFC's interimenvironmental guidelines.

EnvironmentalAssessment Policy

In 1999, MIGA's Board and MIGA Management determined to use IFC's version of the
Environmental Assessment         policy   (OP 4.01) as a template for a MIGA version
(MIGA/R99-23/Rev.),      but to incorporate the following key modifications in MIGA's
Environmental Assessment and Disclosure Policies to reflect the Agency's unique operating
environment:

   0    Inrecognition of the fact that MIGA neither lends nor invests and does not use financial
        intermediaries for this purpose, MIGA would not adopt a separate FIcategory.

   0    To conform to standard insurance industry practice, MIGA's approach to environmental
        review o f a project and the sponsor's implementation o f contractual requirements would
        continue to be predicated heavily on warranties and representations, but with provisions
        for appropriate measures for more extensive due diligence inthe case o f sensitive projects.

   0    Inkeepingwith the intention o fits founders and the Convention to not adopt a framework
        o f Operational Policies (OPs), MIGA would continue to operate under its Operational
        Regulations (OR). The Environmental Assessment and Disclosure Policies would be
        annexed to the OR, and separate OPs for the remaining, issue-specific safeguard policies
        (e.g., resettlement) were not anticipated.



                                                - 90 -

        Inrecognitionthat MIGA's clients often are either lenders or minority equityholders of an
        investment, and that MIGA typically i s approached well after an EIA has been prepared in
        accordance with host country requirements and approved by host country authorities,
        MIGA's EA policy allows more flexibility in the process of EIA preparation and
        consultation, and focuses greater attention on the quality o f the outcome o f the EIA
        process.
        Although disclosure by MIGA o f environmental information for sensitive (i.e., Category
        A) projects would occur at least 60 days prior to Board consideration (consonant with
        IFC practice), information on Category B projects would not be disclosed until after
        guarantees were issued.

The latter modificationwas the result o f many discussions betweenthe Board and MIGA.

Following a two-year pilot period, the Board, in May 2002 (MIGA/R2002/-001 l),        confirmed its
decision to maintain MIGA's Environmental Assessment and Disclosure Policy as approved in
1999. Overall, MIGA's Environmental Assessment Policy (EA Policy) differs from the Bank's in
providing more flexibility inthe process, but still providing a valuable tool inensuring an outcome
o f an environmentally and socially sound project.

Issue-Specific Safeguard Policies

With Board approval inMay 2002, Management adopted, on an interimbasis, MIGA versions of
the Safeguard Policies that are consistent with the issue-specific Safeguard Policies that the IFC
has thus far adopted for private sector investments (Le., Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Forestry, and Projects on International Waterways), and with the "do no harm" approach o f the
Bank's versions of the OPs for those Safeguard Policies that IFC still had not adapted for private
sector investments (Le., Involuntary Resettlement, Indigenous Peoples, Cultural Property, and
Safety o f Dams).

With the exception o f the forests safeguard policy, significant congruence in text exists between
MIGA's Board-approved versions, IFC's already adopted versions, and the current IBRD's
versions o f the issue-specific environmental Safeguard Policies. This i s to be expected because
they address specific environmental issues and goals in which the roles o f private sector and
public sector have substantial commonality. The exception o f the Forests safeguard policy i s
because the Bank has recently adopted a significantly different version which is much broader in
its scope o f coverage. Recognizing the need for harmonization within the World Bank Group,
MIGA anticipates that its staff will work with IFC counterparts in revising their respective
Forestry policies. Once this effort is completed, MIGA subsequently would bring its revised
policy to the Board for discussion and approval, since it could represent a major change in the
policy content. Untilthen, however, MIGA's Forestry policy closely corresponds to the IFC's. In
practice, MIGA staff view MIGA's current Natural Habitats Policy as fully capable o f addressing
almost all o f the concerns currently addressed by the Bank's new Forests Policy.

With respect to issue-specific social safeguard policies, there are significant differences in the



                                                -91 -

respective roles o f public institutions (Le., governments) and private sector investors. Even
between MIGA and the IFC there are significant differences in the agencies' business roles that
might be reflected in their respective versions of the social Safeguard Policies (once the latter
institution completes its adaptation process). MIGA, for example, neither lends nor invests its
own money, it does not become involved in project appraisal or design, and (as confirmed by a
recent CAO report) typically becomes involved late in project design and often remains "at a
distance from the implementing parties." Therefore, considerable care was taken by MIGA, in
development o f its own interim versions o f the social Safeguard Policies, to remain in harmony
with the basic principles o fthe IBRDversions, inparticular to "do no harm," while seekingto find
the right balance between MIGA's role as a investment insurer, and as a development institution
and member o f the World Bank Group. A detailed discussion o f this effort and what was achieved
was presented to the Board (MIGA/R2002-001 l), with a detailed comparative matrix
(MIGA/R2002-001 Ul), as part o f the Board review and approval process in May 2002.

Giventhe private sector, project-focus o f MIGA business, application o f its Safeguard Policies is
focused on impact avoidance, minimization, and mitigation along the lines o f the principle o f
proportionality (particularly with respect to the social SafeguardPolicies) when feasible, and links
impacts and benefits/compensation to the findings o f the EA. Thus, MIGA has been applying, and
proposes to continue to apply, an "integrated" approach to the Safeguard Policies, positioningthe
EA process (and the EA Policy) as a key "integrator." In this approach, the Safeguard Policies
become the norms by which one evaluates if the proposed mitigatiordcompensation measures
identified inthe project's Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) are reasonable and acceptable.
The minimumstandard i s that the project must do no harm to directly affected parties.

This approach to integrating MIGA's issues-specific Safeguard Policies and MIGA's
environmental guidelines through the EA process (and under the umbrella o f the EA Policy) i s
somewhat different from the Bank's approach, which has viewed the Safeguard Policies as
stand-alone policies. This approach by MIGA was identifiedby the DGO in the May 2002 Board
discussion o f MIGA's proposed policies, as a model that may be worthy o f the Bank's fiture
consideration.




                                                 - 92 -

