                                      DATA SHEET                                      44131
  WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND MONETARYUNIONCAPITAL MARKET
                              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




Date: M a y 27,2008                            Task Team Leader: DjibrillaA. Issa
Country: WAEMU                                 Sector Manager: Iradj Alikhani
Project Name: WAEMU- Capital Market            Sector Director: Marilou J. Uy
Development Project (Cr. 3863-WAF)             Country Director: Mark Tomlinson
Project ID:PO74525                             Environmentalcategory: F
Borrower: Banque OuestAfricaine de De'veloppement(BOAD)
-Revisedestimated
Responsible agency: Banque OuestAfricaine de De'veloppement(BOAD)
                    IDA fund disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
                                          1__1




Current closing date: September 30, 2009
Revisedclosing date: September 30, 2011
Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved         X
RVP approved           -

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?        Yes IC_No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                  Yes-    No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                  Yes _LL No

Revisedproject development objective/outcomes: There is no change in the PDO
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o Ifso, click hereto


                      Source                          Local       Foreign   I     Total
Borrower                                                 54.55         0.00 1        54.55
IDA                                                       2.81        93.58          96.39
Others                                                  5.1148       8.3452          13.46
  Canadian International Development Agency               1.18         1.92          3.10
  Agence Franqaise de De'veloppement                      2.81         4.59          7.40
  French Ministry of ForeignAffairs                       1.12         1.84          2.96
Local sources from borrowing countries                    7.45        12.15          19.60
Total                                                    69.92       114.08        184.00


  PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURING OF THE WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND
     MONETARY UNION CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                       (CR. 3863 WAF)

                                     PROJECTPAPER

A.      INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce
changes to the West Africa Capital Market Development Project, (Cr. 3863-WAF),
PO74525 (the "Project") for the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).

2.      The Project Development Objective (PDO), which remains unchanged, is to
develop the capital markets in the WAEMU region and mobilize public and private
financing for the region's infrastructure development. Specifically, the project would
assist in :

(0      Strengthening the regulatory framework for capital market operations and build
        the capacity of regional institutions involved inthe capital markets including the
        West African Development Bank (BOAD), the regulator of the regional capital
        market (Conseil Rdgional de 1'Epargne Publique et des Marche`s Financiers-
        CREPMF), the stock exchange (Bourse Re`gionale des Valeurs MobiliBres-
        BRVM) andthe WAEMU Commission;

(ii) Providing medium and long-term finance for a broad spectrum of public
        infrastructure projects, which would contribute to physical integration among the
        WAEMU countries; and

(iii) Providingpoliticalandcommercialriskmitigationinstrumentstoenableprivate
        sector to raise longer-term commercial resources to finance small and medium-
        sized infrastructure projects in WAEMU countries.

B.      BACKGROUND AND REASONSFOR RESTRUCTURING
3.      The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was presented to the Board of Directors
on February 26, 2004. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between the
International Development Association (IDA) and BOAD was signed on April 24, 2004
and became effective on July 29,2005, more than one year later, due to the complexity o f
the projectandthe needfor the eight countries to ratify the documents.

4.      Four donors, [(IDA, MIGA, Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) and
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)] are involved in the project.
Although the West African Development Bank (BOAD) i s the Borrower, there are five
beneficiaries o f the Project: BOAD, the regulator o f the regional capital market (Conseil
Re`gional de 1'Epargne Publique et des Marche`s Financiers-CREPMF), the regional
stock exchange (Bourse Re`gionale des Valeurs MobiliBres- BRVM) and the WAEMU
Commission. Overall management responsibility o f the project, including procurement,
financial management and reporting rests with BOAD.




                                              1

 5.      The existingproject is composed of three components:

 (9      Component A: a technical assistance component (IDA finances US$6.4 millions,
         CIDA finances CAD3.lmillions and AFD finances Euros 7millions);

(ii) ComponentB:aLineofCredit(US$89million) forthefinancingofroadsub-
         projects; and

(iii) ComponentC:aGuaranteeFacility(totalamountofUS$227.25millionofwhich
         IDA finances US$70 million, MIGA finances US$70 million and AFD finances
        US$87.25 million).

6.       From the beginning, the project was fraught with difficulties. It took over a year
for the project to become effective. There was a cross-conditionality between the
development credit agreement and the guarantee facility agreement; the latter had to be
ratified by the eight Parliaments with a legal opinion from the eight Supreme Courts,
before the whole project could become effective. An amendment to the guarantee facility
agreement was signed by the eight ministers o f finance that would enable the guarantee
facility agreement to be ratified by only four o f the member countries for effectiveness.
Nevertheless, effectiveness was reached just prior to the expiration date o f the second
extension.

7.     . The overall rating o f the project remained moderately satisfactory until problems
with the Line o f Credit (LOC) were raised, and then it was downgraded.

8.      The Technical Assistance under Component A was put into motion
immediately upon effectiveness. Three donors are funding the Technical Assistance (TA)
component: IDA, AFD and the Canadian CIDA. The latter two are mainly funding the
TA for the development of capital market activities; IRA is funding technical assistance
to BOAD. The IDA-funded TA had a late start, but i s progressing well, thus the slow
disbursementrate. It supports major reforms ofthe regional capital market and an internal
strengthening o f BOAD. The measures related to the development of the regional
financial market include but are not limited to: (i) technical assistance for improving the
regulatory framework for the equity and bond markets, including disclosure of
regulations for companies to promote transparency among market players; (ii)
introducing a credit rating system for issuers; (iii)defining and implementing new
guidelines for institutions involved in the regional capital markets, including the
definition o f new prudential norms, accounting systems in compliance with international
standards; (iv) defining a code o f conduct for the Conseil Rkgional de I'Epargne
Publiqzie et des marches Financiers (CREPMF); (v) developing a legal framework for
mortgage refinancing and securitization; and (vi) harmonizing the tax regimes across the
region for medium-term bonds and other financial or capital market instruments. The
implementationo f these activities is expected to result in a more efficient regional capital
market with improved access to financial services at a lower cost. Technical assistance
provided to BOAD will help improve its management and business process, particularly
in the areas of assetshiability management, project evaluation, and human resource
management. Also, the TA to BOAD includes the design and implementation of an
action plan for BOAD to be rated by an international rating agency. For the TA

                                              2

component, there are no major issues and progress so far suggests that the component is
on track to meet its PDO. Nevertheless, impact will be monitored and measured and
actual or emerging risks, such as the political situation in C8te d'Ivoire will be monitored
and factored in, moving forward.

9.       The Line of Credit (LOC) under Component B: Solely funded by IDA, the
LOC is to be used to finance construction or rehabilitation o f regionally integrating roads.
Duringproject appraisal, a pipeline o f sub-projects was presented to IDA; all sub-projects
were to be co-funded with other financiers, such as the African Development Bank
(AfDB). At first, ten road projects were submitted to IDA and four were approved by
IDA road and environment specialists. While the processing o fthese sub-projects seemed
to be progressing satisfactorily, a step-by-step procurement review revealed that the sub-
projects were following AfDB procurement rules (the lead co-financier) which were not
fully compatible with IDA rules. A procurement review o f other sub-projects revealed
that even when B O A R was the lead financier, IDA procurement procedures were not
fully adhered to. Consequently, there has beenno disbursement on the line o f credit.

10.      The Guarantee Facility under Component C aims to help stimulate private
investment in small and medium infrastructure and privatization projects in WAEMU
member countries by mitigating critical risks o f government performance, which
currently hold the interest o f private investors. The facility was designed to use BOAD as
intermediary in the region to identify and process private infrastructure projects in need
o f risk mitigation instruments to be provided by IDA, MIGA and AFD, using their own
balance sheet. Two years after project effectiveness, no guarantee has been issued.
Almost from the time o f effectiveness, the guarantee facility was plagued by problems. A
Quality at Entry Review (QER) severely questioned the choice o f B O A D to house this
facility and the analysis o f the demand for guarantees. Experience has shown that BOAD
does not have the capacity to market the facility and analyze the requests for guarantees.
To remedy this situation, MIGA provided technical assistance to assist the.B O A D team
and the three guarantors were committed to provide training. Nevertheless, while
reaffirming the importance o f the guarantee instrument to develop both financial markets
and infrastructure projects, it was agreed to restructure this component as the approach
taken by the donors heretofore did not produce the expected results.

11.      As a result o f the above-mentioned issues and weak performance o f the project,
the IDA team recommends that the project be restructured. However, as this is a multi-
donor project, it was agreed that all donors must agree on any restructuring plan,
regardless o f what they finance.

12.      Extensive consultations held with donors, the beneficiaries, including the Council
o f Ministers o f the eight WAEMU member countries led to the design o f a restructuring
plan. The plan has been reviewed and was approved by the Regional Council o f Ministers
inDecember 2007 (see the attached decision ofthe WAEMUCouncil ofMinisters).




                                               3

C.      PROPOSEDCHANGES
 13.    Three changes are proposed:

        (a) Expand the eligibility criteria o f the 1,OC under Component B to (i)include
            other infrastructure projects in addition to roads; (ii) increase the ceiling o f
            sub-projects be funded under the line o f credit from US$15 million to US$20
            million equivalent; and (iii)include cross-border projects related to food
            security.

        (b) Cancel the guarantee facility under Component C; and

        (c) Extend the credit closing date by two years from September 30, 2009 to
            September 30, 2011 and the IDA managed CIDA trust fund by two years to
            March 31,2010.

        The LOC would be modified to be more in line with market demands. The
            ceiling limit to finance individualprojects will be raised to US$20 million and
            the eligibility criteria will be expanded to include non-road integrating
            infrastructure projects (such as telecoms, energy etc.) and cross-border
            projects related to food security.

14.     The Guarantee Component: The restructuring o f this component would consist
o f (i)cancelling the guarantee facility; (ii)signing a Memorandum o f Understanding
(MOU) between MIGA and BOAD whereby the former would analyze projects presented
by BOAD to provide guarantees based on its own Guidelines and Procedures; and (iii)
strengthening BOAD's capacity inrisk mitigationthrough technical assistance that would
allow B O A D to develop its own guarantee product when its balance sheet can bear it.
AFD and IDA will continue to provide the technical assistance to BOAD. Inparticular,
two staff from BOAD will be trained inWashington, D.C. on risk mitigation. BOAD will
hire two additional staff and a special unit responsible for developing guarantees will be
set up.

15.    Technical Assistance component:There are no major changes proposed for this
component as it i s proceeding satisfactorily. However, the results framework has been
reviewed and consolidated to be more outcomehmpact oriented.

16.    ClosingDate: The project is scheduledto close on September 30,2009.         Closure
o f the project as scheduled will undermine results achieved so far in the technical
assistance component. In addition, the pipeline o f new sub projects identified by B O A D
and reviewed by IDA to be funded under the line o f credit will not be fully implemented.
Also, as the Guarantee component has been redesigned to focus more on the provision o f
TA to BOAD to develop its capacity and diversify its line o f business, its full
implementation will require more time. The team recommends that the closing date o f the
project be extended from September 30, 2009 to September 30, 2011. In addition, the
CIDA Trust Fundthat finance part o fthe TA component will be extended by two years to
March 31,2010.



                                              4

17.     Procurement: Until now, the procurement Guidelines applicable to the project
are those reviewedinJanuary 1999 (for goods and works) and May 2002 (for Consultants
services). The threshold for shopping procurement method is low, not appropriate and
needs to be revised in line with the project activities. In line with the new changes, the
Schedule 3 o f Credit Agreement would be revised to include the following changes: (a)
adopting the new procurement Guidelines o f May 2004, revised in October 2006; and (b)
increasing from US$20,000 to US$50,000 equivalent per contract, the threshold for
procurement using the shopping method. This latter change will help avoid delays in
procuring readily available standard goods. The use of new Guidelines will introduce
wider eligibility, new provisions due to procurement harmonization and the improved
provisions on fraud and corruption. All other procurement procedures related to Cr. 3863-
WAF will remainunchanged.

18.     Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements: Pursuant to the
proposed restructuring, all procedures would remainthe same.

19.     Environmental Impact: The proposed changes do not raise the environmental
category o f the project nor trigger new safeguard policies. BOAD has a detailed
Environmental Operations Manual which covers safeguard policies and how they relate
to the transactions/projects being covered by projects financed by BOAD. The
Environment Operations Manual is current and includes standard guidelines and
procedures for members and provides detailed guidance for BOAD staff. This manual
remains inforce.

D.      ANALYSIS
20.     BOAD has played a leading role in extending project finance in its member
countries and i s the largest provider o f medium and long-term financing in the sub-
region. It i s the primary non-sovereign debt issuing institution, and the defacto reference
issuer in the regional financial market. It has previous experience with IDA financed
projects which have been successfully implemented. A more streamlined structure o f the
project which is more inline with market demands will help facilitate implementation.

21.     Although BOAD has developed a good knowledge o f regional markets, sub-
regional economic conditions, and its clients, it lacks sufficient technical slcills inthe area
o f resource mobilization, project preparation and assessment, efficient information and
analytical accounting systems, internal controls and performance-based personnel
management. In addition, BOAD has traditionally focused its financing on the public
sector. Until recently, BOAD's procedures, organization, and in particular, its staff was
more suited for public sector activities. However, since the early 1990s with the CFAF
devaluation in 1994, BOAD has been devoting more and more o f its operations to the
private sector, to keep up with the changing economic situation.

22.     The World Bank Group has acted as a catalyst; it was instrumental in bringing
together significant offers o f co-financing from external and internal sources. It has
equally taken the lead in the dialogue with BOAD to initiate the proposed restructuring;
BOAD proposed the restructuring to the WAEMU Council o f Ministers, endorsing the
proposal and highlightingthe benefits to the streamlined program.




                                             5

E.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES
23.     The proposed restructuring will help on several fronts to reach the project
expected outcomes as agreed duringproject preparation and revised as per the annex I.

24.     Expanding the eligibility criteriafor projectfinancing under the line of credit will
have two advantages: (i)    bringing the program more in line with market demand by
expanding the eligibility criteria of the credit line to encompass other non-road
infrastructure sub-projects; and (ii)increasing the opportunity for regional integration
through the financing of other non-road infrastructure projects.

25.     By extending the closing date by two years, there will be sufficient time to fidly
implementthe reforms and successfully complete the project activities and to meet their
development objectives. It is anticipated that demand for financing may surpass available
funding. It was agreed that if the restructuring was completed and the IDA credit was
extended, CIDA would also extendthe closing date of its trust fund to enable BOAD to
complete the technical assistanceprogram.

26.     By restructuring the guaranteefacility, MIGA will be able to provide guarantee to
larger infrastructure projects presented by BOAD. Under the current structure, the facility
can only fund a maximum of US$20 million while without the facility MIGA and BOAD
are processing a deal for almost US,$70 million. Also, the TA to be provided on risk
mitigation will allow BOAD to move away from its traditional focus on financing public
projects and help BOAD finance private infrastructure projects through diverse financing
options.

F.      BENEFITSAND RISKS
27.     The benefits ofthe proposed restructuring outweighthe risks.

28.     With respect to the LOC, by opening the eligibility criteria, there will be more
opportunities for regional integration.

29.     By cancelling the Guarantee Facility and signing an MOU between BOAD and
MIGA, larger projects can be guaranteed. Under the current agreement, projects that
could benefit from the IDA and MIGA risk mitigation coverage must be o f small or
medium size and their total cost must not exceed US$50 million and the guarantee to be
issued by IDA and MIGA can not exceed US$20 million and US$15 millionrespectively.
In addition, the component will focus on TA in such a way that BOAD will be able to
broaden its traditional focus on the financing o f public projects to include private
investment, and expand the scope of its services beyond the public sector. Through the
TA to be funded by AFD, the BOAD team will receive technical assistance and training
on how to structure and review private projects. Over time, this will enable BOAD to
provide a wider variety of products and finance options than those that are currently
available inthe region. There will be a more focused transfer of skills through "on the job
training" o f BOAD staff.

30.     In terms of risks, factors that could negatively affect the reform during the
extension period and the sustainability include: (i)lack o f institutional capacity to
effectively identify policy constraints and implement reforms necessary for the
establishment and functioning o f the bond and equity markets; (ii)political and social

                                             6

instability in Cote d'Ivoire fails to be resolved leading to economic uncertainties and
affecting the functioning o f regional markets and institutions; (iii)risk that the LOC
continues to have procurement problems, especially the lack o f adequate resources and
coordination between the various technical departments in the World Bank Group
(Finance    and Private Sector Development (AFTFP),            Transport,   Environment,
Procurement) and the partners involved inthe project (CIDA, AFD, MIGA and IDA).

3 1.   With regard to the weak institutional capacity, technical assistance provided by
the project will help identify key areas of reform and alleviate the risk. Moreover, the
consultations on the restructuring process and its approval by WAEMU Council o f
Ministers will help ensure understanding o f the role of the capital market in the region,
and has shown the commitment to implement the program. The Africa Department of
Regional Integration (AFCRI) will provide adequate resources for implementation
support and to have relevant technical staff especially for procurement, Financial
Management. etc.




                                            7


Q
3

W
h

0
u-
a
2                     3x
-                     *

3
3
0
N
     0m  0 W




    0
    d




Q\
0
0
N


      m
           d
           m
-     W




00
0
0
N


      0    00
      W    rn




                9h

0
i

