                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2565



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-38630 TF-55074)



                                   ON A CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR67 MILLION (US$96.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

          BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)

                                        FOR A

        WEST AFRICA ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION (WAEMU)
               CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                 February 28, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Department
Country Department AFCW3
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2012)

                        Currency Unit = FCFA
                       US$ 1.00 = 496.7 FCFA
                       US$ 1.00 = 0.66014 SDR


                            FISCAL YEAR

                       January 1 - December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACDI:     Agence Canadienne de Développement International
AFD:      Agence Française de Développement (French Agency for Development)
AfDB:     African Development Bank
BCEAO:    Banque Centrale des Etats de 1 Afrique de L’Ouest
BIDC:     Bank for Investment and Development (ECOWAS)
BOAD:     Banque Ouest-Africaine de Développement
BRVM:     Bourse Régionale des Valeurs Mobilières (Regional Stock Exchange)
CAS:      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF:     Communauté Financière Africaine Franc (African Financial
          Community Franc)
CIDA:     Canadian International Development Agency
CREPMF:   Conseil Régional de l’Epargne publique et des Marches Financiers
          (Regional Council for Public Savings and Financial Markets)
CRRH:     Caisse Régionale de Refinancement Hypothécaire (Regional Mortgage
          Refinancing Institution)
DCA:      Development Credit Agreement
ECOWAS:   Economic Community of West African States
EGDD:     BOAD Safeguards Unit
GED:      Gestion Electronique des Données (Automated Data Management
          System)
IASC:     International Association for Securities Commissions
IBRD:     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR:      Implementation Completion and Results
IDA:      International Development Association
IFC:      International Finance Corporation
IFRS:     International Financial Reporting Standard
ISR:        Implementation Status Reports
LOC:        Line of Credit
M&E:        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIGA:       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOU:        Memorandum of Understanding
NEPAD:      New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO:        Non-Governmental Organization
O&M:        Operation and Maintenance
PAD:        Project Appraisal Document
PCU:        Project Coordination Unit
PDO:        Project Development Objectives
PPIAF:      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPP:        Public-Private Partnerships
QAE:        Quality at Entry
QER:        Quality Enhancement Review
RIAS:       Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
SGI:        Market Intermediaries
SME:        Small and medium enterprises
TA:         Technical Assistance
TTL:        Task Team Leader
WAEMU:      West Africa Economic and Monetary Union




                         Vice President   :   Makhtar Diop
     Director, Strategy and Operations    :   Colin Bruce
                       Sector Manager     :   Paul Noumba Um
                  Project Team Leader     :   Djibrilla Amadou Issa
                     ICR Team Leader      :   Magueye Dia
                    WEST AFRICA ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION
                                     WAEMU

                         CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                         CONTENTS

A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... vi
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................. vi
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................... vii


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................ 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................... 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .............. 24


Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................... 25
Annex 2 Outputs by Component....................................................................................... 26
Annex 3 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.................. 29
Annex 4 Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................... 31
Annex 5 List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................... 36

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                      WAEMU Capital
Country:             Africa                 Project Name:             Market Development
                                                                      Project
Project ID:          P074525                L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38630,TF-55074
ICR Date:            02/28/2013             ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                      Banque Ouest
                                                                      Africaine de
Lending Instrument: FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      Développement
                                                                      BOAD
Original Total
                      XDR 67.00M         Disbursed Amount: XDR 65.64M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       XDR 67.00M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies: Banque Ouest-Africaine de Développement
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Agence Française de Développement
Canadian International Development Agency
France: Ministry of Foreign Affairs

B. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised / Actual
    Process            Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept
                    01/23/2002       Effectiveness:      07/29/2005         07/29/2005
Review:
Appraisal:          06/04/2003     Restructuring(s):                        06/18/2008
                                      Mid-term
Approval:           02/26/2004                             01/29/08         11/30/2010
                                       Review:
                                       Closing:          09/30/2009         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                Ratings          Borrower                       Ratings
                                                                          Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory    Government:
                                                                          Satisfactory
Quality of                 Moderately       Implementing                  Moderately
Supervision:              Unsatisfactory    Agency/Agencies:              Satisfactory
Overall Bank               Moderately       Overall Borrower              Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory    Performance:                  Satisfactory


                                           i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                       Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
                                        Quality at Entry
 Potential Problem
                                        (QEA): Focused on
Project at any time           Yes                                           None
                                        the Guarantee
(Yes/No):
                                        facility
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                              Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Capital markets                                               58                 58
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                      42                 42

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Private Sector Development                               33                  33
Regional integration                                           67                  67

E. Bank Staff
Positions            At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:      Makhtar Diop                         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Colin Bruce                          Nils O. Tcheyan
Sector Manager:      Paul Noumba Um                       Gerard A. Byam
Project Team Leader: Djibrilla Adamou Issa                Noel K. Tshiani
ICR Team Leader:     Magueye Dia
ICR Primary Author: Magueye Dia

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

According to the PAD, the principal objective of the project was to develop the capital
markets in the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) region, and
mobilize public and private financing for the region's infrastructure development. The
project is expected to contribute to the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU) countries' efforts to achieve sustainable regional economic growth through
the provision of efficient, region-wide infrastructure services and greater financial market
integration. The Development Credit Agreement dated April 24, 2004, stated that the
objectives of the Project were to assist the Borrower in developing the UEMOA capital
market and in mobilizing public and private financing for the infrastructure development
in such region. While there are minor differences between the two, the DCA focused on
support towards developing capital market, unlike the PAD statement of outright aim to
develop capital markets.
                                             ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Number of companies issuing bonds in the regional market   (due to new rules
Indicator 1:
                   and fee structure
Value
(quantitative or              25                    50                               48
qualitative)
Date achieved         December 31, 2007         May 31, 2012                    June 30, 2012
                                                  96% of target met
Comments
                   This target has been nearly achieved. Many firms including from CI have
(incl. %
                   raised capital in the regional bond market. Four governments now regularity
achievement)
                   issue bonds
                   Number of companies listed in the regional stock market (due to new rules and
Indicator 2:
                   fee structure)
Value
(quantitative or              38                    50                               39
qualitative)
                                                December 31,
Date achieved         December 31, 2007                                         June 30, 2010
                                                    2010
Comments                                           Target not met
(incl. %           This indicator has not progressed much. Although the market has become more
achievement)       regional with companies from other countries listed.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                      Original Target Formally
                                                                  Actual Value Achieved
                                        Values (from      Revised
   Indicator      Baseline Value                                    at Completion or
                                           approval       Target
                                                                      Target Years
                                        documents)        Values
              BOAD publicly issues at least CFAF 10 billion bond per year in the regional
Indicator 1:
              capital market in 2004 and thereafter.
Value
(quantitative                          CFAF 10 billion
              CFAF 7 billion in 2004                                 CFAF 43 billion
or                                          per year
qualitative)
Date achieved December 31, 2004         May 31, 2012                  June 30, 2012
Comments
(incl. %                                  430% of target achieved
achievement)



                                             iii
                                           Original Target Formally
                                                                          Actual Value Achieved
                                             Values (from      Revised
  Indicator          Baseline Value                                          at Completion or
                                               approval        Target
                                                                               Target Years
                                              documents)       Values
                From the mid-term review, CREMPF shall inspect at least once a year the
Indicator 2:
                Commercial Financial Intermediaries, BRVM and DC/BR.
Value                                                                       As of December 31,
                                            Inspections are
(quantitative                                                               2012, 86 per cent of
                Inspections are far apart       regularly
or                                                                        planned inspections was
                                               conducted
qualitative)                                                                    undertaken.
Date achieved     December 31, 2012          May 31, 2012                      June 30, 2012
                Target was nearly met. Because of important changes at the regional institutions,
Comments
                some missions could not take place. It is important to note that number of
(incl. %
                inspections was on an upward trend over the last three years and reached 111 per
achievement)
                cent of project target in 2011.
Indicator 3 :   BOAD is rated by international rating agencies by 2010
                                            BOAD is rated
Value
                                           and improves by
(quantitative       BOAD has been
                                              two notches                   BOAD still not rated
or                    shadow rated
                                              compared to
qualitative)
                                             shadow rating
Date achieved     December 31, 2007          May 31, 2012                      June 30, 2012
                                                    Target not met
Comments
                BOAD has prepared a memo to request rating. It will be submitted to rating
                agencies in 2013.
                Definition of and compliance with a prudential framework by BOAD, in line
Indicator 4:
                with internationally accepted best practices.
                                                                              Board of BOAD
Value                                                         New rules      adopted new rules,
                      No rules and
(quantitative                                               and standards including IFRS in 2009.
                internationally accepted
or                                                           defined and BOARD 2010 and 2011
                  standards in BOAD.
qualitative)                                                implemented. accounts comply with
                                                                               the new rules.
                                                               May 31,
Date achieved     December 31, 2007                                            June 30, 2012
                                                                2012
Comments
(incl. %                                          Target met
achievement)




                                            iv
                                           Original Target Formally
                                                                           Actual Value Achieved
                                            Values (from         Revised
  Indicator          Baseline Value                                             at Completion or
                                               approval          Target
                                                                                  Target Years
                                             documents)          Values
                Timely approval and adoption by monetary authorities of new rules and
Indicator 5:    regulations for credit ratings in relation to the removal and substantial relaxation
                of bank guarantee requirements.
                                                                             Guarantee requirement
                                                                              rule repealed and new
                                           Rating system is                    disclosure and rating
Value
                   100% guarantee is         in effect and                 based system adopted in
(quantitative
                    required for bond          guarantee                     Nov 2009. Two rating
or
                        issuance.            requirement                     agencies licensed, IFC,
qualitative)
                                               repealed.                         AFD and Shleter
                                                                              Afrique issued bonds
                                                                            using the rating system.
Date achieved       October 31, 2007        May 31, 2012                          June 30, 2012
Comments                                             Target Met
(incl. %        The resources have been used to finance public infrastructure and private sector
achievement)    projects.
                Timely approval and adoption by the UEMOA Commission of harmonized taxes
Indicator 6:
                regimes on financial products.
Value              Taxes on financial         New taxes                         Tax harmonization
(quantitative         products not              regime                             approved and
or                 harmonized across implemented by                         implemented in 6 of the
qualitative)            countries.          all countries.                          8 countries.
Date achieved     December 31, 2007         May 31, 2012                          June 30, 2012
                                                     Target met
Comments
                The law has been adopted by the regional council of ministers in Nov 2009, each
(incl. %
                country has now to enact incorporate the law into its domestic legislation and
achievement)
                have it approved by parliament. So far 6 of the 8 countries have done so.
                Amount of Line of Credit disbursed to regional infrastructures projects (in
Indicator 7 :
                compliance with IDA fiduciary system).
Value
(quantitative No disbursement on the
                                        100%                                        100%
or                line of credit.
qualitative)
Date achieved December 31, 2007      May 31, 2012                               June 30, 2012
Comments
(incl. %                              Target met and exceeded
achievement)




                                              v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                             Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                            DO                          IP           Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     05/27/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory             0.00
  2     12/09/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory             0.00
  3     12/14/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory             0.00
  4     06/30/2005    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       0.00
  5     12/21/2005    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       0.00
  6     06/29/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       0.39
  7     12/31/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       0.65
  8     06/20/2007       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory             0.65
  9     12/14/2007       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory             1.23
 10     06/26/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       1.59
 11     12/31/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       1.59
 12     06/28/2009   Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory      1.59
 13     12/22/2009   Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory     17.54
 14     06/29/2010    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory      28.74
 15     04/19/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory      51.04
 16     12/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory      86.44
 17     07/07/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory      97.35

H. Restructuring
                              ISR Ratings at            Amount
              Board
                              Restructuring           Disbursed at         Reason for
Restructurin Approved
                                                      Restructurin Restructuring & Key
 g Date(s)     PDO
                            DO              IP         g in USD          Changes Made
              Change
                                                        millions
                                                                   Project was restructured
                                                                   mainly to address design
                                                                   issues. Key changes
                                                                   made included:
                                                                   i) Cancelation of the
                                                                       Line of Credit under
                                                                       Component C;
                                                                   ii) Expansion of the
                                                                       eligibility criteria of
June 18, 2008           Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory     1.59
                                                                       the Line of credit
                                                                       under component B.
                                                                   Extension of the credit
                                                                   closing date by two years
                                                                   from September 30, 2009
                                                                   to September 30, 2011
                                                                   and the IDA managed
                                                                   CIDA trust fund by two
                                                                   years to March 31, 2010.




                                        vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

Regional Context

1.      During the decade preceding the preparation of this project, the member countries 1 of
WAEMU intensified their efforts to more effectively compete in global markets through the
integration of economic and financial activities. The WAEMU envisaged the creation of a
common market based on the free circulation of people, goods, services, and capital, with
aligned commercial policies, and a single external tariff. A number of priorities interventions
were identified to be addressed prior to the realization of the envisioned common market.

2.      These included:

(i)     poor capacity on the part of regional institutions which served to undermine the
         development of effective capital markets;
(ii)    absence of benchmark rates;
(iii)   lack of available long-term capital for investment projects;
(iv)    lack of financing for private infrastructure projects;
(v)     weakness enforcement of legal and regulatory frameworks; and
(vi)    inadequate harmonization of tax policies.

3.     The WAEMU countries have made progress in implementing financial sector reforms
through the course of the past fifteen years. Notable reforms have included the adoption of a
new regional banking law in 1989; the establishment of a regional Banking Commission in
1990; and the introduction of a new regional insurance code. Commercial banks and the
insurance sector have concurrently been significantly restructured through the privatization of
many larger insurance companies. Moreover, a new regional stock market was established
through the creation of the Bourse Régionale des Valeurs (BRVM) in Abidjan, with
corresponding branches in each of the member countries.

4.       Having successfully implemented these reforms, the WAEMU member countries
decided to focus on deepening and improving the functioning of capital markets. Towards this
end the Council of Ministers of WAEMU established a Steering Committee for Capital Market
activities which drafted an action plan to jump-start stock and bond markets within the Union.

5.      The action plan called for, among other things, the strengthening of critical institutions
that interact in the capital market, including the West African Development Bank (BOAD), the
Conseil Régional, West African Central Bank (BCEAO), the Regional Stock Exchange
(BRVM), the WAEMU Commission and brokerage firms, as well as further improvement to the
legal and regulatory environment.



1
 The eight WAEMU member countries are: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo

                                                     1
Rationale for Bank assistance

6.      The three main objectives of the Bank's Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS
dated July 11, 2001) were: (i) the development of a unified financial market; (ii) the promotion
of efficient, region-wide infrastructure services; and (iii) the creation of a more stable and
attractive economic environment for all investors. The creation of attractive economic
conditions was expected to focus on further financial market integration and the progressive
realization of free movement for capital and the harmonization of tax policies to promote
private investments.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The principal objective of the proposed project was, to develop capital markets in the
WAEMU region, and to mobilize public and private financing for the region's infrastructure
development. The project was expected to contribute to WAEMU countries' efforts to achieve
sustainable regional economic growth through the provision of efficient, region-wide
infrastructure services and greater financial market integration.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
        and reasons/justification

8.     The PDO was not revised.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

9.      Historically, poorly diversified financial products and services that have failed to meet
the various needs of individuals and businesses, and the poor quality and reach of regional
infrastructure have been major impediments to regional economic growth in West Africa. The
PAD envisioned that the strengthening and expansion of financial infrastructure, and increasing
competition would help to improve domestic resource mobilization and stimulate more effective
financial intermediation. This in turn would lower financial intermediation costs, the benefits of
which would be passed on to private investors and consumers in eligible WAEMU countries.

10.     Specific benefits accruing to the population of WAEMU countries would be: (i) the
development of an efficient and liquid regional capital market to more effectively finance
economic development; (ii) the provision of resources to businesses and individual investors to
finance investments and improve opportunities for employment and the extension of more
efficient financial services to the population as a whole; and (iii) the development of private
commercial financing to support local and region-wide infrastructure development.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Technical Assistance (US$3.52 million)

11.     The aim of Technical Assistance and Institutional Support component of the project was
to strengthen the regulatory framework for capital market operations as well as the institutional

                                                2
capacity of key institutions involved in regulating and overseeing regional capital markets.
Institutions to be targeted were identified to include the BOAD, Conseil Régional, BRVM and
commercial intermediaries (SGIs), as well as to the BCEAO and the WAEMU Commission.

12.     It was envisaged that technical assistance (TA) and training provided to BOAD would
help to expand and diversify its activities, build and update institutional capacity, and improve
management and business practices. TA to the CREMPF was expected to focus on improving
the regulatory framework for equity and bond markets. The project was planned to provide TA
and training to the BCEAO to carry out training seminars for market participants. Finally,
assistance was to provide to the WAEMU Commission to study the simplification and
streamlining of regional tax regimes for medium-term bonds and other financial or capital
market instruments, and to the BRVM to carry out training for staff and market participants.

Component 2: Line of Credit (US$89.00 million)

13.     The aim of this component was to extend a credit line to provide the long-term resources
necessary to fund the foreign currency portion of projects aimed at deepening regional
economic integration among WAEMU countries. The proposed IDA funding was to be
allocated to the public sector components of selected investment projects that required
preferential and/or long-term financing. BOAD, in turn, was expected to lend the resources at a
maturity of 25 years with a 7-year grace period for repayment.

Component 3: The Guarantee Facility supported by IDA, MIGA and AFD (US$70.00)

14.     Supported by guarantee instruments provided under the auspices of IDA (the IDA
Guarantee), MIGA (the MIGA Guarantee) and AFD (the French Development Agency - AFD
Guarantee), the Guarantee Facility was envisioned to target the financing gap for private
projects by catalyzing private investments in small and medium-sized infrastructure projects,
including but not limited to privatization. The underlying guarantee investment was envisioned
to mitigate real and perceived risks that limited the potential participation of other investors.
The Guarantee Facility sought to facilitate access to these instruments for relatively small
projects.

15.     The use of BOAD as a well-positioned intermediary throughout the region was expected
to assist in the accelerated identification and processing of small- to medium-sized
infrastructure projects. The deployment of IDA, MIGA and AFD guarantees, with assistance
from BOAD, would be complemented by capacity building initiatives targeting BOAD staff to
more effectively execute private project financing and risk assessment. Improved capacity
would allow BOAD to move away from its traditionally narrow focus limited to the financing
of public projects and expand this to include private infrastructure projects through a diversity
of financing options.

16.    The Guarantee Facility was to be set up with an aggregate amount of about US$227.3
million. IDA and MIGA each committed US$70 million, and the AFD an amount of Euro 70
million.



                                               3
Component 4: Project Implementation (US$3.2million )

17.     Implementation was planned to be coordinated through a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) within BOAD, with oversight from Project Component Managers and a Steering
Committee. The PCU was expected to provide technical assistance to key institutions in an
effort to improve coordination within and between WAEMU financial markets and institutions
(WAEMU Commission, BRVM, Insurance supervisory body and Pension system supervisory
committee, etc.).

1.6    Revised Components

18.    Due to persistent implementation difficulties, the project underwent level I restructuring
in June 2008. The PDO remained unchanged, but project components and activities were
readjusted. The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework was revised to reflect changes
applied to the components of the project, and envisaged activities. The table below lists the
changes to project activities.

                            Table 1: Changes to project activities

No.            PAD Activities                                Restructuring
 1. Component 1: Technical assistance     Activities supported by the project did not undergo
    and institutional support             major changes. The results framework was
                                          consolidated to focus more specifically on
                                          outcomes.
2.    Component 2: Line of credit.        This component was modified to align it with
                                          market demands. The finance ceiling for individual
                                          projects was raised to US$ 20 million and eligibility
                                          criteria expanded to include non-road integrating
                                          infrastructure projects (telecom, energy etc.) and
                                          cross-border projects related to food security.
3.    Component 3: The guarantee facility The restructuring of this component consisted of: (i)
                                          cancelling the guarantee facility; (ii) signing a
                                          Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between
                                          MIGA and BOAD whereby MIGA agreed to
                                          analyze projects presented by BOAD and provide
                                          guarantees based on its own Guidelines and
                                          Procedures; and (iii) strengthening BOAD’s
                                          capacity for risk mitigation through technical
                                          assistance allowing BOAD to eventually develop its
                                          own guarantee product.

1.7    Other significant changes

19.     Implementation timeline. Through the life of the project, the closing date was extended
twice for a cumulative period of two years and nine months:

       i. As part of the 2008 level I restructuring, the Board approved an extension to the
          closing date from September 30, 2009 to September 30, 2011.


                                               4
       ii. In September 2011, World Bank management approved level II restructuring,
           extending the closing date by a further nine months to June 2011. The motivation for
           the second extension was to enable the project to make up for time lost due to the
           Ivorian crisis, and to improve the likelihood of achieving the PDO.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Overall, project design was complex and was insufficiently complete prior to
implementation. The design was undermined by a lack of detailed technical analysis,
incomplete stakeholder analysis, and a contingent failure to build and incorporate a strong
partnership and build consensus among stakeholders prior to project effectiveness. The design
also included cross conditionality that later contributed to effectiveness delay.

21.     Insufficient technical analysis to inform design of project activities: Overall project
orientation was premised on the recommendations of the RIAS and the country level strategies
of WAEMU member states. However, insufficient attention was paid towards identifying
interventions that would specifically contribute to the achievement of the PDO. For example, a
demand assessment for the Line of Credit (LOC) was not undertaken during project preparation,
and as a consequence there was an initial focus on road infrastructure at the expense of other
important priority sectors for WAEMU governments, including power generation.

22.     A demand assessment was conducted for the project’s guarantee facility, but this did
not identify a pipeline of projects to benefit from the facility. As a consequence no guarantee
was issued in the first three years of the facility’s term, which ultimately led to the cancellation
of the facility. The failure to adequately assess contextual considerations and latent demand for
the guarantee is not specific to this project, as is illustrated by the cancellation of the Peru
Guarantee Fund project due to a lack of projects; and the Indonesia Infrastructure Guarantee
Funds Project which was dropped after three years.

23.      Project Development Objectives were broad and extremely high level. Project design
incorporated a large number of stakeholders and envisaged a number of complex interventions
each of which could have warranted stand-alone operations. Design was further complicated by
the inclusion of four donors (IDA, MIGA, the French Development Agency --AFD, and the
Canadian International Development Agency -- CIDA,) each of which had different sets of
guidelines, protocols and policies. Direct beneficiaries of the project included five regional
institutions of which two were responsible for implementation. Further, indirect beneficiaries of
sub-projects funded by the line of credit or supported by the guarantee facility included eight
WAEMU member states

24.     Incomplete stakeholder analysis: Project design did not identify the full spectrum of
stakeholders, and in many instances failed to provide the support to stakeholders necessary for
the attainment of development objectives.

25.   Oversight to assess capacity of member states: Disbursement of the LOC was
dependent on the ability of beneficiary countries to quickly approve and procure finance for

                                                 5
projects. At entry, project design paid little attention to the importance of the capacity of
country level project implementation units. No assessment was conducted and consequently
there was a failure to recognize the critical need for technical assistance, and the contingent
failure to plan for sorely needed capacity building activities.

26.     Inefficient implementation mechanism: In multi-donor operations one option to
simplify implementation is to pool the contributions of donors into a common account managed
by a lead institution. In the context of this project, no consensus emerged around the need to
establish a common fund. While CIDA and IDA agreed to deposit contributions into a common
account to be managed by IDA, the French development agency elected to maintain its
contribution separately.

27.    As a consequence, to secure no-objection to activities funded by the AFD, documents
had to first be reviewed by the AFD prior to an additional review by the World Bank. This
extended the time required to secure no-objections and contributed to delays in project
implementation.

28.    Inadequate framework for partnerships: Project design envisaged the co-financing of
sub-projects but neglected to take into account the potential for conflicting procedures
governing the procurement of goods and works under the LOC. BOAD submitted eight road
packages for funding under the LOC at implementation, all of which were deemed incompatible
with IDA protocols. The projects were rejected as they had been initiated by the African
Development Bank (AfBD) as the lead co-financier. This was eventually resolved by moving
from a system of co-financing to parallel financing.

29.     Inadequate demand assessment for the LOC: Due to the absence of a demand
assessment at appraisal, the LOC focused solely on inter-regional road infrastructure projects
and neglected to take into account the infrastructure development priorities of governments and
the private sector (energy, telecom etc.). Moreover, the ceiling for total funding available under
the LOC for individual projects was too low.

30.     Project design could have integrated some lessons learned from previous projects:
Lessons learned from previous guarantee facility operations with regard to: (i) the need for a
strong intermediary; (ii) the importance of a well-defined pipeline of projects; and (iii) the need
for strong and consistent ownership of project outcomes on the part of the borrower, were only
partially incorporated into project design. A demand survey for the guarantee facility conducted
during project preparation was limited to only three of the eight countries of the WAEMU, and
was insufficiently rigorous given the size of the proposed facility. The absence at project
effectiveness of a pipeline of pre-identified sub-projects to be supported by the project, delayed
disbursement of the line of credit.

31.     Insufficient review of risks: A case in point is the assumption that support to capital
market development was expected to lead to an increase in the number of listed companies,
driven in part by a privatization program. The PAD did not adequately foresee the risk that
privatization programs could be discontinued or delayed and did not include any mitigation



                                                6
measures in this regard. This risk materialized and the indicator related to the increase in the
number of firms listed in the secondary market was not met.

2.2    Implementation

32.    There were significant delays in the implementation of activities resulting in the closing
date for the project being extended twice for a cumulated period of two and a half years. A
combination of factors caused these delays and impacted implementation and outcomes:

        i. Meeting effectiveness conditions took a year and half. Cross-conditionality
           between the development credit and guarantee facility agreements was further
           complicated by the requirement that the credit guarantee had to be ratified by
           national Parliaments with corresponding legal opinions from the eight Supreme
           Courts, before the whole project could become effective. An amendment to the
           guarantee facility agreement was eventually signed by the eight ministers of finance
           authorizing the guarantee facility agreement to be ratified by four of the member
           countries to enable effectiveness. This amendment allowed effectiveness to be
           reached just a couple of days prior to the expiration date of the second extension.

       ii. Failure to ensure the signing of a subsidiary agreement between the Bank
           (managing entity of the CIDA trust fund) and BOAD as the borrower further delayed
           the implementation of TA components. As a result the first batches of
           reimbursement requests (funded with proceeds of the CIDA trust fund) were rejected
           in 2007. Beneficiaries that had pre-financed their activities had to suspend
           implementation of their work due to cash flow constraints resulting in
           implementation delays. It took two years to address this flaw.

      iii. An absence of infrastructure and environment specialists on the Bank team
           slowed the review of sub-projects resulting in significant early delays to
           implementation of the LOC.

      iv. A Quality at Entry Review of the guarantee facility was conducted by QAG and
          rated Unsatisfactory. The review rated the preparation of the facility as
          unsatisfactory on the ground that the demand assessment was inadequate; and that
          BOAD was not equipped to act as an effective intermediary.

       v. Delays in restructuring: The project did not advance in the first four years of
          implementation and required a thorough assessment and restructuring.
          Notwithstanding that the project implementation was suffering from delays, it took
          more than four years to undertake the restructuring. After four years of
          implementation, the projects disbursement rate was only two per cent and that for a
          project expected to be implemented in five year period. Despite a series of
          restructuring recommendations arising from the QAE review in 2006, restructuring
          only occurred in June of 2008.




                                               7
       vi. Despite the PDO remaining unchanged, project restructuring entailed significant
           changes including the cancelation of the guarantee facility and the expansion of
           infrastructure sub-projects, in addition to roads, eligible for financing under the LOC.

      vii. Following project restructuring, the Bank’s proactive role contributed to improved
           disbursement and project implementation. As an illustration, the Bank team
           deployed high level missions to countries in support of country-level procurement
           specialists to expedite procurement process of BOAD financed projects. These
           measures contributed to a rapid improvement in procurement and a significant
           increase in the disbursement rate.

      viii. Political turmoil in Cote d’Ivoire slowed activities relating to the Stock Exchange
            and Capital Market regulator both based in Abidjan. At the height of the crisis, these
            institutions were closed and relocated to Bamako in 2011.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design

Rating: Unsatisfactory

33.     At entry, key performance indicators in the M&E framework were measurable.
However, the framework included some outcome indicators that posed attribution problems or
were not based on good practice. For example, increasing the number of firms listed on the
BRVM does not solely depend on regulations or fee structures operating in this trading venue,
but is also influenced by macro, or firm-specific factors (opportunity to broaden the shareholder
base, etc.). Another attribution problem arose with the intermediate indicator tracking the
volume of bonds issued by BOAD in CFAF billions which did not take into account the
possible effects of currency devaluation and/or inflation on the value of the bonds issued.

34.     Following restructuring and the cancelation of the guarantee facility, the M&E
framework was amended and the indicators linked to the guarantee facility were dropped.
Thereafter the two outcome indicators – “number of companies listed in the regional stock
market? and the “number of companies issuing bonds in the regional markets? – only referred to
the capital market development aspects of the PDO. As a result, none of the outcome indicators
in the M&E framework captured the infrastructure development aspect of the project.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

35.     At entry, BOAD developed and adopted a safeguard policy based on the World Bank’s
standard policies. The project helped to establish environmental and social units within BOAD
that would be responsible for the management of the safeguard policy for all BOAD financed
projects.



                                                8
36.     To this end, the capacity of the BOAD safeguards unit (EGDD), and the capacity of
beneficiaries, was reinforced to speed-up the review and approval of projects submitted for
funding, and to ensure effective safeguard supervision of project implementation. Consultants
were hired to carry out environmental audits of the project and to update existing safeguard
studies.

37.     With project support, the BOAD Safeguard Unit has successfully developed safeguard
policies governing all BOAD funded projects and more broadly, all infrastructure projects in
WAEMU countries.

Financial management was moderately satisfactory

38.     In the early phases of project implementation, financial management was compromised
by unethical practice on the part of the accountant assigned to the PCU. The contract of
individual concerned was terminated in April 2008. In the interim, the financial department of
BOAD and an external consultant were retained to support the PCU and mitigate delays in the
submission of interim financial reports. Through this period designated accounts remained
inactive and the recording of financial data was inadequate.

39.    Disbursement was initially slow due to implementation problems (discussed above).
Following restructuring improved performance in financial management directly contributed to
more effective project implementation.

Procurement was satisfactory

40.    Overall performance of procurement management is rated Satisfactory.

41.    The project required the procurement of large infrastructure, information systems and
consultancy services. Delays in procurement mostly affected activities related to the LOC, and
were rooted in complex and unclear procurement arrangements and weak country level capacity.
The clarification of procurement procedures, the provision of technical assistance, and close
monitoring helped to significantly improve procurement management after restructuring.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

42.     Following the closure of the project, the institutional arrangements and systems initiated
under the auspices of the project have continued to be operational. Financing needs, to a large
extent, are being fulfilled from domestic resources. Infrastructure built, as a consequence of the
project, has developed their own Operation and Maintenance (O&M). However, the recent
crisis in Cote d’Ivoire has underscored the urgent need for the regional financial market to
develop a contingency system to allow for the safeguarding of critical information and ensure
business continuity in the context of a crisis.

43.    Important institutional and regulatory reforms that contributed to improving trading
conditions in the regional financial market should be complemented going forward with the



                                                9
development of a new facility with less stringent eligibility conditions to enable SMEs to more
easily access the capital market.

44.     Despite BOAD not being rated, project support has demonstrably contributed to
improving its operations and strengthening institutional capacity. Second-generation reforms
and follow-up actions will be required to ensure the sustainability of project outcomes and their
resistance to future shocks. Critical to BOAD’s continued relevance and sustainability, and in a
context of growing demand from member countries and the private sector, BOAD must obtain a
rating to sustain the progress achieved thus far, and to enable the institution to raise more capital
on the market. A rating memo, prepared with project support, is expected to be submitted to
ratings agencies in 2013.

45.      BOAD is now engaged in new initiatives to support the development of mortgage
finance through a refinancing facility, as well as the provision of advisory services in support of
Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs). It is likely that BOAD will require further technical
assistance to develop and successfully implement these new initiatives. In addition, there is an
understanding that within the West Africa context, there is a need for a parallel facility to
facilitate SME access to capital markets. These activities are beyond the scope of the project
under review, but demonstrate that the project has positively contributed to the conditions
necessary for the development of functioning capital markets. BOAD has now moved towards
further strengthening its capacity and expansion of its area of operations.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of the Objectives: High

46.     Support for infrastructure development and financial market integration in the service of
sustainable regional economic growth in the WAEMU, and the deepening of economic
integration remain extremely relevant. Project design accurately incorporated priorities
identified by the WAEMU and was aligned with national and regional development strategies
including with the Bank’s Regional Integration Strategy for Africa. While overall the objective
is highly relevant, whether the project should have taken all the activities included is
questionable and it is this ICR’s conclusion that the project should have been trimmed and the
interventions planned in sequence.

47.     The continued relevance of project objectives is reflected in the recently adopted
WAEMU economic plan which emphasizes the deepening of regional financial markets to close
regional infrastructure gaps. The development of infrastructure through public-private
partnerships is, moreover, identified as a priority objective in National Country Assistance
Strategies (CAS) of member states. The project objective both during the design and exit are
highly relevant to the conditions in WAEMU and is in line with Bank strategy – both regionally
and in the context of individual country strategies. The Project is also reflects the current Africa
Strategy (March 2011) which plans to close the gap between infrastructure needs and


                                                 10
investments -- currently about $48 billion annually -- and support efforts to make it easier for
business to operate. 2

Relevance of design

48.     Preparatory work was sub-optimal and the choice and design of instruments was in some
instances inadequate. Given the initial institutional weakness of BOAD and the poor state of the
PPP agenda in the region, it appears that project design was overoptimistic. In addition, the
design did not consider sequenced interventions to substantively address the limited capacity of
targeted countries.

49.    The lack of a thorough demand analysis for the LOC is further buttressed by the fact that
the LOC design was not aligned with demand and the development priorities of the region, as
evidenced by the effective exclusion of non-road infrastructure sub-projects.

50.     The technical assistance component was undermined by an incomplete stakeholder
analysis, and the role and importance of market intermediaries was underestimated which, in
turn, limited their involvement in efforts to support market development.

Relevance of Implementation

51.    Despite challenges to implementation in the early stage of the project, (inadequate skill
mix, lack of proactivity as evidenced by the delayed restructuring) which were addressed
through project restructuring, the Bank’s implementation support was relevant.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

52.    The achievement of the PDO is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The ICR rating
weighed heavily the amount of time required to implement project objectives, in addition to the
relevance and achievement of the stated objectives. In addition, the overall rating will be a
weighted average of project performance before and after restructuring.

53.     The last ISR of the Project rated the outcome as Moderately Satisfactory. This rating is
correct if the time element is not included and if the rating refers to the implementation and
achievements after project restructuring. The timing element is critical because of the
unaccomplished activities, such as rating of BOAD, which is now in process, would have been
completed earlier. The ICR authors find it very difficult to justify the Moderately Satisfactory
rating given that the project has to drop some activities and has delivered only on one of the
three outcome indicators even recognizing the weakness of the indicators chosen. Also, it is the
conclusion of this ICR that the indicators should have been revised during the restructuring.




2
  Africa’s Future and the World Bank’s Support to It
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTAFRICA/Resources/AFR_Regional_Strategy_3-2-11.pdf

                                                  11
Before restructuring

Rating: Unsatisfactory

54.      Delays were experienced throughout the implementation of the LOC and the guarantee
facility. After four years of implementation, aside from successes in deploying TA, project
implementation remained poor. As of January 2008, not a single guarantee had been issued and
not one infrastructure project had been financed under the LOC. Furthermore, most reforms
envisioned in the project required additional time to be completed. Unsurprisingly, not one of
the three outcome indicators, and none of the intermediate outcome indicators, had been met
and disbursement stood at two per cent, four years after Board approval. This serious
underperformance in project implementation translated into a three year disbursement lag.

After restructuring

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

55.    Bold restructuring was undertaken to realign the project to the borrower’s priorities and
context. Close supervision was provided to accelerate implementation. Following restructuring,
project performance was significantly improved with a dramatic hike in activity and the
materialization of tangible impacts across components.

56.     As previously indicated, there were a number of shortcomings in the original M&E
framework to preclude an evaluation of the project achievements based on outcome indicators.
The indicator aiming to measure the development of the capital market premised on the
“Number of firms listed in the regional secondary market? generates attribution problems as the
conditions informing decisions by firms to list on a stock market are influenced by factors
beyond the scope addressed by project assistance. Moreover the “mobilization of public and
private financing for infrastructure development? part of the PDO was not captured in the
development outcome indicators 3.

57.      Against this background, achievement of the PDO post-restructuring will be assessed by
initially discussing the outcome indicators and then providing alternate evidence to show results
achieved by the project and directly connected to the PDO, even if these are not fully captured
by the M&E framework

Analysis of development outcome indicators

58.     Outcome Indicator #1: “Number of companies issuing bonds in the regional market?:
The number of firms that engaged in raising funds from the regional capital market increased
from 25 to 48 at project closing, just two units short of the target of 50. In addition to these
private companies, four member countries of the WAEMU now routinely raise funds in the
capital market through the issuance of bonds; a positive externality associated with the project.


3
 The intermediate outcome indicator relating to the amount of the LOC disbursed to regional infrastructure projects partly
captures achievements in relation to this aspect of the PDO

                                                              12
59.     Outcome Indicator #2: “Number of companies listed in the regional stock market?: As
of June 30, 2012, the net number of companies listed in the stock market had increased from the
baseline by only one unit, from 38 to 39, against a target of 50. Given their nature and scope 4,
project interventions in isolation were not sufficient to ensure a 20 per cent increase in the
number of firms listed on the regional trading venue.

60.     It had been expected that improvements to the market structure (supported by the
project) combined with the completion of the privatization programs (over which project had no
control) in WAEMU member countries would boost company listings on the BRVM. This
outcome was undermined by the discontinuation of privatization programs in the region. 5

Project outputs related to the PDO

61.     Following restructuring, the project achieved marked results that can be directly linked
to the PDO, but these are not fully reflected in the M&E framework. Table 2 illustrates the
results chain. Notwithstanding these positive developments, the ICR questions the time period
required to achieve these results. A detailed description of component outcomes is presented in
Annex 2.

                                              Table 2: PDO Results Chain

            PDO                                   Main Related Output                                Causal link to
                                                                                                        PDO
Mobilization of public            US$ 89 million Line Of Credit was fully
and private financing:            disbursed                                                                direct
                                  US$ 346 million donors resources were
                                  mobilized                                                                Direct
                                  US$ 67 million raised in the market
                                                                                                           direct
                                  BOAD has become an important development
                                  finance institution                                                     indirect
Provision of regional             11 sub-projects have financed the
infrastructure                    construction of 953.8 km of interstate roads                             direct

                                  Port of Lomé was upgraded                                                direct
Enhancement of the                Tax regimes as applied to financial products
integration                       across all eight countries were harmonized                               direct
                                  Capital Market fee structures were revised
                                  and simplified                                                           direct




4
  Consisted in technical assistance to improve the regulatory framework and make public listing less costly but did little to
convince private owned firms or even client governments to list their firms on the regional stock market.
5
  It is important to note that few private firms in member countries were capable of meeting the stringent eligibility conditions
necessary for listing, while others were unwilling to comply with disclosure rules.

                                                                13
         PDO                         Main Related Output                   Causal link to
                                                                              PDO
                         The harmonization of the accounting system
                         for financial intermediaries                          indirect
Performance of the       The reform of the credit guarantee system and
Regional Capital         the introduction of a disclosure and a rating         indirect
market                   system
                         A legal framework governing the mortgage
                         market was established                                 direct
                         Key institutions for the primary mortgage
                         market were established and operationalized:           direct
                         The CRRH, a regional mortgage refinancing
                         institution; and “BOAD Titrisation?, the
                         securitization branch of BOAD
                         BOAD has implemented institutional reforms            indirect



62.     The following review of achievement of PDO based on alternative evidence is divided
in two parts, each focusing on one of the specific targets, namely: (i) the mobilization of public
and private financing for the provision of regional infrastructure; (ii) the enhancement of the
integration and performance of the Regional Capital market.

Mobilization of public and private financing for the provision of regional infrastructure:

63.    The project directly contributed to the mobilization of public and private funds in
support of regional infrastructure development. Resources mobilised through the LOC have
contributed to the construction of important portions of four regional corridors and the
upgrading of the port of Lomé.

64.     The total costs of these projects amounted to US$ 506 million (financed by $156 million
of which US$ 89 million from the LOC and US$67 million from resources raised in the market)
and other donors for US$ 350 million. In line with the development objectives of the project,
the resources of the LOC successfully leveraged other resources (from BOAD, the private
sector and other donors) at a ratio of 1 to 6 in support of infrastructure development.

65.     At project closing 11 sub-projects had financed the construction of 953.8 km of
interstate roads. (See table in annex 2).

66.      The new roads will also contribute to increasing access to health and education services
for rural communities, and help facilitate market access. For example, the volume of cereals and
milk traded is expected to rise by 25 and 10 per cent respectively (to reach respectively10.000
litre, and 6500 Tons) on the Mali Senegal southern corridor.

67.    The upgrading of the Lomé port has significantly improved the efficiency of this
important logistical platform for neighbouring landlocked countries (Burkina, Niger). Truck
access to the port has been improved with the construction of a 40,000 square meter parking

                                               14
area. Security in the port has substantially improved and has been certified ISPS. Water and
electricity supply has also substantially improved as a consequence of project support.

68.    Project support played an important hand in the strengthening of the capacity of BOAD
as a development finance institution. BOAD is now in a position to raise capital from the
regional capital market, effectively extend public and private project finance loans, and offer
technical assistance to member countries.

69.     As an illustration, BOAD’s contribution to the execution of the road program of the
Economic Regional Program (2006-2010) amounted to US$ 246 million, exceeding the
cumulated funding provided by ECOWAS Investment Development Bank (BIDC) and IDA
(US$ 226 million). BOAD has developed its fiduciary capacity and has established safeguard
policies overseen by a dedicated environmental unit for all infrastructure projects.

70.     BOAD is now a more profitable and efficient institution and is preparing to initiate steps
to ensure that it is rated by sovereign credit agencies. The memo to rating agencies has been
prepared but was placed on hold on the advice of the Board due to the financial crisis. It should
be restarted early 2013.

Enhancement of integration and performance of the Regional Capital market

71.    The project contributed to the achievement of this aspect of the PDO through the
implementation of market reforms, and the establishment and strengthening of key market
players, which are discussed below.

Reform of the legal framework and structure of the Market

72.     Major structural reforms to the regional financial market implemented under the
auspices of the project included: (i) the reform of the credit guarantee system and the
introduction of a disclosure and rating system; (ii) the harmonization of tax regimes as applied
to financial products across all eight countries; and (iii) the revision and simplification of capital
market fee structures, (iv) the harmonization of the accounting system for financial
intermediaries, and (v) the establishment of a legal framework governing the mortgage market.

73.     The harmonization of taxes on financial products has contributed to the deepening of
financial market integration by increasing transparency, removing double taxation between
countries, and reducing country-level inconsistencies regarding taxation of capital gains.
Reforms to the accounting framework governing market intermediaries, has contributed to the
improvement of the quality of financial information generated by market intermediaries.

74.     Following the revision of the capital market fees structure, fees for issuers on the
primary market have been reduced up to 75 per cent. On the secondary market the fees
structure has been optimized and ensures better repartition of transaction costs between market
actors.




                                                 15
Strengthening and establishment of key market players

75.     Important capacity building activities undertaken as a consequence of the project
contributed directly to the strengthening and improved efficiency of the market regulator.
Following project interventions, the time required for listing and the issuance of bonds by
companies or governments has been cut in half. An evaluation conducted by the International
Association for Securities Commissions (IASC) found that the regulator adequately performs its
role in supervising and regulating market activities.

76.     The project assisted BOAD to implement reforms including: (i) the adoption of a
modern assets/liability management system; (ii) reform to the liquidity management system to
increase predictability and efficiency; (iii) improved human resource planning and management;
and (iv) the adoption of the international accounting standard (IFRS).

77.     BOAD is, as a consequence of project interventions, more profitable and efficient, and
has increased its capacity to issue bonds in the regional market. Over the last five years (2007-
2012), BOAD was able to raise more than US$ 500 million on the regional financial market.
This represents 51 per cent of resources borrowed by BOAD, compared to only 35 per cent in
the period 2003 through 2007.

78.     Institutional strengthening improved borrowing conditions, enabling BOAD to become a
benchmark issuer in the regional market in a context where previously no single country was
able to play that role.

79.      The project contributed to BOAD reaching the final stage of preparation for rating. The
memo to rating agencies has been prepared but was put on hold on the advice of the Board due
to the financial crisis.

80.   The project helped to establish and operationalize two key institutions for the primary
mortgage market: The CRRH, a regional mortgage refinancing institution created in July 2011;
and “BOAD Titrisation?, the securitization branch of BOAD created in December 2011 with a
mandate to promote securitization as a financing instrument in the WAEMU.

81.     Assistance provided by the project contributed to the finalization of procedures manuals,
the installation of information systems, the purchase of specialized software and the setting-up
of an intranet and external website. Both institutions are fully operational. In July 2012, CRRH
raised, around US$ 25 million by issuing bonds on the regional financial market. As a
consequence, CRRH has refinanced the mortgage portfolios of nine regional banks at ten years
maturity and an interest rate of 6.1 per cent. This in turn has contributed to the extension of
cheap long-term housing finance to the customers as well as to other banks unable to issue
bonds or do securitization.

82.     The impact of the project’s interventions to develop the regional financial market is
evident in an increase of 75 per cent in the issuing of bonds, moving from US$ 400 million over
the period 2005-2008 to US$ 700 million over the 2009-2012 period, which translates into 65
per cent growth in primary market capitalization (US$ 1.6 billion as of October 2012). Reforms

                                               16
to the secondary market have also enhanced activities as evidenced by a 25 per cent increase in
the number of transactions for the period 2009-2012 to reach 22156.

83.     Further, 2009 marked the first year that the stock exchange made a profit since its
inception in 1998. The number of brokers licensed for the Regional Stock Market has increased
and invigorated market competition. Strengthened regional cooperation has led to the cross
listing of enterprises in the WAEMU exchange, the Lagos (Nigeria) Stock Exchange and the
Ghana stock exchanges.

84.     Based on a weighted average of the unsatisfactory rating at the time of the project
restructuring and the moderately unsatisfactory rating at project closing, the overall outcome
rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory:

                                          Table 3: Activities Rating

                                                                           Restructured
                   Description                 Original Activities                                  Overall
                                                                             Activities
                                                                            Moderately
      Objective*                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                                            Satisfactory
      Rating value*                                      2                        3
      Weight (% disbursed before/ after
                                                        0.02                     0.98                   1
      restructuring)**
      Weighted value                                    0.04                     2.94                2.98
                                                                                                  Moderately
      Overall rating
                                                                                                 Unsatisfactory
*MS=Moderately Satisfactory=4; MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory =3.
**Disbursements as of June 18, 2008: SDR 1.34 million; June 18, 2008 to June 30, 2012: SDR 64.3 million; Total SDR 65.4
million.

3.3      Efficiency

85.     It was not possible to quantify all benefits at the time of appraisal, due to the nature of
some of the project interventions, and problems of attribution. As a consequence, instead of
utilizing a standard economic analysis, the appraisal document framed a set of potential
outcomes that could be linked to actions implemented through the course of the project. These
included the improvement in the availability of investment capital, and economic growth
fostered by the provision of, and improvements to, regional infrastructure.

86.     Following the closing of the project, most of the expected benefits had materialized,
specifically through: (a) the construction of 958.5 km of interregional roads; the subsequent
reduction of cumulative transit time along these corridors by 16 hours and the cost of
maintenance of vehicles by up to 35 per cent; and (b) the overhaul of a pivotal trade logistics
platform at Lomé and a contingent increase of 30 per cent to the volume of activity at the Port,
reaching 8.2 million tons at project closing. This was a clear efficiency gain since the number
of vessels using the port has remained stable during the same period in which the volume
increased by 30 per cent (2007-2011). Economic and financial analysis conducted for each
infrastructural investment indicated an economic rate of return above 13 per cent. Moreover,

                                                         17
technical assistance provided to the regional financial market institutions, and to BOAD, led
directly to the execution of important reforms that strengthened the regional capital market. TA,
moreover, contributed to the transformation of the BOAD into a more profitable regional
development finance institution, with a larger stock of capital and a benchmark issuer of bonds
in the regional market

87.    Delivery of these objectives helped to further develop regional consultancy services,
boosted demand for local equipment vendors, and funded construction of road infrastructure.
Analysis of roads constructed indicates that least-cost approach was followed with the cost per
km of road constructed under the project falling below the regional average of US$ 800,000.

88.    Project interventions helped to halve the time required to process the listing and the
issuance of bonds by companies or governments. Commissions (IASC) found that the regulator
adequately performs its role in supervising and regulating market activities

89.     As indicated in Annex 1 actual costs at project closure amounted to US$100.6 million,
which compare favorably with estimated costs at appraisal of US$102.6 million, while
achieving most of what it set out to do. This shows an actual spending of 98.11 per cent that
could be characterized as an efficiency gain. Evidence of efficiency in utilizing the credit
proceeds are provided by the least cost approach followed for the procurement of road
construction discussed below, but also in the cost of project implementation. Some of the PIU
experts were hired by BOAD to staff the safeguard unit created with project support and to
strengthen its existing infrastructure department. These staff were moved to the BOAD payroll.

90.    Total Bank administrative costs for project supervision over the 9 years implementation
period were $1,107,600, or an average per annum of $123,000 which was slightly above the
Africa regional annual average of $110,000. The slightly higher cost may be explained by the
characteristics of this operation (multi-donor, multi-sectoral, regional project) and the high level
of coordination required.

91.     However, the overall efficiency is compromised by the time needed to achieve the
result. Since time is a major factor in efficiency achievement, again, given the number of years
taken to achieve this level of efficiency, it is rated as Modest.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

92.     Despite a cumbersome design, which led to significant delays in implementation,
restructuring enabled the project to achieve a substantial part of the PDO. Important reforms
have been supported to improve the regulatory framework and cost structure of regional
financial markets. Capacity building has contributed to the strengthening of the regulatory body
and has enhanced its credibility. Project resources helped to leverage donor and private sector
money to develop and enhance regional infrastructure. Technical assistance provided to BOAD
transformed this key regional development finance instrument into a strong institution able to
extend public and private project finance loan and TA to member countries.

                                                18
3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

93.      The construction of regional infrastructure (roads, logistic platforms) under the auspices
of the project positively contributed to the deepening of economic and financial integration in
the WAEMU Zone. The project contributed to strengthening of regional financial market
institutions, and the BOAD has strengthened its operations, fulfilled all requirements for rating
and has developed in-house capacity for safeguards management. BOAD is now an efficient
and profitable development finance institution and a benchmark issuer in the regional market.
The regional regulator of the capital market is stronger and more efficient. The time required to
process a listing or bond issuance request has been significantly reduced. The BRVM has
become profitable, ten years after its inception.

94.     The project moreover supported a feasibility analysis of the housing refinancing facility
as well as its operationalization. The latter included the formulation of procedures manuals, the
procurement of IT equipment, specialized software and a Website. At project closing, the
CRRH was fully operational and had successfully raised funds from the regional capital market.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

95.      The project’s main deliverables were focused in the areas of road infrastructures,
institution and capacity building, and financial markets regulatory framework. Road and
logistical infrastructure are largely irreversible once constructed and are likely remain in place
after project closing if proper maintenance is undertaken. Road maintenance funds have been
created in most WAEMU member states and could contribute to the maintenance of
infrastructure funded by the project.

96.      Important investments in building the capacity of the CREMPF has contributed to the
institutional strengthening of the main supervisory and regulatory authority of the regional
financial market. These outcomes will require timely follow-up in order to guarantee the
sustainability of the institutional changes. The recently approved Regional Economic Program
indicates a strong commitment on the part of the WAEMU commission or members to deepen
the capital market and envisions the provision of resources to ensure the required follow-up
interventions to sustain the institutional changes supported by the project.

97.     The risk of reversal of improvements to the financial market regulatory framework and
the fee structure is low. Tax reforms implemented under the project are now regional directives
and cannot be overturned at the national level. Strong competition from trading venues in Accra,

                                                19
Libreville, Douala, and Casablanca will make it difficult for the BRVM to reverse its fee
structure and the reduction of costs supported by the project.

98.     Technical knowledge provided to BOAD to support project implementation will remain
in the institution after project closing. Experts recruited to the PU to support project
implementation have been permanently hired by BOAD to staff the safeguard unit created with
project support and to strengthen its existing infrastructure department.

99.     Project support to BOAD in the areas of assets/ or liquidity management, as well as on
the fundamental functions of internal audit and human resources management, have contributed
to transforming BOAD into a profitable institution. The envisioned rating of the institution in
2013 should help maintain and sustain the progress achieved.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

100. The PDO was consistent with the WAEMU priorities and the Bank’s strategy at project
inception. Issues to be addressed built on existing national strategic plans and policies, and were
properly identified.

101. However, project design was complex, with a cumbersome array of interventions and
beneficiaries. Not all risks and mitigation measures were adequately identified, and when
articulated, were not commensurate with the implications of realization of these risks.

102. The main shortcoming of project design was the inadequate assessment of demand for
the guarantee facility and the failure to identify capacity shortcomings at BOAD. Project design
was insufficiently flexible to accommodate critical infrastructures needs beyond those
associated with roads. Both of these shortcomings were later addressed through restructuring
(guarantee canceled, eligibility criteria of the line of credit expanded and ceiling increased).

103.   Other shortcomings included:

       i)   Complex cross-conditionality between the DCA and the guarantee facility
            agreement that required the approval of the latter by the eight national parliaments
            of the WAEMU member countries, with judicial opinion from respective supreme
            courts. Inability to control or manage this process contributed to effectiveness
            delays.

       ii) Project design envisioned co-financing of sub-projects funded by the LOC credit
           but overlooked the implications of such arrangements in terms of procurement
           management. Internal institutional protocols required co-financiers (often the lead

                                                20
            financier) to apply their own procedures in addition to IDA procedures. This
            contributed to delays during the implementation of the LOC, which were only
            resolved by moving from co-financing to parallel financing.

104. The budget devoted to preparation (US$1.1 million) was commensurate with the
regional dimension and the complexity of the operation, and reflects the level of support
provided by the regional integration department and country management of WAEMU member
countries.

105.   The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is therefore rated Unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

106. Supervision was conducted regularly, with approximately two missions per year. There
were three Task Team Leaders (TTLs) over the course of the project life. The final two TTLs
were located in the field. The turnover of TTL did not negatively impact implementation
support or significantly disrupt continuity of dialogue with the borrower.

107. Bank’s performance during the 8 years of project implementation was mixed but
improved substantially following the restructuring of the project.

108. Prior to restructuring bank supervision was less than satisfactory because of inadequate
skill mix in the task team and a lack of proactivity. Specifically, the team could have been more
proactive in ensuring a more timely restructuring of the project.

109. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were regularly updated, with management
regularly commenting on ISRs and providing guidance to the team. However, the overall
performance ratings through the early stages of the project may have been too optimistic. For
example between 2004 and 2006, implementation progress and development objectives were
assessed to be moderately satisfactory despite a disbursement rate of only 2 per cent and the
failure to initiate flagship activities (LOC, guarantee facility). This was only downgraded to
moderately unsatisfactory in October 2007.

110. Management of the CIDA trust fund was inadequate. Delays in the signing of
agreements between the Bank and CIDA and the Bank and BOAD negatively affected the
mobilization of the TA Component.

111. Following a TTL change in early 2008, bold restructuring was undertaken to refocus
project activities and align them with the priorities and capacity of the borrower. The guarantee
facility was canceled, the eligibility conditions for the LOC expanded to include non-road
infrastructure, and the cap on financing of individual sub-projects was raised. The restructuring
recommended utilization of parallel financing instead of co-financing to resolve procurement
inconsistencies between co-financiers. Internal restructuring entails the formation of a stronger
task team staffed with a more applicable mix of skills. Following the formalization of the

                                               21
restructuring initiative, the task team reengaged with the project and gave it the needed impetus
to expedite implementation and achieve the full development objective. However, restructuring
failed to address significant shortcomings in the M&E framework, and an opportunity was
missed to more effectively align outcome indicators to the different aspects of the PDO.

112. Innovative measures were implemented by the task team to boost disbursement. Under
the Line of Credit Component, Project Coordination was urged to conduct regular missions to
beneficiary member countries to provide assistance to the units in charge of procurement of
supported projects, and to brief governments regarding associated risks and the need to take
bold actions. This initiative helped expedite the procurement process at the national level and
was instrumental in achieving full disbursement with regard to the Line of Credit.

113. Improved project performance through the final years of implementation resulted in a
dramatic hike in activity and the materialization of significant outcomes across a range of
components. This translated into the disbursement of credit proceeds above 98 per cent by
project closure. Primarily as a consequence of the delayed submission of an extension request
for the Canadian Trust Fund in September 2011, which prevented full implementation of the
communication strategy for the CREMPF, the quality of supervision after restructuring is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

114.   Overall the quality of bank supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

115. Shortcomings in project design negatively affected implementation. The Bank could
have addressed the design weakness during early period of project implementation when it was
clear that implementation was practically in limbo. There were call to review and restructure
the project but the Bank “slept on the wheel? as one senior manager referred to the performance
of the Bank. The Bank team finally did a good job after restructuring but it happened too late in
project implementation requiring more than 2-years of extension of the closing date. Against
this backdrop, overall rating for the Bank Performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) BOAD Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

116. Senior management within BOAD was committed to project implementation despite the
absence of ownership for the guarantee facility. However, there were some weaknesses. Layers
of hierarchy within BOAD undermined the ability of the project coordinator to make quick and
effective decisions. A request by IDA to appoint a senior manager as a focal point for project
activities was not approved, reinforcing these problems. Changes in BOAD management did not
significantly impact the project.

                                               22
117. Senior BOAD management was instrumental in implementing institutional reforms
applicable to BOAD under the auspices of the project. A safeguard unit was created and
included in the organization chart and its operations substantially overhauled. In addition the
financial management department provided important support to the PCU in the two year period
for which there was no dedicated accountant attached to the program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

118. The project unit was headed by a low level member of BOAD staff limiting the unit’s
ability to make timeous decisions due to the need to consult directors in other units prior to
taking action. The PIU was endowed with good quality technical staff and skills. Technical
experts hired by the project to support project implementation (infrastructure, environment and
procurement specialists) were retained by BOAD. The project unit was able to ensure effective
coordination with beneficiaries.

119. There were no substantive procurement problems except those arising due to
inconsistencies between the procedures of IDA and co-financiers.

120. Initial problems relating to unethical actions on the part of an accountant, who was
subsequently dismissed and delays in re-filling this post did not entail substantive fiduciary
issues.

121. Recruitment of the M&E specialists took a very long time to be finalized despite several
reminders from the task team.

122.   As a consequence the work of the PCU is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

123. Although senior management was committed to the project objectives and important
units were instructed to provide relevant support to the PCU. However, the project was not
represented at high level staff resulting in delays in important decisions.

124. Based on the moderately satisfactory BOAD performance and moderately satisfactory
implementing agency performance, overall performance of the borrower is rated moderately
satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

125. A well-identified pipeline of projects and actions is critical for effectively
establishing a guarantee facility. The demand analysis for the guarantee facility was

                                              23
insufficiently in-depth and failed to identify a pipeline of real and potential projects to be
supported by the facility. As a consequence not one single request for support was forwarded to
the guarantee facility 30 months after project effectiveness. In the future, projects supporting the
establishment of a guarantee facility must be identified prior to the launch of the facility.

126. Guarantee facilities require the identification of strong and capacitated
intermediaries prior to the commencement of operations. BOAD, initially selected as the
intermediary for the guarantee facility, did not have the capacity to fulfill this role. The
realization of BOAD’s institutional weakness only occurred after project effectiveness, and the
consequent delay in mobilizing technical assistance to support BOAD may have contributed to
the overall failure of the facility.

127. Effectiveness conditions should be realistic: Effectiveness of the operation was tied to
cross conditionality between the credit agreement and the facility, which proved to be
cumbersome and overly complex in practice. This led to delays that required serial extensions to
implementation, jeopardizing the effectiveness of the operation as a whole. Ultimately
effectiveness was delayed by almost fifteen months.

128. Multi-donor operations require clear and efficient implementation arrangements.
Project implementation was hampered by conflicting procedures between the AFD and IDA.
This situation created significant procedural duplication which led to delays. Activities funded
through AFD had first to be reviewed by the AFD prior to an additional review by the World
Bank to secure no-objection. This extended the time required to secure no-objections and
contributed to delays in the provision of technical assistance. The establishment of a common
account managed by a lead donor, such as the one agreed to by ACDI and IDA, proved to be
more efficient.

129. The implementation of project activities co-financed by different donors created
practical difficulties due to inconsistencies between the procurement procedures of co-
financiers. To overcome this inefficiency a system of parallel financing was developed to avoid
the duplication of procurement procedures.

130. Project supervision requires close oversight, and active decision-making from
management in light of early warning signs. Failures in the early stages of project
implementation were compounded by management inaction when the situation warranted bold
action. Despite recommendations arising from the QAE review in 2006 and disbursement rate
below two per cent, restructuring was formalized four years after project effectiveness. Bank
management could have been more forceful in ensuring the timely completion of restructuring
by the team.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                                24
                                      Annex 1
                             Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                            Percentage of
          Components             Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                             Appraisal
                                    millions)         millions)
Technical Assistance and project
implementation                         7.8                5.8                    74%
Line of Credit                        94.8               94.8                   100%

Total Baseline Cost                    102.6                100.6               98%
Physical Contingencies                   0.0                 0.00
Total Project Costs                    102.6                100.6               98%
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                 0.00
Total Financing Required               102.6                100.6               98%

(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate                  Percentage
         Source of Funds                                        Estimate
                                     Cofinancing    (USD                    of Appraisal
                                                             (USD millions)
                                                   millions)
Borrower                                            54.55          89           163%
CANADA: Canadian International
                                                     2.50            1.5
Development Agency (CIDA)                                                           73%
FRANCE: French Agency for
                                                     93.25          3.89
Development                                                                           4%
MIGA Guarantee                                       70.00           0                0%
International Development
                                                     102.6          100.6
Association (IDA)                                                                   98%
FRANCE: Ministry of Foreign
                                                     2.40           0.32
Affairs (MOFA)                                                                      13%
Local Sources of Borrowing Country                   19.60          57.38          293%




                                           25
                                               Annex 2
                                         Outputs by Component

Table 2. Outputs by component

Component 1: Technical Assistance

This component included technical assistance to (i) BOAD, (ii) to Conseil Régional, and (iii) other key
institutions such as UEMOA Commission, BCEAO, BRVM and market intermediaries (SGI's). The
technical assistance to BOAD is subdivided into three sub-components: (a) Strengthening of the
institutional and technical capacities of the BOAD in order to improve its productivity; (b) strengthening
of the institutional and technical capacities of BOAD in order to become a reference rate bond issue in
West Africa capital market; and (c) strengthening of the technical capacities of BOAD in order to
prepare the sub-projects to be covered under an FDA Guarantee, an IDA Guarantee or a MIGA
Guarantee.

The following table summarizes the achievements under this component.

         Component                                             Achievement
Component 1: Technical
Assistance

Component 1.1: Technical             •    Adoption of a modern assets/liability management system
assistance to BOAD                   •    Reforms of liquidity management systems to increase
                                          predictability and efficiency
                                     •    Improved human resources planning and management
                                     •    Creation and staffing of a safeguard unit
                                     •    Adoption of the IFRS
                                     •    Participation of stakeholders with good standing/credit rating
                                          in BOAD capital
                                     •    Increase of BOAD callable capital
                                     •    Development of a high standard procurement system
                                     •    Overhaul of BOAD Information System and development of a
                                          business continuity system
                                     •    BOAD has reached the final stage of rating process


Component 1.2: Technical             •    Reforms of the guarantee system and introduction of a
assistance to CREPMF,                     disclosure and a rating system
BRVM and WAEMU                       •    Harmonization of tax on financial products across the 8
commission                                member countries of the WAEMU
                                     •    Revision and simplification of the capital market fees structure
                                     •    Elaboration and adoption of a harmonized accounting system
                                          for market intermediaries;
                                     •    establishment of a mortgage and securitization market;
                                     •    Overhaul of rules and regulations governing the regional
                                          capital market;
                                     •    Elaboration of sanction regimes for violation of financial
                                          market rules.

                                                    26
         Component                                              Achievement
                                      •   Institutional strengthening and capacity building of various
                                          market players, including training for 2000 persons.
                                      •   Upgrading of the regional financial market information
                                          systems (monitoring system for activities on the secondary
                                          market, Development of an automated data management
                                          system (GED) for the regulator etc..).
                                      •   Establishment of the regional facility for mortgage refinancing
                                          (CRRH)
                                      •   Establishment of a securitization branch for BOAD (BOAD
                                          Titrisation)


Component 2: Line of credit

One of the key components of the project was an IDA line of credit in an amount of US$89 million equivalent,
The line of credit was to be used to promote economic integration among WAEMU countries by providing the
needed long-term resources to fund selected "integrating and environmentally sound" public projects. The line
of credit was planned to finance only the foreign currency portion of those projects with a high impact on
regional integration. Project selection and appraisal criteria were determined to be the same as those used by
the World Bank. Given WAEMU's financial policy during project preparation, under which projects are
financed essentially out of financial market resources commercially available in the WAEMU region, the
proposed IDA funding was expected to be allocated primarily to the public sector components of selected
investment projects that would require some preferential and/or long-term financing.

The following table summarizes the use of the line of credit and the achievements made.

Component                        Achievement
Component 2: Line of                  •   953.8 km of interstate roads constructed (see Table 3)
Credit                                •   Overhaul of the port of Lomé
                                      •   Capacity building for infrastructure agencies of WAEMU
                                          member countries.
                                      •   Elaboration and adoption by the 8 WAEMU member states of
                                          regional safeguard guidelines for infrastructure constructions


Component 3: DROPPED

Given the context prevailing during appraisal, risk reduction instruments such as the IDA, MIGA and AFD
guarantees were believed to play a critical role in increasing the attractiveness of certain investments that are
exposed to political risks and that are dependent upon the government performance or payment obligations
toward these projects. It was argued that although the Bank Group has been supporting the development of
large private projects in the past, during the timing leading towards appraisal of the project indicates that
most infrastructure projects in the UEMOA countries that are commercially viable are likely to be relatively
small is size and costs. The primary objective of the Guarantee Facility was therefore argued to be to help
stimulate private investment in small and medium infrastructure and privatization projects by mitigating the
critical risks of government performance, which currently constrain private sector’s interest in these
countries.



                                                    27
Due to persistent implementation difficulties, the entire component had been restructured. The restructuring
of this component consisted of (i) cancelling the guarantee facility; (ii) signing a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between MIGA and BOAD whereby MIGA agreed to analyze projects presented by
BOAD and provide guarantees based on its own Guidelines and Procedures; and (iii) strengthening BOAD’s
capacity for risk mitigation through technical assistance allowing BOAD to eventually develop its own
guarantee product.

Table 3. List of projects funded under the Line of Credit

          Project Name          Country         Total Cost        BOAD          Total         Regional Program
                                               (CFA billion)     Funding         Km
                                                               (CFA billion)
01   Benin-Ouaké – Togo      Bénin                      11. 83        7 388             37,0 Guinee - Ivory
                                                                                             Coast-Nigeria
02   Burkina- Ghana          Burkina Faso                   27. 3      7 188        156,0 WAEMU (PR1)
     Border (156 km)
03   Urbane Road             Guinée Bissau                   9.5         5.8          9,5 WAEMU Priority
                                                                                          Corridor
04   Bougouni-Sikasso        Mali                           22. 7        6.2        210,0 WAEMU Prog n°1
                                                                                          (PR1)
05   Bandiagara-Bankass- Mali                               20. 5      3.874        159,0 ECOWAS
     Koro (159 km)
06   Echangeur and       Mali                           20 781         5 594             9,0 WAEMU
     Urban road sections
07   Mananthali-         Mali                               16.9         5.5        101,0 OMVS :Bamako-
     Mahina –Sénégal                                                                      Kita-Manantali-
                                                                                          Dakar
08   Niamey- Mali            Niger                          12. 5      8 630         94,0 WAEMU
09   Tambacouna-             Sénégal                        22. 1         3.3        89,0 WAEMU : Axe
     Médina-Gounass                                                                       CW/TR-38/99
10   Mako-Kédougou           Sénégal                     9 592         7 911         56,0 WAEMU/NEPA
                                                                                          D/ECOWAS
11   Upgrading of port of    Togo                       14 770         9 888         N.A.
     Lome
12   Togo-Burkina Faso       Togo                        11.56         6.627            38,0 WAEMU




                                                   28
                                      Annex 3
             Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                     Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                        Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
                                              Lending
Aida Der Hovanessian      Manager                                     IFC, CM2A6
Alexandre K. Dossou       Sr. Transport Specialist                      AFTTR
Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez    Sr. Program Assistant                         AFTFW
Andres Londono            Sr. Operations Officer                        SEGES
Ann Christine Rennie      Consultant                                     SASFP
Chantal Leontine Tiko     Program Assistant                             AFMTG
Djibrilla Adamou Issa     Sr. Financial Specialist                      MNSFI
Gupta Pankaj              Manager                                       TWIFS
Happi Jean-Michel         Country Manager                               ECCAR
Harwit Whewell Emily      Consultant                                     IEGPE
Hugues Agossou            Sr. Auditor                                   IADVP
Jean-Noel Guillossou      Program Manager                               AFTTR
Jyoti Bisbey              Operations Analyst                            TWIFS
Kofi I. Egbeto            Consultant                                    AFTU2
Kossi R. Eguida           Social Development Specialist                 BGFWB
Mark Walker               Chief Counsel                                 LEGSO
Michel Wormser            Vice President & Chief Operations Officer     MIGCO
Noel K. Tshiani           Task Team Leader                              ECSSD    Task Team Leader #1
Pierre C. Vieillescazes   Consultant                                    MNSFI
Pooshpa Muni Reddi        Program Assistant                             LEGAM
Robert A. Robelus         Consultant                                    AFTN2
Sameena Dost              Sr. Counsel                                   LEGES
Sidonie Jocktane          Executive Assistant                           AFMGA
Soukeyna Kane             Manager                                        ECS03
Yao Wottor                Sr. Procurement Specialist                    LCSPT



                                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                        Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Supervision/ICR
Sherri Ellen Archondo     Sr. Operations Officer                       AFTFE
Itchi Gnon Ayindo         Sr. Procurement Specialist                   AFTPW
Hal G. Bosher             Sr. Underwriter                              MIGAH
Jonathan Isaac Darboux    Financial Sector Specialist.                AFTFS-HIS
Jean-Charles De Daruvar   Sr. Counsel                                  LEGAM
El Hadji Babaly Deme      Consultant                                   AFTU1
Magueye Dia               Private Sector Development Specialist        AFTFW ICR Author
Emmanuel Diarra           Sr. Operations Officer                       AFTFW
Severine Dinghem          Sr. Financial Officer                         FEU
Maimouna Mbow Fam         Sr. Financial Management Specialist          AFTMW
Fabio Galli               Lead Transport Specialist                    AFTTR

                                               29
                                                                                Responsibility/
             Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
 Jean-Noel Guillossou        Program Manager                       AFTTR
 Djibrilla Adamou Issa       Sr. Financial Specialist              MNSF1    Team Task Leader #2
 Sidonie Jocktane            Executive Assistant                   AFMGA
Jeannette Kah Le Guil        Sr. Program Assistant                 AFTFE
 Mansour Elimane Kane        Adviser                               MIGEA
 Monique Koning              Operations Team Manager - MIGA        MIGOP
 Astrid Manroth              Sr. Energy Specialist                 ECSEG
 Deo Ndikumana               Sr. Country Officer                   LCCHT
 Elena P. Palei              Sr. Underwriter                       MIGOP
 Robert A. Robelus           Consultant                            AFTN2
 Andre Ryba                  Consultant                            AFTFE
 Chantal Leontine Tiko       Program Assistant                     AFMTG
Samuel Taffesse              Sr. Operations Officer                AFTFW
 Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez      Sr. Program Assistant                 AFTFW
 Pierre C. Vieillescazes     Consultant                            SEGEN
 Yao Wottor                  Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
 Eric Jean Yoboue            Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPE

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY02                                              73.74                        348.79
FY03                                              93.93                        360.70
FY04                                              86.17                        336.06
FY05                                               5.68                         20.72
FY06                                                0                            0.00
Total:                                           259.52                       1066.27
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                             13.51                          99.38
FY06                                              27.7                         165.03
FY07                                             31.85                         190.26
FY08                                             41.92                         252.00
FY09                                             15.38                          82.00
FY10                                             20.62                         119.54
FY11                                             21.29                         113.76
FY12                                              9.48                          57.72
FY13                                              6.06                          27.73
Total:                                           187.81                       1107.60




                                               30
                                        Annex 4
                Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Executive summary of BOAD ICR

1. The WAEMU Capital Market Development Project (PDMF), which became operational on 29 July
2005, formally closed out on 30 June 2012.

2. This executive summary of the implementation completion report includes respectively four (4)
sections: i) project outcomes; ii) difficulties experienced and factors affecting the project
implementation; iii) lessons to be drawn; and iv) prospects for future discussions about cooperation to be
held with technical and financial partners of the Union.

Project outcomes

3. The purpose of the project was to “promote the regional capital market for increased mobilization of
public and private resources to support regional integration-prone infrastructure projects? through
components such as “technical assistance?, “infrastructure credit facility?, and “guarantee facility?
cancelled as result of project restructuring in 2008.

4. Project beneficiaries include BOAD, the Regional Council (CREPMF), the Regional Stock Exchange
(BRVM) and the Central Depositary/Bank of Settlements, the Central Bank (BCEAO), the WAEMU
Commission, other players of the regional capital market (Association of intermediation companies,
corporate investors, public accountants, etc.) and member countries.

5. The project funding in an initial amount of FCFA204.3 billion, was jointly provided by the
International Development Association (IDA), the French Development Agency (AFD), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). In
addition, BOAD and beneficiary countries also provided funding for sub-projects under the
“infrastructure credit facility component?.

6. The project implementation review, at its close-out and based on its results framework, shows that
eight out of nine performance indicators selected at component level (89%), are either fully implemented
(78%) or underway (11%). The project contributed to building capacities of market players, improving
the regional capital market’s institutional and regulatory framework as well as building capacities for
BOAD and member countries in supporting and implementing infrastructure projects.

7. Thus, BOAD is nowadays the biggest non-sovereign bond issuer in the WAEMU regional capital
market, mainly long-term bond loans. The financial conditions applied to these bond issues are deemed
as a reference by the market. The completion level of over 400% of original targets set for resource
mobilization in the regional capital market by BOAD shows the attainment of this target.

8. Over the last five years (2008-2012), BOAD has raised in the regional market a total amount of FCFA
254.385 billion, including a bond loan issue in an amount of FCFA100 billion for the Special Food
Security Programme (PSSA). Thus, on an average annual basis, the amount of loans issued by BOAD
stood at FCFA50.878 billion between 2008 and 2012 (for a target of FCFA10 billion under the project).
This resulted in a gradual increase of the proportion of resources raised in the regional capital market in


                                                    31
relation to the Bank’s total borrowed resources. Indeed, such proportion of resources raised increased
from 35.7% over the period 2003-2007 to 51.2% over the period 2008-2012 6.

9. However, even if BOAD loan issues are floated on best market terms and conditions, the cost of
resources raised, ranging between 5 and 6% on average, still remains very high for funding non
commercial public sector in general, and economic infrastructure in particular. That is why, at Union
level, as intended under the second phase of the Regional Economic Programme (REP II), foreign
resources expected for supporting economic infrastructure would mainly include concessional loans and
grants. Consequently, BOAD will continue to require concessional resources as those provided under the
credit facility in order to contribute to regional infrastructure project financing.

10. With respect to the 2nd target of the sub-component, the Bank’s financial and risk management
system better fits in line with international standards. The institutional and technical support provided
under the project also allowed BOAD to implement and strengthen its environmental and social
management framework through the establishment of a unit. Building BOAD’s capacities resulted in the
preparation of a memorandum for credit rating. Effective evaluation of the Bank for a credit rating to be
released, is envisaged for the first half of 2013.

11. As regards the Regional Council (CREPMF), we noted a convergence of the regional capital market
regulation towards recommendations made by the International Organization of Securities Commissions.
Through project’s support, the Regional Council strengthened the information system infrastructure in
the market, thereby improving transparency and credibility of the regional capital market.

12. At last, nearly 2,000 participations were registered during the various training sessions organized for
all project beneficiaries.

13. Reforms in which the project participated included the following: i) definition and implementation of
a harmonized accounting system specific to approved market players; ii) harmonized stocks and
securities taxation in the Union member countries; iii) reform of guarantees and introduction of credit
rating; iv) establishment of a mortgage and securitization market; v) overall review of regulations
governing the regional capital market; vi) review of marketplace pricing; vii) preparation of a body of
sanctions against violations of rules and regulations and stock market offences.

14. These reforms underway will make it possible to work for a better unification of the regional market
and improved legal, regulatory and economic framework of market activities.

15. As regards, the project development goal, the two performance indicators selected included: i) the
number of non-sovereign issuers floating securities in the regional capital market; and, ii) the number of
companies listed on the Regional Stock Exchange (BRVM). As of 30 June 2012, the goal relating to the
first indicator was achieved by 96.0%, while the one relating to the second indicator was achieved by
76.0%.

16. Thus, reforms introduced by the project are not yet reflecting the increase expected from new issuers.
The reforms require some time before generating effects. However, the volume of loan issues gives a
pertinent view of market expansion. The amount of loan issues through the Regional Stock Exchange




6
    Data available as of 30 September 2012.



                                                    32
estimated on average at FCFA200 billion over the period 2005-2008, increased above FCFA350 billion
over the last four years (2009-2012), that is an increase of about 75%.

17. Incentives for listing new companies remained ineffective, including the proposed creation of a sub-
fund dedicated to SMEs/SMIs, as well as the sub-fund aimed at the privatization of public companies
through the regional capital market. However, it should be underscored that the proposed SME stock
sub-fund has been reactivated recently. Furthermore, even if the number of listed companies had
stagnated over the period, stock-market culture had blossomed in member countries as shown, among
others, by the number of transactions completed through intermediation companies. Hence, on an
average annual basis, this number increased from 17,830 in 2005-2008 to 22,156 in 2009-2012, or an
increase of about 25%.

18. The total amount of resources granted by IDA as part of the credit facility stood at FCFA45,835
million. The overall cost of the twelve (12) sub-projects financed from this facility, all donors put
together, stood at FCFA199,688 million. Additional resources raised to finance these sub-projects stood
at FCFA153,853 million, including          FCFA37,712 million to BOAD. The leverage effect of the
facility is thus valued at FCFA4.4, meaning that each CFA franc from the credit facility made it possible
to raise additional FCFA3.4 (or FCFA4.4 of overall funding). Long-term effects and impact on the
populations of the member countries are significant.

19. Nine (9) of eleven (11) sub-projects are selected under the first phase of the Regional Economic
Programme (REP I), which was a major regional infrastructure financing programme. Two others are
equally incorporated in two regional programmes, namely the “OMVS Regional Priority Road Network?
and the “WAEMU Regional Integration Assistance Fund?. The aggregate amount funded by BOAD
from the credit facility-supported sub-projects accounted for about 64% of the Bank’s contribution to the
funding of road projects selected under REP I between 2006 and 2010. Thus, the Regional Capital
Market Development Project (PDMF) was the key instrument of BOAD’s support to the reference
regional road programme adopted under REP I.

20. In physical terms, the credit-facility-supported sub-projects contributed to the rehabilitation, planning
and asphalting of 958.5 km of roads. The cumulative gain in terms of travel time over the various roads
involved can be estimated at 15 hours or 16 hours 30 minutes, whether or not urban road sections are
being taken into account. In addition to reduced travel time, the projects will contribute to improved road
safety and reduced transportation cost over these community roads called at times “corridors?.

21. At socio-economic level, the implementation of road projects made it possible to guarantee, at any
time and in any season, accessibility of the populations to bisected areas, basic social services and
further bring closer the said populations to decentralized government services. Furthermore, the
implementation of related work as part of the environmental and social management plans (ESMP) or at
the request of local residents, including the construction or rehabilitation of access tracks, the
rehabilitation of schools or health centres, the development of market gardens, the drilling of boreholes,
the improvement of water points, etc., will help improve the living conditions of local residents.


22. Finally, the implementation of road sub-projects under the credit facility will allow local producers
to buy inputs and sell out their productions at lower cost in major markets at any time of the year,
something that encourages agricultural development, tourism and handicraft.

23. At project close-out, the financial execution rate amounts to 94.19%. The analysis of this rate per
donor is as follows: 98.11% under the IDA credit, of which 100.04% for the credit facility component;


                                                     33
72.52% under the CIDA grant; 61.11% under the AFD grant, and 18.40% under the AFD Counterpart
Fund.


Difficulties experienced and factors affecting the implementation of the Regional Capital Market
Development Project

24. The project implementation was affected by internal and external factors which had an impact on its
performance as a whole.

25. The turnaround time of technical and financial partners, as a result of securing no-objection, was
often long during the first three years of the project. Technical and financial partners hardly complied
with the agreed two-week deadline to respond to such requests.

26. As noted with technical and financial partners, delays were also noted with beneficiaries in the
implementation of activities.

27. The key external factors that affected the project implementation included the global crunch (mainly
the sovereign debt crisis) on the one hand, and the socio-political crises in the member countries of the
Union between 2002 and 2011. The financial crisis mainly impeded the credit rating process undertaken
by BOAD.

28. Furthermore, the WAEMU region was affected by domestic socio-political events which equally
had an impact on the project implementation.

Lessons to be drawn from the project implementation

29. With respect to reforms undertaken under the project, one of the lessons to be drawn is that the
implementation of this type of operation requires relatively long processing times. This lesson should be
taken into account in designing future programmes.

30. In addition, the Regional Capital Market Development Project (PDMF) seems to have helped make
scale economies in contributing to supporting twelve projects under a single credit facility agreement
with IDA.

Prospects for future discussions about cooperation with technical and financial partners

31. As regards the regional capital market development, the strategic intervention frameworks of the
Union’s institutions (including BOAD’s 2014-2018 Strategic Plan, WAEMU’s 2013-2020 Strategic Plan
for the regional capital market, etc.) will spell out prospects for cooperation with technical and financial
partners of the Union in the regional capital market. In this vain, the mortgage market development
process might be an interesting approach for cooperation with technical and financial partners.

32. In connection with the “infrastructure credit facility? component, prospects may first be expressed in
terms of consolidated achievements under the Regional Capital Market Development Project and
infrastructure projects implemented in member countries, in general. These may also be expressed in
terms of continued implementation of the said projects as selected for the second phase of the Regional
Economic Programme for 2012-2016 (REP II) whose amount allocated to infrastructure financing stands
at FCFA4,957 billion, with only FCFA480 billion secured to date and the remaining FCFA3,803 billion
to be sought for. BOAD is the lead donor of this programme.



                                                    34
    33. Therefore, it would be pertinent to envisage the implementation of future support to REP II financing
    through BOAD, according to the credit facility model adopted under the Regional Capital Market
    Development Project.


                             Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR



    Overall Comments

1. Project outcome should be rated Satisfactory despite several shortcomings during implementation.
   Indeed, in addition to the LOC that was fully disbursed and contributed to the provision of regional
   infrastructure, project has supported important reforms aiming to deepen the regional financial markets
   and has also helped build institutions and reinforce capacity of key players of the regional capital market.

2. The ICR does not elaborate about possible area of collaboration between the WBG and BOAD. A certain
   of these areas were identified in our completion report and include the following: i) financing of
   infrastructure for the Regional Economic Program, ii) development of the regional mortgage market, iii)
   support to the BOAD PPP (strategy, PPP unit).

    Specific Comments

    Page 5: The report should put emphasis on some the following key factors that have affected project
    implementation: Delays in the issuance of no-objections from donors, in particular during the three first
    year of project implementation, ii) financial crisis that caused important delays to the rating process
    initiated by BOAD.

    Page VIII: Please note that disbursement under the line of credit is 100, 04 instead of 100.4

    Page 10: During the post electoral crisis in Cote d’Ivoire CREMPF relocated to Lome and BRVM
    relocated to Bamako.




                                                        35
                                          Annex 5
                               List of Supporting Documents


Development Credit Agreement.

ISR Sequence Nos. 1 to 17.

Mission Aide Memoires and Management Letters.

Project documents (IRIS).

World Bank, Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (July 11, 2001).

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document: WAEMU CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (2004)
.




                                              36
                                                                                       MOROCCO                    Ghardaia
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                  Tripoli      IBRD Bangha
                                                                                                                                                                    39837
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                        Marrakech                                                                MARCH 2013
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                     Tindouf               ALGERIA
                                                                       La'youn
                                                                                                                                                                LIBYA
                                                     FORMER
                                                     SPANISH
                                                     SAHARA
                                                                                                             Tamanrasset


                                                                   MAURITANIA
                               Nouakchott                                                      MALI
CAPE VERDE                                                                                                                          Agadez                      Faya-
                                                                                                  Tombouctou                                                    Largeau
                                                                            Nema

                               Dakar
                                                                                                                              NIGER
                   Praia                          SENEGAL                                                    Niamey                  Zinder                  CHAD
                                  Banjul
THE GAMBIA                                                                                BURKINA FASO                                                       N’Djamena
                                                                                 Bamako
                                       Bissau                                                      Ouagadougou               Kano     Maiduguri
GUINEA-BISSAU                                                      GUINEA




                                                                                                          BENIN
                                             Conakry                                                                         NIGERIA
                                                                                  CÔTE




                                                                                                       TOGO
                                             Freetown                                                                            Abuja
                                        SIERRA LEONE                             D’IVOIRE
                                                                               Yamoussoukro    GHANA          Lagos                          CENTRAL
                                                           Monrovia
                                                                                               Accra
                                                                                                       Lomé Porto Novo              CAMEROON AFRICAN
                                                                     LIBERIA                                                                   REP.
                                                                                    Abidjan                                         Douala
                                                                                                                        Malabo                                 Bangui
                                                                                                                                              Yaoundé
                                                                                               EQUATORIAL GUINEA
                                                                                            SÃO TOMÉ & PR?NCIPE  Bata
                                                                                                                  São Tomé               Libreville




                                                                                                                                                                       D.R. OF CONGO
                                                                                                                                                      CONGO
                                                                                                                                     GABON
                                                  FRANCOPHONE
                                                  WEST AFRICA
                                                                                                                                        Brazzaville
                                                                                                                              Pointe-Noire
                                                                                                                                                            Kinshasa
                                                                                                                                   Cabinda
                                                                                                                                 (ANGOLA)         ANGOLA
