                                                                            49575


                                       THAILAND

                        HIGHWAYSMANAGEMENT PROJECT

           PROJECT PAPERFOR SECOND ORDER RESTRUCTURING

                          EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                          EASIN

Date:July 8,2009                                   Task TeamLeader:Zhi Liu
                                                   Sector Managermirector:John Roome




Responsibleagency:Departmentof Highways




Current ClosingDate:September30,2009
RevisedClosing Date [ifapplicable]: June 30,2010
Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved         -
RVPapproved            - X

Doesthe restructured project requireany exceptions to Bankpolicies?  -Yes XNo
Havethese beenapproved by Bankmanagement?                            -Yes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?         -Yes &No

Revisedprojectdevelopmentobjective/outcomes

The project development objective/outcomeshavenot beenchanged.

Does the restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies? No

                              RevisedFinancing:Plan KJS$m)


IBRD/IDA
Total

                                        THAILAND

                       HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENTPROJECT

           PROJECTPAPERFORSECOND ORDERRESTRUCTURING


I.Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe RegionalVice Presidentto introduce
the following changes to the Thailand Highways Management Project (Project ID
PO75173, LoanNo. 47210): (a) to reallocate the Loan proceeds that remainuncommitted
because o f the cancellation of two consultancies to finance additional activities (mainly
civil works) within the same scope o fthe Project andto modify the project outputs
accordingly; (b) to extend the Loan Closing Date to June 30,2010 (which would be the
third extension ofthe closingdate); (c) to addressthe slight discrepancies inthe
formulation o fthe Project Development Objective (PDO) between the ProjectAppraisal
Document (PAD) and LoanAgreement; and (d) to make amendments to the Loan
Agreement accordingly.

2.      The implementing agency is the Departmento f Highways (DOH). Duringthe
project implementation, there were allegations o f improper influenceto the procurement
processes o ftwo consultancies. These were investigated by the Bank's Department o f
Institutional Integrity(INT), which substantiated the allegationinone o f the
procurements. Giventhe high-risk environment and at the request o fthe Bank, the D O H
cancelled the procurement processes, collaborated with the Bank ina Procurement
Capacity Assessment, and agreedto adopt a set o f measuresto addressthe procurement
risks and strengthen the DOHprocurement system. Inthis process, the Bank Task Team
was assisted by the INT's Preventive Service Unit. The restructuring i s proposed mainly
to address the project implementationproblems caused by the failed procurement
processes for the two consultancies andto makeproductive use o fthe uncommittedLoan
funds for achievingthe project outcomes. Relevantmeasuresto addressthe procurement
risks will be appliedto the remainingprocurements under the restructuring, as described
inparagraph23 below.

3.      An Additional Financingto the Highways Management Project is beingprepared
inparallelto this restructuring. TheAdditional Financingwill mainly support the
wideningo f five priority nationalhighway stretches, totaling 216km. Giventhe
uncertaintiming o fthe Parliamentary approval o f this Additional Financing, it has been
decided to process the restructuring first as the D O H is ready to usethe uncommitted
Loan proceeds for the much-neededperiodic maintenance works, which are also expected
to be helpfulfor the businesses o f small- andmedium-sized construction enterprises at
the time o f economic downturn.

11.Background

4.      The Loanfor the HighwaysManagement Project was approved onDecember 9,
2003, andbecame effective on March 15,2004. There was a one-year extension o f the

                                               2

Closing Date from June 30,2008 to June 30,2009. This was followed recently by a
second extension of three months to September 30,2009, to allow sufficient time for the
processing o f the restructuring. The total disbursed balance o f the Loan as o f June 30,
2009 is US$65.17 million, which represents 77.3 percent o fthe loan commitment of
US$84.29 million.

5.      The PDO specified inthe Loan Agreement is to assist the Borrower inenhancing
the efficiency, productiveuse, andmanagement ofthe roadnetwork, through: (a) the
commercializationo fthe road sector by introducing betterbusiness principles and
increased private sector participationinthe construction andmaintenance o f roads; (b)
the strengtheningofinstitutionalcapacity and modernizationofthe DOH; (c) sustainable
road maintenance programs to preserve road assets; and (d) the enhancement o f road
safety aimedto reduce traffic fatalities andinjuries.

6.      The projecthas four components and 14 sub-components, as follows:

        A. HighwayMaintenance:(1) periodic maintenance of about 700 kmofpriority
            national highways; (2) a five-year pilot program o f highway performance-
            basedmaintenance o f about 900 kmof national highways; (3) the supervision
            ofperiodic maintenance androad safety improvements; and (4) the study,
            design, and supervision o fperformance-based maintenance contracts.
        B. HighwayUpgradingandIntersectionImprovement:(1) wideningthree
            selected sections (73 km intotal) o f highway network from two to four lanes;
            (2) construction o fthree overpasses at critical intersections; and (3) the
            supervision o f the widening and overpass civil works.
        C. RoadSafety Improvement: (1) improvement o f conditions o f hazardous
            locations; and (2) support for the implementationo fthe road safety action
            planincollaborationwiththe Global Road Safety Partnership, andthe
            establishment and operation o f a roads accidents research center.
        D. InstitutionalStrengthening:(1) institutional strengtheningofthe DOH
            through (a) development o f a centralized road database, road asset
            maintenance andmanagement system, and a bridgemanagement system; (b)
            development o f a framework for and a case study onpublic-private
            partnershipsinhighways; (c) strengthening capacity inproject coordination;
            and (d) introductionof a highway specific e-procurement system; and (2)
            external audit.
7.      ProjectImplementationProgress. The project implementationprogress had               .
been satisfactory untilmid-2006 whenthe Bankreceived allegations o f improper
influence to the procurement processes for two consultancies, A-4 and D-1(a) (see
paragraph 2 above for the Bank's response). A summary o f the project performance
ratings recorded inthe ISRs i s given inAnnex 1. Since mid-2006, the implementation
progress has beenrated as "moderately satisfactory" (MS)while the DOHmade effort to
resolve the procurement issues and to ensure the achievement o f the PDO. All MS and
unsatisfactory (U) ratings on ISR #4, #5, #6, and #7 (except the MS rating for M&E) are
directly relatedto the failure o f the procurement processes of the two consultancies. As a
result o fthe satisfactory implementation progress for the other components o f the project,

                                              3

the key outcomehmpact indicators reported inthe latest ISR #7 suggest that the targets
are either achieved or being achieved andthat the project i s on track to achieve its PDO
(see Annex 2). It i s expected that the restructuring would provide further assurance for
the achievement ofPDO.

8.      LegalCompliance. The project has beenincompliance withthe Loan
Agreement, except for Schedule 5, paragraph 5 (b) "Prepare andfurnishto the Bank a
report integratingthe results o f the monitoring and evaluation activities and settingout
measuresto ensure efficient execution and achievement o f objectives" which was rated as
"Partially Complied with" on ISR#4 and #5. The rating was based onthe slow progress
incollectingandthus reportingthe datafor projectmonitoringindicators. Itbecame
fully compliedwith inISRs#6 and#7.

9.      The loan fund allocation andthe disbursedamount so far for each sub-component
are shown inAnnex 3. There i s a total of US$19.12 million inundisbursedLoan
proceeds underthe project. These include: (a) Loanfunds originally allocated to sub-
components A-4 and D-1(a); (b) remainingLoanfunds from the completed sub-
components; and (c) Loanproceeds allocated to sub-component A-2 whose
implementationby designdepends on the progress o f A-4 and i s not possible due to the
cancellation o fprocurement process for A-4.

10.     The restructuring is proposedto make productiveuse o fthe uncommittedLoan
funds to finance: (a) the periodic maintenance ofmore national highways underthe sub-
component A-1; (b) an individual consultant to assist the D O Hto study the feasibility o f
a performance-based contract (PBC) andto design a pilot PBC for the maintenance o f a
150 kmmotonvay; and (c) an international procurement consultant to assist the DOHto
preparethe biddocuments for the five roadwidening sub-projects proposed for additional
financing.  The last activity is amongthe recommended measuresto strengthenthe DOH
procurement capacity.

11.     Periodic maintenanceworks. So far, the DOHhas disbursed US$28.82 million
for periodic maintenance works totaling 610 kmunder the subcomponent A-1. There are
ten packages o f periodic maintenance works (totaling 63 km) under implementationwith
a committed amount o f US$4.60 millionfrom the Loanproceeds available inthe Works
category. The DOHproposes to finance periodic maintenance o f more national highways
usingthe uncommittedloanfunds. The BankTask Teamconsiders the proposal
appropriate as there i s substantial needfor periodic maintenance o f the national highways
inThailand, aneedmore thantheprojectandthe current government budgetallocation
could meet. The implementationo f additionalperiodic maintenance activities would
enhance the achievement o fthe PDO. The D O H has prepared 37 packages o f additional
periodic maintenance works (totaling 289 km) which have beenreviewed and cleared by
the Bank team. These packages are ready for disbursement, as the contracts hadbeen
awarded through the national competitive biddingprocess andthe special provisions, as
set out inSchedule 4 o fthe Loan Agreement, but not yet signed pendingthe Bank's
approval o f the restructuring.

12.     Sub-componentD-l(a). After the termination o fthe procurement process for D-
1(a), D O Hdecided to use its own funds to support the development o f a pavement

                                              4

management system (PMS) and a bridgemaintenance and management system (BMMS),
which are the two key missingelements o fthe originally-envisaged consultancy. The
technical works for the PMS andBMMSare on-going andhave regularly beenreviewed
andsupervised by the Bank Task Team. The Loanfundoriginally allocatedto D-1(a)
(US$2.30 million) remains uncommitted.

 13.    Sub-componentA-4. After the termination ofthe procurement process for A-4,
the DOHproposed to introduce a pilot performance-based contract (PBC) for the
maintenance o f a 150kmstretch of D O Hmotonvay ingood condition, instead o f 900 km
nationalhighways as originally envisaged for the consultancy. The BankTask Team
considered the proposal a manageable alternative within the timeframe o fthe restructured
project for introducingthe PBC practice to Thailand, as no design and implementationo f
rehabilitationworks would be requiredbefore the PBC takes effect and the PBC itself
could be funded by the toll revenueso f the motorway. The Bank Task Team assistedthe
D O Hto draft a TOR for an individual internationalconsultant who would assist the D O H
to develop a pilot PBC intwo phases, with the first phase (3 months) to reviewand
analyze the applicability o f PBC to the D O Hmotonvay, andthe second phase (about 3
months) to design and draft a model PBC for the DOHmotonvay. The cost for the
consultant services is estimated to be US$160,000,92 percent o f which would be funded
from the Loanproceeds. There will be US$2.06 million inuncommittedLoans fund
from A-4.

14.     Sub-componentA-2. This sub-component was designedto implementthe civil
works under three long-term pilot contracts for performance-based maintenance o f about
900 kmo f national highways. As envisaged at Appraisal, the implementationo fthis sub-
component would depend onthe completion o f the designandprocurement of the
performance-based maintenance contracts, key tasks defined under sub-component A-4.
Due to the proposed change inthe scope o f the PBC consultancy andthe limitedtime
available before project closing, it is not possible to implement A-2. Therefore, the Loan
fund allocated to this sub-component (US$12.98 million) is uncommitted.

15.     Sub-componentD-4(d). The sub-component was envisaged inthe PAD to
support the DOHto develop and implement a highway specific e-procurement system,
with funding ofUS$lOO,OOO from the DOHcounterpart fund. However, startingin2004,
the Ministryof Finance (MOF) required the government line agenciesincludingthe DOH
to use the e-procurement systemdeveloped by the MOF andto disclose procurement
informationto the public through the government procurement website and the line
agency's websites. As a result, this sub-component has not been implemented. Iti s
proposed that this sub-component be dropped from the project through the restructuring.

16.     PDO Discrepanciesbetweenthe PAD andthe LoanAgreement. A Bank
reviewo fthe PDO formulationspecified inthe LoanAgreement (see paragraph 5 above)
andthe PAD found slight discrepancies. The PADversion is as follows: "The
development objective o f the project i s to enhance the efficiency, productive use, and
management o f the road network. The project will: (a) support the commercialization o f
the road sector by introducingbetter business principles and increased private sector
participationinthe delivery andmanagement o f roads; (b) strengthenthe operations o f
the Department o fHighways (DOH) through improveduse of informationtechnology

                                              5

and computerization; (c) help preserve road assets through sustainable maintenance
programs including long-term performance based contracts; and (d) improve competition
andtransparency inthe awardof contracts by usinge-procurement. Furthermore, the
project will reduce traffic accidents and fatalities on national highways and decentralize
the implementationofperiodicmaintenance to the districts." Itis proposed as partofthe
project restructuring to revertto the PDO formulation specified inthe Loan Agreement.

111.ProposedChawes

17.    The changes underthe restructuring will include the following:

           A-2 (a five-year program o f highway performance-based maintenance on
           selected sections o f the Borrower's highway network, located inthe central,
           southern andnorthernprovinces, totaling about 900 km, through contracts to
           private contractors): cancel the sub-component andreallocate the Loan
           proceeds to additional periodic maintenance civil works;
           A-4 (provision o ftechnical assistance for the study, design, and supervision o f
           performance-based maintenance contracts): change the scope and cost o fthe
           sub-component to an individual consultant to assist the D O Hto study the
           feasibility o f PBC andto designa pilot PBC for the maintenance o f a 150 km
           motonvay ingood condition (estimated US$150,000 fiom Loanproceeds),
           andreallocate the remainingLoanproceeds (US$2.06 million) to the "Works"
           category;
           D-1(a) (development ofa centralized roaddatabase, roadassetmaintenance
           andmanagement system, and a bridge management system): change the
           fundingsourceto the government's own funds only, andreallocate the
           remaining Loan proceeds (US$2.30 million) to the "Works" category;
           D-1(d) (thedevelopment andimplementationofahighways specific e-
           procurement system connected to the Borrower's e-procurement platform):
           cancel the sub-component;
           Finance about 37 periodic maintenance contracts, totaling 289 km(estimated
           US$l9 million from Loan proceeds);
           Finance an international individual procurement consultant to assist the DOH
           withthe preparation o fbiddocuments for the civil works andall other
           procurement matters under the proposed Additional Financing(estimated
           us$loo,ooo);
           Allocate the Loanproceeds inan amount o f US$2.01 millionunder the
           "Unallocated" category to the "Works" category;
           Revert the PDO formulation to the Loan Agreement version;
           As a result ofthe reallocation of Loanproceeds, the allocation o f Loan
           proceeds to the "Works" category will be changed to US$79.62 millionandto
           the "Consultant's Services, includingaudits" category will be changedto
           US$4.67 million. The percentage o f IBRDfinancing ineach category will
           remainunchanged.

                                              6

 18.    With the restructuring, the following output indicatorsspecified inSchedule 7 of
the LoanAgreement will bemodifiedto read as follows:

        0   Output Indicator 1.2 (Periodic maintenance of about 960 kmo fprojectroads
            completed usingconventional contracting methods with SME's);

        0   Output indicator 1.3 (Pilot long-termperformance-based management and
            maintenance contract designedfor 150 kmmotorway); and

        0   Output indicator 4.2 (i.e. Web-based procurement, business-oriented
            performance-based contracting system established and operational by end o f
            project) will be dropped.
 19.    The Closing Date for the restructured project will be June 30,2010.

IV. Analvsis

20.     EconomicAnalysis. The project's mainbenefits are the savings accrued to road
users on vehicle operating costs, passenger time costs andaccident costs, and the
preservation o f the DOHroadnetwork inan efficient and sustainable manner. The
internalrate o f return for the periodic maintenance civil works was estimated 64 percent
at appraisal. As the same procedure adopted under the project for the selection of roads
for periodic maintenance i s used, the internalrate o f return i s expected to remain highfor
the additionalperiodic maintenance works.

21,     Technical. The DOHis an experienced roadorganization andhas managedthe
design and implementation o f a large number o fperiodic maintenance civil works on its
roadnetwork. There i s no technical issue for the periodic maintenance civil works to be
fundedunderthis proposed restructuring. The DOHhas in-house technicalcapacity and
its own resources to carry out the construction supervision for the periodic maintenance
civil works, and its engineering supervision capacity will be supplemented by the three
individual consultants who have beenhiredto provide the specialized technical support
duringcontract supervision.

22.     FinancialManagement. The DOHwill continue to be the implementing agency
withthe same financial management arrangement for the additionalactivities underthe
restructured project. The performance o fproject financial management has been
reviewedregularlythroughthe periodic supervision missions andfound satisfactory. The
quarterlyinterimfinancial reports together with detailed discussion o fthe project
progress have beensubmittedregularly and reviewedby the Bank. Audit reports have
beensubmittedon time withunqualifiedopinions.

23.    Procurement. Inthe context ofallegations o f improper influence to the
procurement processes for A-4 andD-l(a) and as part o f the preparationo f the proposed
Additional Financing, the Bank Task Team carried out a procurement capacity
assessmentincollaboration with the DOH, The purpose o f the assessmentwas to
identify weaknesses inthe DOHprocurement system and identify measures to strengthen
the system. The DOHhas agreed inprinciple to adopt a set ofrecommended measures
underthe Additional Financing. Underthe restructuredproject, all 37 additional periodic

                                              7

maintenance packageshave beenawarded. The remaining procurement activities include
the hiringo ftwo individual consultants: (a) an international individual consultant for the
study anddesignofPBC for the maintenance of 150kmmotorway; and(b) an
international procurement consultant. The Bank's new Consultant Guidelines (Le.
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
publishedbythe BankinMay 2004 andrevisedinOctober 2006) will be applied, in
order to strengthen the procurement processes underthe restructured project.

24.     Safeguards. The project is a Category Bproject. The EnvironmentalMitigation
Plans (EMP) and Environment and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF) have been
implementedsatisfactorily. Forthe new activities, the same ESSFwill be adopted. The
Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) is not requiredas there are no landacquisitions or
resettlement issues associatedwith the proposed activities.

25.     ExpectedOutcomes. The proposed restructuring will not affect the outcome
indicators specified inthe LoanAgreement and PAD. There will be no changes inthe
agreed monitoring framework, except the proposed changes inthe outputs (see paragraph
18).

26.     Benefitsand Risks. The proposed activities will serve broadly the same groups
o f beneficiaries. As all additional activities will be carried out by the same implementing
agency under the same project implementationarrangement, there i s no additional risk
incurred.




                                                8

   Annex 1:Thailand HighwaysManagementProject:A Summary of ISR Ratings




Project Component 1            S         MS          MS            MS          S
Project Component 2            S          S           S             S          S
Project Component 3            S          S           S             S          S
Project Component 4            S          U          U             MS          MS




                    Annex 2: Thailand HighwaysManagementProject:
        Status of Agreed OutcomesIndicatorsRecordedinISR #7 (12/10/2008)

                                    BaselineValue    Progressto Date    End-of-Project
PDOIndicator                                                             TargetValue
1. Reducedaverage unit costkm o f 403 Baht/m2        332.27 baht/m2    10% reduction
maintenance in real terms
2. Asset value o f road network    291.28 million    298.02 million    0.2% increase
increased by 0.2% by EOP (or       Bahtkm for'       Bahtkm for
decline reversed)                  maintenance       maintenance
                                   project sections, project sections,
                                   and 32.32 million and 44.28 million
                                   Bahtkm for 3      Bahtkm for 3
                                   widening project  widening project
                                   sections          sections
3. Reducedvehicle operating costs  4.68 Baht per     4.56 Baht per     10-15% reduction
by 10-15% ontarget roads           vehicle-km        vehicle-km
4. National road database          Not existed       DOHhas started    Established and
established, updated annually, and                   work on data      functional
used for planning, programming,                      warehouse,
budgeting,and monitoring o f                         completed some
highway investments and                              systems, and is
maintenance expenditures                             developing the
                                                     pavement
                                                     management
                                                     system




                                             9

    T         T   -r T
        2  x
           P     0      t
        0        2      1
           3            c




        m
        3
        0               r




        3 7      8
        3  10    0
                        !



                 2      r

                 0




                 x
                 m

                        C
                             0
                             3




Bee              0      ?
kQ               2      i


i2

C
Q
d



C
8e0a

V
B

                        f

