Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17606
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 3349-IND)
March 30, 1998
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =        Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$ 1.00                  =        Rp 8,000
Rp 1,000                  =        US$ 0.125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (t)             =         1.00 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)                  =        0.0063 barrels (bbi)
1 kilometer (km)             =        0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)              =         1,000 volts (V)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)      =         1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVa)
1 Megawatt (MW)              =         1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
FISCAL YEAR OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                          Asian Development Bank
GOI                          Government of Indonesia
DSC                          Debt Service Coverage
EIRR                         Economic Internal Rate of Return
ICCF                         Industrial Consumers Connection Fund
IDC                          Interest During Construction
IMF                          Intemational Monetary Fund
PLN                          State Electrcitv Corporation [PT PLN
(Persero)]
ROR                          Rate of Return
Regional Vice President:               Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:                      Dennis De Tray, EACIF
Sector Manager:                        Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                          Yuling Zhou, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ..............i
Evaluation Summary .............                                               ii
Part I    Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B. Achievement of Objectives                        .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                 .7
D. Project Sustainability                        .8
E. Bank Performance                             .9
F.    Borrower Performance ..................9
G. Assessment of Outcome                          .0
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .10
Part II   Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3:  Project Timetable .17
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements .17
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7:     Studies included in the Project .19
Table 8A: Project Costs .20
Table 8B:  Project Financing .21
Table 9:     Economic Costs & Benefits (EIRR) .21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .24
Annexes
Annex 1. Mission's Aide Memoire .25
Annex 2. Operations Plan .29
Annex 3. Borrower's Evaluation Report .31
Annex 4.  Ex-post Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return .34
Annex 5. PLN's Key Financial Indicators .36
Map:      IBRD No. 22597
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3349-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Transmission
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 3349-IND, in the amount of US$ 275 million
equivalent was approved on June 19, 1991 and made effective on November 4, 1991.
The loan closing date was extended by nine months, to September 30, 1997
(original closing date was December 31, 1996). A partial loan proceeds cancellation in the
amount of US$ 103.4 million was made in November 1994. The loan account was closed
in March 1998, with an undisbursed balance of US$ 8.9 million canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Yuling Zhou, Operations Officer, and Kurt Schenk,
Power Specialist", EASEG, and endorsed by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector Manager, EASEG,
and Dennis De Tray, Country Director, EACIF.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in August 1997 prior to the Bank's ICR
mission to Indonesia in November 1997. It is based on materials in the project file, and on
information and comments provided by the implementing agency, PT PLN (Persero). The
aide memoire of the ICR mission is attached as Annex A. The borrower's own evaluation
report is attached as Annex C.



ii
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3349-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Bank involvement in the electricity subsector in Indonesia began in 1968. For the
first two decades, the focus was first on the creation of a national electric utility (which
occurred in 1972) and then on system expansion. By the time of the late eighties,
attention was lbeginning to shift more to sectoral efficiency. The Power Transmission
Project supported not only the traditional objective of system development by financing
PLN's transmission network expansion needs, but also the institutional development
objective through technical assistance. The total amount of the loan was US$ 275.0
nmillion. The loan was signed on August 8, 1991, and became effective on November 4,
1991. The loan closing date was extended by nine months to September 30, 1997.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall objective of the project was to expand, strengthen and upgrade the
transmission facilities for the Java-Bali system to supply electricity to new consumers and
to meet increases in electricity demand arising from existing and new consumers. To
support this overall objective, the project had three specific objectives:
(i) Physical objective: to ensure that investments in power transmission facilities
proceed at an appropriate level to supply electricity to new consumers and to
meet increase in electricity demand in Java, by strengthening and upgrading
the Java-Bali transmission system.
(ii) Institutional objective: to improve PLN's capability in long-term planning of
transmission systems, by providing technical assistance in long-term
development of the transmission system in Java-Bali.
(iii) Financial objective: to promote measures for strengthening PLN's financial
position by establishing an institutional mechanism to review and advise the
Government on all price adjustments in the energy sector.



iii
3.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
important, clear and, for the most part, realistic.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project's outcome was satisfactory.  It was successful in substantially
achieving physical and institutional objectives. These achievements would seem to be
likely sustainable. Physical program targets were generally met, though not on time in
some cases. The technical assistance components were in general successful. The re-
estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is 17.7 percent, slightly above the
SAR's estimate of 17 percent.
5.    The actual cost of the project (excluding Interest During Construction -- IDC) was
US$ 240.0 million, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$ 355.9 million. The main
cost difference was on the transmission investment component, where much-lower-than-
expected contract prices were obtained after bidding. This cost savings resulted in a large
cancellation of the loan in the amount of US$ 103.4 million in December 1994 upon the
request of the Borrower. The remaining undisbursed balance of about US$ 8.9 million was
canceled in March 1998 when the loan account was closed.
6.    Project implementation experienced a delay of about one and a half years
compared to the SAR estimate of time for physical completion in March 1996. This delay
was mainly caused by procurement delays and difficulties in acquisition of land for
transmission substations and obtaining of right of ways for transmission lines.
7.    Both the Bank's and the Borrower's performance under the project has generally
been satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    The outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project met most of its physical,
institutional objectives and the benefits from the project are likely to be sustainable.
9.    It is expected that the project will be operated as planned.  The physical
components have been taken over by PLN's various operational departments, become an
integrated part of PLN's operations and will be productive for many years. Results and
recommendations from the technical assistance have already been or are being
incorporated into PLN's planning practices. The Bank will continue to monitor the
project's operation through its on-going lending and institutional development programs
and policy dialogue with GOI/PLN. Operational plans to ensure the sustainability of the
outcome achieved under the project were discussed with PLN during the ICR mission and
are attached to this ICR.
10.   Several specific key lessons, which have operational implications for the design of
future power sector projects, can be drawn from this project:



iv
(a) Establishment of a central Project Management Unit (PMU) at PLN head
office could have benefited the overall project coordination and accountability.
(b) Cumbersome procurement processes are a leading cause of project
impleimentation delays: PLN's procurement process results in a lengthy
procurement cycle adding delays and unnecessary costs to projects that it
undertakes. Speedier procurement processing and more efficient inventory
management and materials handling are key to increasing the efficiency of its
investment program.
(c) Action on land acquisition should be taken early on during project
preparation stage: To ensure smooth project implementation, land acquisition
should be completed before the project implementation starts, or a realistic and
concrete time-bound action plan should be developed and followed through
with close monitoring from both the Bank and the implementing agency.
(d) Performance targets: While the output targets were satisfactorily achieved, the
project did not have any outcome or impact indicators to measure the
performance of PLN's power transmission system in Java. Explicit performance
monitoring has since built in the Bank's most recent transmission project, the
Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project, which includes broader
outcorne targets, such as transmission losses and outages, in addition to the
conventional output or construction targets.
(e) Focus on organization rather than just on studies or planning: The
project's focus on institutional development solely through a system planning
study can in hindsight be viewed as overly narrow. The importance of broader
organizational issues for transmission performance was recognized under the
recent Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project which is supporting
the establishment of an "investment center" within PLN to have overall
--                  responsibility for PLN's transmission planning, construction and operation in
Java. This arrangement is expected to lead to major improvement in PLN's
transmission development coordination and performance.
(f) More attention should be given on accurate cost estimate: A large portion
of the loan (about 40%) was canceled. Given that the physical construction
activities have been basically completed, the substantial cancellations do raise
questions on the accuracy of cost estimates. While international competitive
bidding may have resulted in lower-than-expected contract prices, over
conservative cost estimate may have been the main reason for the cancellations.
More attention should therefore be given in future projects on the accuracy of
cost estimate and on application of contingencies.  Furthermore, project
descriptions in the legal agreements should be more flexible to allow utilization
of cost savings towards meeting the broad project objectives.



POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 3349-IND)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objective of the project was to meet the increasing electricity demand in
the Java island of Indonesia by strengthening and upgrading the Java-Bali transmission
system. The project had three main objectives:
(I) Physical objective: to ensure that investments in power transmission facilities
proceed at an appropriate level to supply electricity to new consumers and to
meet increases in electricity demand in Java, by strengthening and upgrading
the Java-Bali transmission system:
(a)  by extending about 41 existing substations of 150 kV and 70 kV,
;including addition of transforming capacity of about 1,870 MVA;
(b)  by constructing about 18 new  substations of 150 kV, including
transforming capacity of about 1,150 MVA;
(c)  by installing reactive power compensation equipment of about 350
MVAR in about 29 substations;
(d)  by acquiring about two mobile substations of 150/20 kV, with total
capacity of about 40 MVA;
(e)  by reconductoring about 6 route-km of 70 kV and about 51 route-km of
150 kV transmission lines;
(f)  by constructing about 241 route-km of 150 kV transmission lines,
including about 14 km of underground lines;
(g)  by constructing new substations and transmission lines for supplying
new industrial consumers at 150 kV; and
(h)  by establishing a special fund -- the Industrial Consumers Connection
Fund (ICCF) to finance the construction of new transmission facilities
for supplying industrial consumers.



- 2 -
(i) by providing technical assistance in engineering, design and construction
supervision of substations and transmission lines included in the project.
(2) Institutional objective: to improve PLN's capability in long-term planning of
transmission systems, by providing technical assistance in long-term
development of the transmission system in Java-Bali.
(3) Financial objective: to promote measures for strengthening PLN's financial
position.
2.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
important, clear and, for the most part, realistic.
3.-    Financial covenants:  The Loan Agreement included financial covenants. Of
these, the most important ones were to achieve annually an eight per cent rate of return on
PLN's Java operations and to achieve break-even on PLN's outside-Java operations
beginning FY1991/92. In 1994, both covenants were replaced under Loan 3761-IND
(Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project) by a single eight percent rate-of-return
covenant for PLN's entire operation in Indonesia.
B. ACHIIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overall Project Objective
4.    Overall objective: The overall objective of the project was to expand, strengthen
and upgrade the transmission facilities for the Java-Bali system to supply electricity to new
consumers and to meet increases in electricity demand arising from existing and new
consumers. With the successful completion of the physical investment components of the
project, this overall objective has been substantially achieved.
5.    Internal rate of return: For practical purposes, it is impossible to separate out
the benefits attributable to the individual power projects that form a part of a least-cost
investment plan. Project justification was therefore based in the SAR on PLN's entire
investment program for Java for the time period, 1990/91-1994/95, of which the project's
investment component was envisaged to be a part. This delivered a forecast economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) of 17 percent. This EIRR has been recalculated using
updated data for the period 1990/91-1996/97 which, due to implementation delays, is the
period the project ended up covering. The re-estimated EIRR is 17.7 percent. The
detailed ex-post EIRR calculation is presented in Annex D.
In addition, the project was also to provide technical assistance to PLN in identification and construction of new
power plants, including (i) engineering, design and construction supervision of Units 5, 6, and 7 of the Suralaya
coal-fired power plant in West Java; and (ii) site selection and feasibilitv study for a new thermal power plant
in West Java.



-3 -
Review of Physical Objectives
6.    Extension of Existing Substations: A total of 52 existing substations of 150 kV
and 70 kV were extended by adding new equipment and increasing transforming capacity.
This has exceeded the SAR target of 41 substations. The transforming capacity added
was 1,740 MVA, which fell a little short of the SAR target of 1,870 MVA.
7.    Construction of New Substations: A total of 19 new substations of 150 kV
were built with a total transforming capacity of 1,270 MVA. They included 2 mobile
substations of 150/20 kV with a total capacity of 40 MVA. This meets the original SAR
targets.
8.    Reactive Power Compensation Equipment:  Reactive power compensation
equipment (capacitors) of 350 MVAR was installed in 40 substations in Java. The original
SAR targets have been met.
9.    Transmiission Lines: A total of 297.5 route-km of 150 kV transmission lines
(including some underground lines) was planned to be constructed in 19 locations in Java.
This length was based on a rough estimate after preliminary survey. Due to cancellation
of three planned transmission lines during project implementation, the actual transmission
lines constructed accounted for 182 route-km (including 12 km 150 kV underground
cables).
10.  Industrial Consumers Connection Fund (ICCF): The project was also to
support establishment of a special fund -- the Industrial Consumers Connection Fund
(ICCF) -- of about US$20 million to finance construction of new transmission facilities for
supplying large industrial consumers at 150 kV. At the time of project appraisal, PLN
required a lead time of about three years (from location of sources of finance,
procurement of equipment and materials, to construction and erection of transmission
facilities) to respond to requests from large industrial consumers for power supply. The
concept behind the ICCF was to reduce or eliminate the time taken for location of funds
and procurement of equipment, so as to enable PLN to respond to consumer needs much
faster. To this end, a portion of the fund was to be utilized for maintaining a revolving
stock of standard equipment and the balance of the fund was to be used for non-standard
equipment and urgent requirements.
11.  Implementation of the ICCF was not satisfactory. Out of the US$15 million
allocated from the Bank loan for setting-up of the ICCF, only US$6.6 million was utilized
mainly in West Java area and the balance was canceled upon the request of PLN.
Although PLN also carried out a Large Consumer Connection Program (PKB) using its
own financing, the original idea of establishing a revolving stock of standard equipment
and materials was in fact not implemented. There are only about 50 150 kV customers in
Java. These customers all require customized equipment so the helpfulness of establishing
a revolving stock is questionable.  Moreover, given the delays associated with
procurement under Bank financing, it is not clear that utilizing Bank financing would



-4 -
speed up customer connections. Finally, since a high-voltage connection is usually
associated with the construction of new facilities by the applicant, such as a new factory,
its implementation period is typically a matter of years rather than months. Such a time
period should provide ample time for the procurement of the required equipment, which
again calls into question the utility of the proposed revolving stock. It is noticeable that
the SAR contained only one paragraph on the ICCF, and no reference to any study
providing a justification or design.
12.   It should be noted, however, that US$6.6 million spent under the ICCF component
was not wasted. It was used to purchase equipment and materials which have been
utilized for connecting to large industrial consumers.
13.   Compared to the original loan size (US$275 million, including US$30 million
unallocated, and US$220 million allocated for the physical components), a very large
portion (US$103.4 million, or 38percent of the total loan) was canceled, due to much-
lower-than-expected contract prices after bidding and conservative cost estimates at the
project appraisal.   Notwithstanding this large cancellation, the original physical
components have been completed successfully.
14.   A substantial delay (about one and a half years) was experienced during
implementation, which led to an extension of the loan closing date by nine months. The
delay was mainly caused by procurement delays and difficulties that PLN encountered in
land acquisition -and obtaining right of ways in particular in the most populated and
developed West Java and Jakarta area. Another factor contributed to the delay was
insufficient commissioning personnel (both in terms of quantity and quality) on project
sites.
15.   The main shortcoming of the project design with regards to its physical objectives
was the lack of any outcome or impact indicators as distinct from output indicators. Thus,
while the output objectives of the project were all very satisfactorily achieved, it is very
difficult to say if the broader objective of strengthening and upgrading the Java-Bali
transmission system was satisfactorily achieved. More recent analysis shows that while
the transmission system has been expanded and significantly improved over the last
decade, bottlenecks and overloading are still common, not surprisingly for a system with
demand growing at close to 15percent p.a. The Bank's more recent transmission project,
the Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project, includes broader outcome
targets such as transmission losses and outages to enable better tracking of performance.
The loading of transformers and lines is also now being monitored.



-5 -
Review of Technical Assistance/Institutional Development Objectives
16.   Engineering, design and  construction  supervision  of substations and
transmission lines financed under the project:  Three  consulting  contracts  were
signed and executed in this connection respectively for the three subcomponents of West
Java/Jakarta, Central Java and East Java. All the contracts were started in late 1992 or
early 1993 but were terminated at different times. For the East Java subcomponent, the
consultants completed their work in end 1994 according to the original schedule, and the
remaining construction supervision work (only for installation of transformers) was
continued and completed by PLN staff. The West Java/Jakarta consultant contract was
extended once and ended in June 1997, while- the Central Java consultant contract was
extended twice- and finished in end September 1997. The consultants played an overall
supervisory and coordination role which was critical to the successful completion of the
physical invest:ment activities financed under the Project.
17.   Engineering, design and construction supervision of several units of Suralaya
Thermal Power Plant:  The consultant contract financed under the Project for
engineering, design and construction supervision of Units 5, 6 and 7 of the Suralaya Coal-
fired Power Plant was completed successfully. The remaining engineering activities as
well as construction were financed under Bank Loan No. 3501-IND for Suralaya Thermal
Power Project. The Suralaya Power Plant is now commissioned and in operation.
18.   Site selection and feasibility study for a new thermal power plant in West
Java: The feasibility study was successfully completed in March 1994. The outcome of
the study was a recommendation for a 4800 (8x600) MW coal fired power plant in
Pangkalan, West Java. Prior to the recent financial crisis, this plant was included in PLN's
expansion program to be constructed in four phases commencing in 2005.
19.   Study for long-term development of the transmission system in Java-Bali:
The study was completed with a final report submitted in February 1995 and revised in
January 1996. Under the study, the existing system operation, engineering and load
forecast were reviewed, network expansion was studied and preliminary project packages
and investment plans were developed. The consultant also conducted training of PLN
staff in transrnission and engineering techniques. Consequently, PLN's capability in
transmission long-term planning was improved.
20.   The study's recommendations are being taken into account particularly in finalizing
the 500 kV backbone (both the northern and the southern lines) in the PLN Java system.
The study recommended not only the construction of 2 circuits for the entire northern
route in Java but also the construction of the 500 kV southern route (Paiton-Kediri-
Klaten-Tasikmralaya-Jakarta) for improving East-West Java power transfers, voltage
stability as well as voltage profiles in the southern reaches of the line. The Paiton-Kediri-
Klaten portion of the southern line is being built under the Bank financed Second Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 3978-IND), while the rest is being built
under Japanese OECF financing.



- 6 -
21.   The Project's focus on institutional development solely through a planning study
can in hindsight be viewed as overly narrow. The importance of broader organizational
issues for transmission performance was recognized during preparation of the recent
Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 3978-IND, approved in
February 1996) which is supporting the establishment of the Java-Bali Electricity
Transmission Unit (JABETU) within PLN to have overall responsibility for PLN's
transmission development and operation in Java. The combining of transmission planning,
construction and operation into a single body is expected to lead to major improvements
in PLN's transmission development coordination and performance.
Review of Financial Objective
22.   One of the objectives of the project was to promote measures for strengthening
PLN's financial position. However, it should be noted that the project did not include any
specific component to achieve this objective. The idea was initiated during the project
preparation and was pursued as part of the Bank's sectoral policy dialogue with GOI and
PLN by the implementation of an automatic, quarterly electricity tariff adjustment
mechanism (ETAM). ETAM was designed by ADB-financed consultants, with the Bank's
support, and came into effect through a Presidential Decree in late 1994. This project
objective has only been partially achieved. Although PLN's financial position showed
improvement over the project period (before it started to sharply deteriorate after loan
closing in late 1997 due to the sharp devaluation of the local currency, Rupiah), its
profitability never reached target levels. ETAM delivered only small tariff increases (only
Spercent up to the end of 1997), and it became evident that reliance on ETAM will not
avoid the need for substantial basic tariff increases. This is partly because of factors never
intended to be covered by ETAM (e.g., over-optimistic demand forecasts) and partly
because of faulty design in ETAM itself (e.g., it provides only partial cost pass-through
and then only with a long lag).
23.   It is now widely understood that ETAM alone will not be able to solve PLN's
financial difficulties. Also, a basic tariff increase but no revision to ETAM will only
postpone the financial crisis for a year or two. Therefore, the Bank, during its sector
dialogue, has been pursuing with the Government a revision to ETAM through a new
Presidential Decree (Keppres). Such revision, being still under consideration, would
embody the following assumptions:
*  clear definition of base prices as prices in PLN budget of a selected reference
year;
*  clear definition of weights as derived from annual PLN budget;
*  weights to add to one to allow full cost pass-through;
*  clear definition of base price of IPP plants not in service at time of basic tariff
increase: base price for such plants should equal to an average IPP price.



- 7 -
Compliance wiith Financial Covenants
24.   The Loan and Project Agreements provide essential legal covenants to facilitate
successful implementation of the project and successful operations of the implementing
agency, PLN. Among the covenants were important financial covenants. Of these, the
most important ones were to achieve annually an eight per cent rate of return on PLN's
Java operations and to achieve break-even on PLN's outside-Java operations beginning
FY1991/92. The latter covenant was successively rolled-over. In 1994, both covenants
were replaced under Loan 3761-IND (Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project) by a
single eight percent rate-of-return (ROR) covenant for PLN's entire operation in
Indonesia. Another important financial covenant under the project was that PLN should
not incur any debt unless it achieves a forecast debt service coverage (DSC) ratio of at
least 1.5 times.
25.   PLN has for some time not been in compliance with the rate of return covenant.
The Government's reluctance to increase tariffs in the run-up to the Presidential election in
March 1998 resulted in PLN's ROR for 1997 falling to 3.Opercent (6.8 percent for PLN's
Java operations), far below the covenanted 8.0 percent. Up to 1997, PLN was at least in
compliance with the DSC ratio. However, in that year, the DSC ratio was estimated at
1.3 times, below the covenanted 1.5 times. PLN's key financial indicators in recent years
are given in Annex E.
26.   With the collapse since November 1997 in the value of the Rupiah, PLN's financial
position has further deteriorated significantly. As part of the rescue package negotiated
with the RMF, the Government has agreed to remove all electricity subsidies over the
coming three years, starting with sizable tariff increase on April 1, 1998. Implementation
of this agreement will be crucial to restoring PLN's financial health, and will be closely
monitored by Bank staff.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
27.   The implementation of the project was satisfactory.  Physical and technical
assistance project components were completed, and the original targets were met.
Implementation was, however, characterized by substantial delays (one and a half years).
To accommodate the implementation delays, the loan closing date was extended in end
1996 by nine months.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.   Procurement of goods and consulting services: The Borrower's procurement
practices and consultant selection procedures substantially delayed procurement of both
goods and consultants. This was one of the key contributing factor in the nine-month loan
extension. There were lengthy delays between bid closing date and bid evaluation, and



- 8 -
between receipt of Bank's no objection letter (NOL) and preparation of final contract
document.
29.   Land acquisition: Another key contributing factor to the project implementation
delays was lengthy and cumbersome process for acquisition of land for transmission
substations and obtaining of right of ways for transmission lines, especially in the
populated and developed areas such as West Java and Jakarta.
30.   It should be noted that the above mentioned factors were identified at the time of
project appraisal and recorded in the SAR as the main risks to cause implementation
slippage. The SAR mentioned "The risk of slippage will be kept to a minimum through
careful planning and attention to procurement to avoid protracted procurement actions
and decision-making, to supervision of contracts ...". However, procurement delays
resulting in implementation slippage still took place under the project as well as under
other Bank financed power projects in Indonesia. It appears then that "careful planning
and attention" are certainly not enough to minimize procurement delays, and the key
factor behind procurement delays is the Government's and PLN's bureaucratic practices.
One of the aims of the process of sectoral commercialization, corporatization and
unbundling embarked on since the commencement of this project is precisely to reduce
bureaucracy and improve implementation.
31.   With regard to land acquisition, this is an issue which has received much more
attention in recent years. With Bank assistance, PLN has now formulated and officially
adopted a policy paper on land acquisition for transmission projects ("PLN's General
Policy Concerning the Establishment of Overhead Transmission Lines", December 1995).
Land acquisition is also now much more closely supervised, allowing potential delays to
be noted and acted on more quickly.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   The achievements and benefits of the project are sustainable.  The physical
facilities will be productive for many years. Although PLN is now facing financial
difficulties, normal operation of the physical facilities (transmission lines and substations)
financed under the project should nct be affected, because these new facilities, equipped
with modern technologies, do not need much maintenance and in certain cases are even
maintenance free.
33.   Results and recommendations from  the technical assistance should also be
sustainable. For example, the Suralaya Thermal Power Project, designed under the
project, has now been built. The study for long-term development of the transmission
system has facilitated improvement of PLN's long-term planning capabilities, and the
study recommendations are being implemented particularly in finalizing the 500 kV
backbone in Java.



- 9 -
34.   Operational Plans to ensure the sustainability of results achieved under the project
were discussed with PLN during the ICR mission. These plans are presented in Annex B.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   Overall, the Bank's performance has been satisfactory. The identification and
preparation of the project were carried out smoothly. The project's design was straight
forward and the objectives were clear. It was basically an investment project with some
simple and straight forward technical assistance activities. However, in hindsight, the
Industrial Consumers Connection Fund (to establish a revolving stock of equipment and
material for large industrial consumers) component was not well prepared. No prior
documents were prepared relating to its justification and design.
36.   Appraisal was also carried out successfully.  The major risks were correctly
identified, namely procurement delays and difficulties in land acquisition. Attempts (such
as action plan and supervision follow-up) were made to mitigate these risks, though these
proved insufficient. The implementation plan for the project components was simple, but
sufficiently clear to quantify the extent of the delays which occurred. Performance
indicators were provided for the physical components of the project.
37.   The  project supervision  arrangements were  adequate.   During  project
implementation, the Bank successfully maintained good working relations with PLN. A
total of seven supervision missions were fielded during the project implementation period.
Most of the field supervision activities were carried out in conjunction with the
supervision of other ongoing power projects. The project was supervised by three task
managers, wit:h no discernible negative impact on project continuity and outcome.
38.   Project implementation involved no deviations from Bank policies and procedures.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   PLN's and GOI's performance was overall satisfactory.   Macroeconomic
conditions and sectoral policies were generally favorable. The project was carried out
successfully and the physical construction targets were met. Counterpart funds were
available and audit requirements were satisfied. Ownership was generally taken of the
technical assistance, close cooperation ensured knowledge-transfer, and ongoing
utilization is now being made of the consultants' work. Against this overall satisfactory
rating, three less positive aspects of the borrower's performance should also be noted.
First, as mentioned previously, the project suffered from delays in implementation due to
lengthy and inefficient procurement procedures and practices, as well as due to
cumbersome process for land acquisition. Second, although compliance with covenants
was satisfactory in general, financial covenants were not complied with (see paras. 24-26).
Third, substantial delays were experienced in submission of progress reports for the
physical investment components and final reports of studies under the technical assistance
component.



- 10-
G. SUMMARY ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project met most of its physical,
and institutional objectives and the benefits from the project are likely to be sustainable.
41.   The EIRR for the project has been re-estimated at 17.7 percent, compared to the
17 percent estimated at the appraisal.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   It is expected that the project will be operated as planned.  The physical
cQmponents have been taken over by PLN's various operational departments and have
become an integrated part of PLN's entire operations. Proper training has been conducted
and comprehensively documented operation and maintenance procedures have been put in
place.
43.   Plans for future operations are presented in Annex B. The Bank will continue to
monitor PLN's operations and performance through its on-going lending and institutional
development programs and policy dialogue with GOI/PLN.
L KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.   Several specific key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for
the design of future power sector projects, can be drawn from this project. These are
discussed in the following.
45.   Establishment of a central Project Management Unit (PMU) could benefit
overall project coordination and accountability: The project did not require PLN, the
implementing agency, to establish a central project management and implementation
supervision unit at the head office level. As a result, no senior PLN manager was
responsible for monitoring progress and the outcome of the project, and for initiating
corrective actions in a timely manner. This also made it difficult for the Bank to supervise
the project while adding to the time and financial resources devoted to the supervision
activity. Establishment of a PMU could have reduced delay. This lesson has been taken
on board by subsequent Bank financed projects, such as Second Rural Electrification
project (Loan 3845-IND), which is already in operation with a PMU, and the Java Power
Distribution Project, which is under preparation but which has a PMIU designed into it.
46.   Cumbersome procurement processes are a leading cause of project
implementation delays: PLN's procurement process results in a lengthy procurement
cycle adding delays and unnecessary costs to projects that it undertakes.  Speedier



- I1 -
procurement processing and more efficient inventory management and materials handling
are key to increasing the efficiency of its investment program.
47.   Action on land acquisition should be taken early on during project
preparation stage: To ensure smooth project implementation, land acquisition should be
completed before the project implementation starts, or a realistic and concrete time-bound
action plan should be developed and followed through with close monitoring from both
the Bank and the implementing agency. Under the project, although agreement seemed to
have been agreed during appraisal and loan negotiations that land acquisition should be
completed by end 1992, it did not actually happen in some cases (resulting in transmission
line rerouting) which caused implementation delays.
48.   Performance targets: While the output targets were satisfactorily achieved, the
project did not have any outcome or impact indicators to measure the performance of
PLN's power transmission system in Java. Explicit performance monitoring has since built
in the Bank's most recent transmission project, the Second Power Transmission and
Distribution Project, which includes broader outcome targets, such as transmission losses
and outages, in addition to the conventional output or construction targets.
49.   Focus on organization rather than just on studies or planning: The project's
focus on institutional development solely through a system planning study can in hindsight
be viewed as overly narrow.  The importance of broader organizational issues for
transmission performance (such as coordination between planning, construction and
operation) was recognized under the recent Second Power Transmission and Distribution
Project which is supporting the establishment of an "investment center" within PLN to
have overall responsibility for PLN's transmission planning, construction and operation in
Java. This arrangement is expected to lead to major improvement in PLN's transmission
development coordination and performance.
50.   More attention should be given on accurate cost estimate: A large portion of
the loan was canceled (US$103.4 million in 1994 and US$8.9 million in 1998 at loan
closing, in total about 40percent of the original loan amount). Given that the physical
construction activities have been basically completed, the substantial cancellations do raise
questions on the accuracy of cost estimates. While international competitive bidding may
have resulted in lower-than-expected contract prices, over conservative cost estimate may
have been the main reason for the cancellations. More attention should therefore be given
in future projects on the accuracy of cost estimate and on application of contingencies.
Furthermore, project descriptions in the legal agreements should be more flexible to allow
utilization of cost savings towards meeting the broad project objectives.



- 12 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives       Substantial        Partial        Netgligble
Macro Policies                     E                 a               E                 0
Sector Policies                    E                E                E                 0
Financial Objiectives                ]               0               E                 E
Institutional Development          E                 n               E                 E
Physical Objectives                 0                n                G                E
Poverty Reduction                   Q               E                El                0
Gender Issues                      E                E                El                0
Other Social Objectives            E                E                E                 0
Environmental Objectives           E                E                E                 0
Public Sector Management           E                E                E                 0
Private Sector Development         E                El                0                E
Other (specify)                    E                E                E                 0
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                     (1')                       (1)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                satisfactorg             Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (V)                        (V)
Identification                    E                         0                         El
Preparation Assistance            E                         0                         E
Appraisal                         El                        0                         El
Supervision                       El                       0                          El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactorv             Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (V)
Preparation                       E                        E                          E
Implementaition - Physical         E                        0                         E
El                      0                          E
Institutional
Covenant Compliance               E                        E                           0
Operation (if applicable)         E                         0                         E
Hip,hlv                                            Hip-hlv
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
E]             0                El                 El



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title             Purpose/Description                 Year of         Status
approval
Loan 2506-IND     Comprising: (a) a cistribution system for Jakarta and  1981  Completed in
Eleventh Power    the regencies of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi               1988
Project           (Jabotabek) in West Java, involving about 450 km of
kV cables, 760 km of 20 kV overhead lines; (b) a 150
kV voltage system, involving 5 new substations in
Jakarta, 46 km of underground double-circuit 150 kV
cables and 980 MBA of transformers; (c) engineering
of the next base-load thermal power unit (at Paiton) in
Java; (d) engineering of the Extra High Voltage
(EHV) Central-East Java transmission line; and (e)
management consultancy for further improvements in
PLN's financial planning and control systems.
Loan 2214-IND     Comprising: (a) construction of 110 (2 x 55) MW   1982     Completed in
Twelfth Power     extension of Kamojang geothermal power station in          1991
Project           West Java; (b) construction of the third 400 MW
thermal generating unit at Suralaya, including
engineering services for the third and fourth
generating units; (c) distribution system improvements
in Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi; (d) a
mini-hydro development program in North Sumatra;
and (e) training facilities and services to assist PLN's
manpower development program.
Loan 2300-IND     Comprising: (a) construction of Cirata hydroelectric  1983  Completed in
Thirteenth Power   power project (4xl25 MW); (b) construction of 500         1990
Project           kV switchyard and 25 km 500 kV transmission line;
(c) consultant services for Cirata project and an energy
sector support program to support engineering and
design for major thermal stations, an information
management system study, and feasibility studies for
hydro, thermal and transmission and distribution
schemes.
Loan 2443-IND     To construct and install the third and fourth 400 MW  1984  Completed in
Fourteenth Power  thermal generating units at Suralaya in West Java; to      1992
Project           extend the distribution network in Jakarta, Bogor,
Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek), East Java and
Central Java; and to provide consulting services for
engineering and construction supervision of
transmission lines and substations in Java and for
engineering and design of hydro projects.



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Cont'd)
Loan/credit title              Purpose/Description                  Year of         Status
approval
Loan 3097-IND     The project included: (a) diesel power units        1989     Completed in
Power Sector      rehabilitation and relocation; (b) small hydropower          1995.
Efficiency Project   renovation; (c) distribution investment; (d) expansion
of PLN's telecommunication facilities; (e) training
program; (f) distribution management program; (g)
technical assistance for general accounting/cash
management and financial/corporate planning; (h)
institutional mechanism to advise GOI on energy price
adjustments; (i) information system to provide costs
for PLN's rural electrification program; and (j)
utilization by PLN of captive generating capacity.
Loan 3098-IND     To provide for the construction of the Paiton coal-fired  1989  Completed in
Paiton Thermal    power plant with an initial capacitv of 800 MW and           1995.
Power Project     an ultimate capacity of 4,000 MW in East Java;
associated 500 kV and 150 kV transmission system;
and technical assistance to strengthen capacity of
Ministry of Mines and Energy in environmental
matters and train PLN personnel in power plant
technology.
Loan 3501-IND     The project includes: (a) the construction of three  1992    Implementation
Suralaya Thermal   coal-fired units of 600/MW each at Suralaya,                underway; closing
Power Project     including associated works and a 500 kV transmission         in 1999.
line from Cilegon to Cibinong, with associated
substations; (b) consulting services for engineering,
design and construction supervision of the proposed
units; (c) feasibility study for a high voltage submarine
cable link between Java and Sumatra; (d) engineering
and design of a thermal power p-ant at Banjarmasin in
South Kalimantan; (e) consulting services for
institutional development; and (f) training of PLN's
staff in public utility practices.



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Cont'd)
Loan/credit title              Purpose/Description                  Year of         Status
approval
Loan 3602-IND     Its components are: (a) implementation of Phase II of  1993    Implementation
Cirata            the Cirata hydroelectric development on the Citarum          underway; closing
Hydroelectric     River in West Java; (b) consulting services for the          in 1999.
Phase II Project  engineering and construction supervision; (c) studies
to upgrade hydrological and environmental data bases,
and improve data collection practices; (d) studies to
update PLN's hydroelectric inventories, and determine
pre-feasibility of selected schemes; (e) studies to
identify options to enhance environmental conditions
in the existing PLN reservoirs on the Citarum River,
and training of PLN staff in environmental
management; (f) training of PLN's staff in dam safety
and instrumentation monitoring; (g) power sector
institutional and regulatory framework studies for the
Government of Indonesia (GOI); (h) studies aimed at
assisting GOI to determine a long-term strategy for
financing power sector investments; and (i) pre-
construction stage engineering services.
Loan 3978-IND     To improve customer service by (a) increasing the   1996    Implementation
Second Power      physical capacity, efficiency, and reliability of the        underway; closing
Transmission and   Java-Bali transmission svstem and distribution              in 2000.
Distribution      network; and (b) promoting sector efficiency,
Project           competition, and private sector participation by
implementing functional decentralization of State
Electricity Corporation (PLN) operations in Java-Bali
and developing effective regulatory oversight and
institutions. The project has two principal
components: (a) the restructuring of and investment in
PLN's operations; and (b) the development of
regulatory oversight.



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          01/30/87           01/30/87
Preparation                                         02/09/89           10/02/89
Appraisal                                           09/05/90           06/11/90
Negotiations                                        01/28/91           03/11/91
Board Presentation                                  03/26/91           06/19/91
Signing                                                                08/08/91
Effectiveness                                                          11/04/91
Midterm review (if applicable)                                         04/21/94
Project Completion                                  03/31/96           09/30/97
Loan Closing                                        12/31/96           09/30/97
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   Total
Appraisal Estimate        5.0   50.0  165.0  220.0  264.0  275.0          -   275.0
Actual                    2.4   16.5   71.4  136.4  151.0  160.9  162.7  162.7 "
Actual as % of Estimate  48.0   33.0   43.3   62.0   57.2   58.5          -    59.2
Date of Final is       February 23, 1998
Disbursement           (An undisbursed balance of US$ 8.9 million was canceled.)
" US$ 103.4 million was canceled upon borrower's request effective November 7, 1994.



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Number           MVA              MVAR              Route (km)
Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target   Actual   Target    Actual
Substation
New                      20       19     1,190   1,270
Extension                41       52     1,870    1,740     -        -         -         -
Total substation         61       71     3,060   3,010
Reactive Power             33      40        -       -      350      350        -          -
Compensation Equipment
(Capacitors)
Transmission Lines         19      16       -        -        -       -       297.5      182.0
Note: a! Target figures were from SAR;
b/ Actual figures were from PLN Proyek Induk and PCRs prepared by PLN's consultants.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Non indicators for project operations were included in SAR/President's Report.



- 19 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                        Impact of
Study         Appraisal/Redefined       Status               Study
Site Selection  To select a suitable site for   Completed  The feasibility study was
and Feasibility    a large steam power station         successfully completed in
Study for a     in West Java of about 4000            March 1994. The selected
Thermal Plan in   MW ultimate capacity at              4800 (8x600) MW coal fired
West Java       the selected site, and to              power plant in Pangkalan was
compare its economic and             included in PLN's expansion
technical merits against              program and to be constructed
other alternate sites in             in four phases commencing in
West Java.                            2005.
Study of the    To prepare a transmission    Completed  The study was completed with
Long-Term        system master plan for                a final report submitted in
Development of  Java-Bali integrated system           February 1995 and revised in
the Transmission  to meet forecast electric           January 1996. Under the
System in Java-  load growth up to year               study, the existing system
Bali             2003/04; to prepare a                operation, engineering and
detailed investment                  load forecast were reviewed,
program for the initial five         network expansion was studied
years of the study period;           and preliminary project
and to train PLN personnel           packages and investment plans
in transmission planning             were developed. The
and engineering technique.           consultant also conducted
training of PLN staff in
transmission and engineering
techniques. Consequently,
PLN's capability in
transmission long-term
planning was improved.



- 20 -
Table 8AM Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)        ActualVLatest Estimate(USSM)
Item                       Local      Foreign       Total     Local   Foreign       Total
Costs       Costs                  Costs     Costs
Transmission Component
Substations                               33.9       150.5       184.4       38.3      81.4      119.7
Transmission lines                        17.9        53.8       71.7        36.6      60.4       97.0
Industrial Consu. Conn. Fund (ICCF)        2.0        15.0        17.0  Cost included in "substation"
item.
Subtotal Transmission                    53.8        219.3      273.1        74.9     141.8     216.7
Technical Assistance Component
Project eng., design & construction        2.2         8.0        10.2        3.2       5.4        8.6
spn.
Eng.&designforSuralayaUnits                1.1        10.0        11.1        1.2       8.3        9.5
516/7
Plant Site selection & feasibility study   0.6         4.0        4.6         1.7       2.3       4.0
Java-Bali long-term trans. dev. study     0.2          1.6         1.8       0.3        0.9        1.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance             4.1         23.6       27.7        6.4       16.9      23.2
Owner admin., eng. and supervision          10.0            -       10.0        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Total Base Cost                             67.9        242.9      310.8       81.3      158.7     240.0
Physical contingencies                     5.8         16.0      21.8           -         -          -
Price contingencies                        7.2        16.1       23.3           -         -         -
Total Project Cost                          80.9        275.0      355.9       81.3      158.7     240.0
Interest during construction              18.2        41.6       59.8        12.7      29.6      42.3
Total Financing Required                    99.1        316.6      415.7       94.0      188.3     282.3



- 21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)       Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Source                     Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD                          -       275.0      275.0          -      162.7    162.7
PLN                        99.1        41.6      140.7      83.7       35.9    119.6
TOTAL                       99.1       316.6     415.7       83.7      198.6    282.3
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                  Re-estimate
Economic Internal Rate of Retum      17 Percent on PLN's investment  17.7 percent on PLN's
(EIRR)                              program in Java from              investment program from
1990/91 - 1994/95.               1990/91 - 1996/97.
For detailed calculations, see Annex D.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment                 Description of covenant                 Comments
type      status      date         date
Loan         3.01(b)      3          C                               Subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and   Condition of
PLN.                                        effectiveness
4.01(a)      9          C                               Review annually PLN's investment plan.
4.01(b)      11         C                               Review annually PLN's development plan and
associated financial forecast and financing
plan.
6.01         3          C                               Subsidiary loan agreement executed
Prolect      2.06          5         C                               PLN to carry out action plans for efficiency
improvements for all its operations.
2.07         10        CD                           -   PLN to acquire land for substations and right  With delays.
of way for transmission lines.
2.08         10         CP                              PLN to maintain adequate revolving stock of  Initial loan allocation
materials for supplying industrial consumers.  for setup of revolving
stock was only partially
used. However, stock
materials and
equipment for large
consumer connection
are being funded by
PLN's intemal
resources.
2.09         10         C                               PLN to fumish proposals for supplying
industrial consumers for review and approval.
4.01          1         C                               PLN to submit audited accounts, and other
fmancial information, including segregated
RE accounts.
4.02         2          C                               PLN to review periodically with Bank its
LRMC and tariff structure.
4.03          1         C                               PLN to revalue fixed assets and accumulated
depreciation.
4.04         5          CP                              PLN to maintain projected debt-service
coverage of at least 1.5.
4.05         5          C                               PLN to (a) prepare ten-year financial forecast
and review with Bank; (b) test each proposed
development plan for feasibility, (c) develop
financing plan for first 5 years; (d) ensure
recommended development plan reviewed and
approved by its Board (and GOI/Bank).
4.06(a)      2                                          PLN to achieve an annual ROR of at least 8%   Not applicable.
(i)                                                     for Java-Bali from FY91/92.                 Covenant modified
under Ln 376 1-IND to
require ROR not less
than 8% for PLN as a
whole, commencing
from FY94/95.
4.06(a)      2                                          PLN to achieve break-even for outside-Java    Not applicable, as
(ii)                                                    from FY93/493.                              described above.
4.06(b)      2          C                               PLN to annually review adequacy of tariffs to
meet 4.06(a) targets and fumish to Bank
results of such review.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                           8.  = Indigenous people
2.  =  Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9.  = Monitoring, review. and reporting
3.  =  Flow and utilization of project funds                    10-  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoTal budgetary or other resource altocation
5.  =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6.  =  Environmental covenants                                 13.  = Other
7.              Involuntary resettlemnent
Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with
CD =  complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



- 23 -
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Revised           Actual
Stage of___________________________
Project Cycle          Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal          n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    38.58   71,447
Appraisal                         n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    41.55   86,863
Negotiation through Board approval  n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.     17.53   44,232
Supervision                       n.a.      n.a.     24.0   58,922    27.23   55,040
Completion                        11.0    27,669    11.0   27,592    10.50   16,290
TOTAL                            n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    131.89  273,872



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/    Number    Days in    Specialhzed          Implemen-       Develop-              Types of
Project Cycle        Year        of        Field      Staff Skldls      tation         ment                Problems
Persons                Represented        Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal    02/89         3           7       Power Eng.       Preparation       n/a
Fit. Analyst
10/89         4          7       Power Eng.       Preparation       n/a
Fin. Analyst
02/90         5           7      Power Eng.       Pre-appraisal      n/a
Energy Econ.
Fin. Analyst
06/90         5           6      Power Eng.        Appraisal        n/a       A tariff increase needed to
Energy Econ.                                reach 8% ROR in 91/92; on-
Fin. Analyst                                lending terms to be
determined.
Appraisal though     11/90         3          10      Power Eng.          Post-           n/a       A tariff increase needed to
Board Approval                                        Fin. Analyst       appraisal                  reach 8% ROR in 91/92.
Board Approval        -                                -            -                                -
through
Effectiveness
Supervision          10/91         4           5      Power Eng.            1              1
Fin. Analyst
10/92         2          5       Power En&             1             I        Some cost savings expected
Fin. Analyst                                 due to lower-than estimnated
contract prices.
04/94         2           6      Power Eng.            2              1       Implementation delays; cost
Fin. Analyst                                savings of about $100 m.
11194         3           5      Power Eng.            S             S        Implementation delays mainly
Op. Officer                                  due to land acquisition
problems.
03/96         2           4      Power Eng.            S             S        Implementation delays; late
Op. Officer                                  submission of reports.
11/96         1          5       Op. Officer          S              S        Implementation delays; non-
compliance with financial
covenants.
07/97         2           5      Power Eng.            S             S        Implementation delays in
Op. Officer                                 some components; non
compliance with financial
covenants.
Completion           11/97         2           5      Power Eng.            S              S
Op. Officer
Note: Preparation, appraisal and supervision of the project were conducted in combination with that of
other power projects, therefore, the days spent in the fields were estimates.



- 25 -                            ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    This Aide Memoire records the findings of a World Bank Mission comprising
Messrs. Yuling Zhou and Kurt Schenk, who visited Indonesia from November 3 to 7,
1997, for preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power
Transmission Project (Loan 3349-IND). The mission records its thanks to PLN staff and
the consultants for the assistance provided in the ICR preparation and acknowledges the
courtesies and cooperation extended to it during its visit.
Activities Undertaken by Mission
2.    The mission: (i) collected the data necessary to prepare the statistical tables in the
ICR; and (ii) reviewed other background data to develop its analysis. Discussions were
held with PLN staff and the consulting engineers to better understand and interpret the
available data. The project was assessed with regard to the degree of achievement of the
objectives, prospects of its sustainability, Bank and Borrower performance, and the
lessons learned. In addition, the mission provided advice and support to the Borrower for
preparing its own evaluation report which is to be attached to the ICR.
Overall Project Objective
3.    The overall objective of the project was to expand, strengthen and upgrade the
transmission facilities for the Java-Bali system to supply electricity to new consumers and
to meet increases in electricity demand arising from existing and new consumers. With the
successful comipletion of the physical investment components of the project (as discussed
below), this overall objective has been generally achieved.
Review of Transmission Component
4.    This coimponent included investments in extension and construction of substations,
installation of reactive power compensation equipment and construction of transmission
lines. As shown in the table below, the appraisal targets have either achieved or
surpassed:



- 26 -                             ANNEX 1
Number        . MVA            MVAR          Route (km)
Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual Target  Actual
Substations
New                20      20   1,190   1,190
Extension          41      41   1,870   2,210
Total substation   61      61   3,060   3,400       -       -
Reactive Power       33      36       -       -    350    350
Compensation
Equipment
(Capacitors)
Transmission Lines   19      23       -       -       -      -  297.5   287.2
5.    However, a substantial delay (about one and a half years) was experienced during
implementation. The delay was mainly caused by procurement delays and difficulties that
PLN encountered in land acquisition and obtaining right of ways in particular in West Java
and Jakarta area, as well as insufficient commissioning personnel on site.
6.    The project was also to support establishment of a special fand -- the Industrial
Consumers Connection Fund (ICCF)--of about US$20 million to finance the construction
of new transmission facilities for supplying industrial consumers at 150 kV. The Bank
loan allocated US$15 million for this purpose. However, only US$6.6 million was utilized
mainly in West Java area and the balance was canceled. Although PLN also carried out a
Large Consumer Connection Program (PKB) using its own financing, the original idea of
setting up a revolving stock of standard equipment and materials (so that the connection
time for large industrial consumers can be substantially reduced) was in fact not
implemented. The reason seems to have been inadequate attention given by both PLN and
the Bank to this component in the early years of the project.
7.    The project did not tackle the institutional aspects of transmission development.
PLN's overall transmission performance is mixed with impressive growth but also delays
and bottlenecks.  The importance of these broader questions were recognized in
preparation of the recent Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(Ln.3978-IND) which is supporting the establishment of the Java-Bali Electricity
Transmission Unit (JABETU) within PLN to have overall responsibility for PLN's
transmission development and operation in Java. The combining of planning, construction
and operation into a single body is expected to lead to major improvements in PLN's
transmission development coordination and performance.



- 27 -                            ANNEX 1
Review of TA Activities
8.    There were four technical assistance activities financed under the projects, namely:
(a) Engineering, design and construction supervision of substations and
transmission lines financed under the project: three consulting contracts were
signed in this connection respectively for the three subcomponents of West
Java/Jakarta, Central Java and East Java. All the contracts started in late 1992
or early 1993 but completed in different times.  For the East Java
subcomponent, the consultants completed their work in end 1994 according to
the original schedule, and the remaining construction supervisory work (only
for installation of transformers) was completed by PLN staff. The West Java
consultant contract was extended once and ended in June 1997, while the
Central Java consultant contract was amended twice and finished in end
September 1997. The consultants have played an overall supervisory and
coordination role which was critical to the successful completion of the
physical investment activities.
(b) Engineering, design and construction supervision of several units of Suralaya
thermal power plant: the contract financed under the project was successfully
completed and remaining engineering activities as well as construction
supervision were financed from the Bank loan for Suralaya Thermal Power
Project.
(c) Site selection and feasibility study for a new thermal power plant in West Java:
the feasibility study was completed in March 1994 with a selected site for a
8x6OO MW coal fired plant in Pangkalan, West Java. According to PLN's
1997 Investment Plan (RUPTL), the first unit (600 MW) will be developed in
2005.
(d) Study for long-term development of the transmission system in Java-Bali: the
study was completed with a final report submitted in February 1995 and
revised in January 1996. The study recommendations are being implemented
particularly in finalizing the 500 kV backbone in Java.
Project Sustainability and Operational Plan
9.    The project achievements and benefits are sustainable. The physical investments
will be productive for many years. The completed 150 kV transmission lines and
150/20 kV substations will provide safe, reliable and much needed power to the rapidly
growing load centers in Java anc' will also assist in relieving transformer overloads as well
as in improving system security.
10.   The completed facilities have been integrated into PLN's entire operations in Java,
and are being operated and maintained under PLN's standard procedures with



- 28 -                           ANNEX I
performance indicators for quality, reliability and efficiency.  Maintenance on the
transmission network (included substations) in Java is managed by PLN P3B
(Transmission and Load Dispatching Center). Patrols of lines take place on a regular basis
and any deficiencies are noted and corrected. In addition, a fault detection system by
means of impedance relaying is in place to provide rapid response to faults as they occur.
Disbursement
11.   Against the original loan amount of US$275.0 million, US$161.96 million was
been disbursed as of end October 1997 and US$103.4 million canceled (in November
1994, due to much lower-than-expected bid prices for equipment and materials). The
undisbursed balance is US$9.6 million. According to the Bank's standard practice, a four-
month grace period (up to end January 1998) was granted to continue disbursing the loan
(but only for eligible expenditures incurred, i.e. goods, works and services provided before
the loan closing date). The remaining undisbursed balance after this period will be
canceled.
Next Steps
12.   The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) has been recalculated by PLN and
received by hte mission. The mission will review it and convey any comments to PLN as
soon as possible.
13.   The following schedule was agreed with PLN for the final preparation of the ICR:
January 31, 1998     The Bank to send its draft final ICR to PLN for
comments.
January 31, 1998     PLN to send its own evaluation report to the Bank (the
report will be attached unedited to the final ICR; if the
report is longer than ten pages, a summary should be
provided).
February 15, 1998    PLN to forward its comments, if any, on the draft ICR
to the Bank.
March 1998           The ICR will be finalized and printed by the Bank.
Copies will be forwarded to relevant GOI agencies and
PLN.



- 29 -                           ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL PLAN
Transmission Network
Maintenance on the Transmission network (included Substation and mobile Substation) in
Java is managed by PLN P3B (Transmission and Load Dispatching Center). Patrols of
lines take place on a regular basis and any deficiencies are noted and corrected. In
addition, a faults service is in place to provide rapid response to faults as they occur. The
maintenance and fault are conducted in accordance with the procedures for quality,
reliability and efficiency indicators of electric supply.
The mobile substation were used for emergency condition as well as for temporary
replacement of substation to be shut-down (due to construction or maintenance) and
connection for new big consumers where the customer substation is not finished yet.
Reactive Power Compensation
Maintenance on reactive Power Compensation in Java is managed by PLN P3B under
request of the four distribution units. Operational of these capacitors were augment about
10% voltage for network at south of Java area. This incremental is not adequate to
achieve standard operation due to delay of 500 kV transmission line construction Ungaran
- Klaten which was planning be finished at the same time with this project (especially at
South Central Java area).
Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance program has been carried out for two studies.
The firs one is study about Site Selection and Feasibility Study for Thermal Power Plant in
West Java. The study was completed in March 1994 and was concluded that Pangkalan
site is an optimum site and suitable for installation of steam coal power plant with ultimate
capacity for 8 x 600 MW. Pangkalan site is located in West Java Province, about 220 km
from South East Jakarta or 40 km from Cijulang (Pangandaran). According to RUPTL
1997 which already submitted to GOI, Pangkalan Steam Coal Power Plant will be
developed in 2005 for first unit (600 MW).
The second is Study of the Long Term Development of the Transmission System in Java -
Bali. The study started on July 28, 1992 and was conducted using the total of 65 man-
months. The recommendations of the study are currently implemented on:
1. 500 kV, the double circuit Transmission Line from Paiton - Kediri - Klaten which
financed by IBRD 2nd Power T & D and partially by Export Credit. Following by



- 30 -                            ANNEX 2
double circuit 500 kV from Klaten - Rawalo - Tasikmalaya - Depok financed by OECF
and partially by Export Credit.
2. 150 kV, the suggested partly open operation on the 150 kV grid to avoid the increasing
of short-circuit current has been adopted.
During the project implementation period, for all the construction activities, PLN was
assisted by Consultants, i.e.: Ewbank Preece for West Java Project supervision, Fichtner
for Central Java Project supervision and Newjec Inc. for East Java Project supervision.



-31-                              ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: BORROWER'S OWN EVALUATION REPORT
AN ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT, DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION
EXPERIENCE
The main objective of the project is to support PLN and GOI in developing its power
sector by providing reliable and efficient supply of electric power in the Java-Bali
electricity system through the following endeavors:
1. Ensuring adequate investments in power transmission facilities to expand, strengthen
and upgrade electricity transmission system in supplying electricity to new consumers,
and meeting the increasing demand for electricity from the existing ones. With regards
to the above investments, PLN has built 170 km 150 kV transmission lines, 12 km
150 kV underground cables; 15 New Substations, 2 New Gas Insulated Substations
and two rnobile substations of 150/20 kV with total capacity of 1,190 MVA
transformers, 52 extension Substations with total capacity of 1,870 MVA transformers
and 350 MVAR capacitors for 40 Substations. The project also supported the
Industrial Consumers Connection Fund (ICCF) with a special fund of about US$6.6
million which utilized mainly in West Java area.
2. To undertake the supervision and coordination of above projects, three consultants
were assigned in this connection for three subcomponents, i.e. Ewbank Preece,
Fichtner and Newjec respectively for West Java/ Jakarta, Central Java and East Java.
For the East Java subcomponent, the consultant completed their work in the end of
1994 which was in accordance with the original schedule, and the remaining
construction supervisory work (only for installation of transformer) was completed by
PLN staff. The Central Java consultant contract was amended twice and finished in
the end of September 1997. The West Java consultant contract was extended once
and ended in June 1997. The consultants have played an overall supervisory and
coordination role which was critical to the successful completion of the physical
investment activities.
3. Engineering, design and construction supervision of 3 x 600 MW of the Suralaya
Thermal Power Project (Unit 5, 6 and 7) financed by Bank loan IBRD 3349-IND has
been successfully completed and remaining engineering activities as well as
construction supervision were financed from the Bank loan IBRD 3501-IND for
Suralaya Thermal Power Project.
4. Site selection and feasibility study for a new thermal power plant in West Java was
completed in March 1994 with selected site for a 8 x 600 MW coal fired plant in
Pangkalan, West Java.
5. Study for the long-term development of the transmission system in Java-Bali was
completed with a final report submitted in February 1995 and revised in January 1996.



- 32 -                            ANNEX 3
The study recommendations are being implemented particularly in finalizing the
500 kV backbone in Java.
AN ASSESSMENT ON COST AND BENEFITS, AND THE EXTENT TO WHICH
THE PURPOSE/ OBJECTIVES OF THE LOAN HAVE BEEN ACHIEVED
1. Substations with overload transformers were released by installing new transformers
in new substations and additional transformers at the existing ones for spreading the
load and anticipate the future growth load.
2. The bottle-neck transmission lines be released by constructing new transmission lines
and substations.
3. To release the voltage drop (especially at South Java area), the voltage augment was
araise by installing 350 MVAR capacitors in 40 Substations. The standard voltage may
be reached after the 500 kV Transmission Line through South Java installed.
4. The Consumers incremental in Java-Bali region area 1,250,248 customers in 1994,
1,769,023 customers in 1995 and 1,692,167 customers in 1996.
5. The peak load incremental in Java-Bali region are 1,308.51 MW in 1994, 1,039 MW
in 1995 and 1,904 MW in 1996.
Evaluation of the Borrower's own Performance
1. During the project implementation, PLN has made its endeavor to improve the
process.  However, delays occurred during the recruitment of Consultants and
procurement processes.
2. The other delays during the project implementation was caused by PLN encountered
in land acquisition and obtaining right of ways in West Java and Jakarta area.
The ffectiveness of the relationship among the Borrower, the Bank, and any
corinanciers
The relationship between the Bank and PLN was good. Most of the problems
encountered were clearly identified by both parties and relevant actions to solve the
problem were promptly agreed and taken. In particular, good mutual understanding was
achieved by selecting least cost materials.



-33-                             A,NNEX3
Key lesson learned
1. To maintain the agreed project schedule and to minimize implementation delays, it is
very important for PLN to improve it's internal procurement procedures and lobbying to
the GOI.
2. For encountered land acquisition and obtaining Right of Way it's necessary to
improve the relaLtionship between PLN and the affected people.
3.  The project was a very complex one with many independent components. A central
project management within Supervision Division of PLN could have facilitated the overall
project coordination and implementation.



-34-                                                          ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(IERR) a!
COSTS
(US$ Million)
Investment                                      O&M Cost           Fuel Cost cl  Consumer Contflbuton  Tota
Year     Genealon   T&D       Total  Revaluation Constant  Shtadow   Current Constant  Inr    Incremental   Current   Constant   Cost
Index    Price    Prie bl
1983/84         10.6     0.0     10.6      1.947     20.6      19.1       0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0    19.1
1984/85         12.2     0.0     12.2      1.875     22.9      21.2       0.0      0.0    0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0    21.2
1985186         78.8     0.0     78.8     1.803    142.1      131.5       0.0      0.0     00          0.0        0.0        0.0   131.5
1986/87        102.2     0.0    1022       1.629    166.4    154.1        0.0      0.0     00          0.0        0.0        0.0   154.1
1987188        387.2     0.0    387.2      1.494    578.6    535.8        00       0.0    0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0   535.8
1988/89        227.0     0.0    227.0      1.410    320.1     296.4       0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0   296.4
1989/90        115.8   306.7    422.5      1.374    580.4    537.5      283.6   389.5      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   537.5
1990S81        147.2   2498    397,0       1.298    515.3    477.2      335.5   435.5    46.0        174.1       (52.0)    (67.5)   629.7
199`192        530.7   269.7    800.4      1.242    993.9     920.3     374.4   464.9   75.3         263.3       (16.6)    (20.6) 1,238.3
1992i93      1,063.3   746.7  1,810.0      1.188   2,149.4   1,990.3    426.0   505.9   116.3        343.6       (62.2)    (73.9) Z376.4
1993S4         828.5   538.8  1,367.3      1.152   1.574.8   1.458.3    516.5   594.9   205.4        578.8      (147.2)   (169.5) 2.072.9
1994         478.5   991.8   1,470.2     1.111   1,632.9   1,512.0     502.3   557.8   168.3        274.7     (191.4)    (212.6)  1,7424
1995         806.5  1,050.5  1,857,0     1.023   1,899.7   1,759.1    889.3   909.8   520.2         555.0     (267.9)    (274.1) Z599.2
1996         704.9    15.1    720.0      1.000    720.0    666.7   1,293.0  1.293.0   9034          646.3                   0.0   218.4
1997              -       -        -    1.000                        1,293.0  1,293.0   903,4       559.2                        1,462.6
1998                                     1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
1999              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2000              -       -         -    1.00                        1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1.462.6
2001              -                 -    1.000                       1.293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2002              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   9034        559.2                        1,462.6
2003              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2004              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2005              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2006              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0  903.4        559.2                        1,462.6
2007                  -             -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1.462.6
2008                  -             -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1.462.6
2009              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0  903.4        559.2                        1,462.6
2010                  -             -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2011              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1.462.6
2012              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1.293.0  903.4        559.2                        1.462.6
2013              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0  903.4        559.2                        1,462.6
2014              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1.293.0  903.4        559.2                        1,462.6
2015              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0  903.4        559.2                        1.462.6
2016              -       -              1.000                       1.293.0  1.293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2017              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1,293.0   9034        559.2                        1.4626
2018              -       -         -    1.000                       1,293.0  1.293.0  903.4        559.2                        1,462.6
2019              -       -         -    1.000                       1.293.0  1,293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
2020              -       -         -    1.000                       1.293.0  1.293.0   903.4       559.2                        1,462.6
av     To maimLze compfarbiity, the methododogy used here fllows that in SAR. 1997 prces are used 5hroughout
bl     Shadow pie fwactwforinvestrent =       0.926
cl     Data from PLN Statistics. RKAP 1997.



- 35 -                                                                  ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(EIRR) a/
BENEFITS
(US$ Million)
Averge                                   Total    Not
Year                      . (t                                IneantSab  _    (GIAl                      Tariff   Revenbu   Res4denti   ln4 4  seneOt   Befe
ReekleeaI Comm.   lndu4toi   P.blie    Tot        Rekie.  Cm.en,6aI hdirii Pub3c    TeStl   (UScMh) 4USS  )   (US$ m)   (US$ n)  US$S)  (US n)
1983194                                                                                                                                              0.0     (19.1
1I 4195                                                                                                                                              0.0     (21.2)
1985Is1                                                                                                                                              0.0    (131.5
1988187                                                                                                                                              0.0    (154.1
1987188                                                                                                                                              0.0    (535.8
198889                                                                                                                 0.0          0.0      0.0    0.0    (298.4
198990   5.8891    1,5889   9,4764  1,558.    18,487.0                                                                 0.0          0.0      0.0    0.0    (537.5
199011    ,694.7   1,83.3  1198s4.8 18684.5   22,043.2      779.5     270A   2,418.4  107.9   3,578.2   5.7         203.3         56.5     84.8  324.8    (305.1
1991182   7,594.0   2,238.3  13,562.5 1,583.6   25,078.3   1,728.     809A   40806.1   127.0   8,811.3    6.3        419.3        125.3    109.5  054.2    (504.1
1982183   9,571.7   2,470.1  15,088.8 1J70.8   27,837.5    2,708.5     901.7  5,812.2  150.0   9,370.5    8.8        814.2        108.2    150.4  900.8  (1,415.6
19934   9,679.4   2,990.5  18,8.3 1,57.9   31,213.1       3813.3   1,391.6  7,39.9  201.3  2.748.1    7.0          895.9        27t.5    196.7 1,389.1    (703.9
I9U4   10.768.7   3,278.7  l8,748.9 1,841.1   34,637.4    4,03.8    1,709.8  9,272.5  284.5  18170.4    89       1123.0        355.5    248.5 1,727.0      (15.3
199    12,805.6   3,944.9  21,517.8 2,084.9   40133.2     9,740.8   2,378.1  12,041.3  509.3  21,888.1    7.0     1,514.5       489.7    322.7 2,325.9    (234.4
1998   14449.0   4,924.9  24,315.5 229.1   45,887.9       0,582.9   3259.0 14839.1   742.5  27,420.8    7.0        1,906.8      522.3    397.7 2a2B.8      710.2
1997   17,3108   5,402.7  29,549.7 2,899.8   55,130.0    11.445.7   3,833.9 20,073.2 1,310.2   3,6622.9    94     2,332.2       829.8    538.0 3,700.0   2,237.3
19s    17,3108   5.402.7  29,549.7 2,89.8   55,130.0    11,445.7   3.833.9 20.073.2 1,310.2  36.992,9    8.4       2.34t.4      029.8    539.0 3.714.2   2,251.6
I99    17,310.8   5,402.7  20,949.7  2,989.8   55,139.0    11,445.7   3,s339  20,073.2 1,310.2   3,6.92,9    8.4  2,34S.4       829.8    538.0 3.714.2   2,251.6
2000   17,310,8   5,402.7  20,549.7 28W8.8   55,130.0    11445.7   3,a33A 20.073.2  1,310.2  38,882.9    84        2.346.4      829.8    538.0 3.714.2   ,251,8
2001   7.310.    5.402.7  20,549.7 2,8S6.8   55,130.0    1,1445.7   3.833S9 20,073.2 1S310.2  3e,662.9   8.4     2,346.4       929.8    538.0 3.714.2   2,251.8
2002   17,310.8   5, 02.7  20,94.7 2,866.8   55.130,0    11,445.7   3,833s 20,073.2  1,310.2  3e.,62.9    8.4      2.348.4      829.8    038.0 3,714.2   2,251.6
2003   17.310.S   5,402.7  28,594.7 2,888.    55,030.0    11,445.7   3,833.9 20.073.2 1310.2  38,S62.9    8.4     2,346.4       829.8    538.0 3,714.2   2,251.8
2004   17,310.8   5,402.7  29,4Y.  2,899.8   55,130.0    11,445.7   3,833,9 20,073.2 1,310.2   3e,e8239    8.4    2,346.        829.8    538.0 3,714.2   2251.6
200s   17,310,8   5,402.7  20,949.7  2,869.8   55.130,0    11,445.7   3,833,9 20,073,2 1,310,2   39,962.9   8.4   2,348.4       8298    538.0 3,714.2   2,251,6
2008   17,310.8   5,402.7  20,549.7  2,BS698   55,130.0    1.1445.7   3,833A 20,073.2 1,310.2   3.,682,9    8.4    2.348.4      829,8    539.0  3,714,2    2,251.8
2007   17,310.8   5.402.7  20.549,7  2B.S698   55,130.0    11,445.7   3.8332 20,073,2  1,310.2  39,6g2.0    8.4    2,346.4      829.8    538.0 3,714,2    2,201.6
200    17,310.8   5,402.7  28.54,73 23 .8   55,130.0    11,445.    3,8339 20.073.2 1.310.2  30.882,8    5A        2.3484        829.8    53290 3.714,2    2251.6
2009   17,310.8   5,402.7  20,549.7  2,888.8   55,130.0    11.445,7    3,8339 20,0732 1,310.2   3e,992.9    0.4    2,348.4      929.8    53280 3.714.2   2,251.8
2010   17,310.8   5.402.7  20,949.7  2,86998   55.130,0    11.445.7   3,e33.9 20,073.2 1,310.2   39,6e2,9    8.4  2,348.4       829.8    538.0 3,714.2   22561.
2011   17,310.8   5,402.7  20,949.7 2,888.8   55,13090    11.445.7   3,S33,9 20,073.2 1,310.2  30,682.9    8.4    2,34.4        829.8    523.0 3,714.2   2,251,8
2012   17.310.8   5,402.7  20,598.7  2,996.8   55,130.0    11,445.7   3.833.9 20.073.2 1,310.2  38,82.9    8.4   2,348.4       a29.8    538.0 3,714.2   2,251.8
2013   17,310.8   5,402.7  29,4987 2,868.8   55,130.0    11.44S.7   3,83329 20,073.2 1,310.2  3e,e62.9   9.4      2,348.4       829.8    538.0 3.714,2   2,251.8
2014   17.310.8   5,402.7  20,549.7  2,888.8   55,130.0    11.445.7   3,833,9 20,073.2 1,310.2  38,992.9    6.4   2.346.4       829.8    538.0 3.714.2   2,251.6
2015   17,310.8   5,402.7  29,849.7  2,866.9   55,130.0    11,445.7   3,833,  20,073.2 1,310.2  32,992.9    8.4    2,348.4      820.8    538.0 3.714.2   2,251.8
2019   17,310.8   5.402.7  20,.49,7 2,988.8   55,130.0    11,45.7    3,833S9 20.073.2 1,310.2   3.,892,9    8.4   2,348.4       820.8    538.0 3,714.2   2,251,8
2017   17,310.8   5,402.7  20a.48.7  2.866.8   55,130.0    11.445.7   3,833S9 20.073.2 1,310.2  38,e2.   8.4    2.346.4       829.8    538.0 3,714.2    2251.8
2018   17.310.8   5,402.7  29,549.7 2,.98.8   55,130,0    11.445.7   3.833,9 20,073.2 1.310,2  3206.,86   e.4     2,348.4       8329.8    538.0 3.714.2   2,251.8
2019   17,310.8   5,402,7  20,549.7 2,899.8   55,130.0   1,445.7   3,33,9 20.073.2 1.310.2  30,e82.9    6.4      2.348.4      829.8    538.0 3,714.2   2,251.6
2020   17.31098   54027L 2049.7 29886.    55.130.0    1144g.7   38.33.  20073.2 1.310.2  32,t62.9    64           2346.4        8298      538.0 3714.2   2251.8
d/  Ad8Oosnal e .ornic beft:                                                                                                                 IEIR  *   17.7%
Reidentbal Sc 7.2SmW
1nktarl t  Sc 2.63hWH



- 36 -                                                                    ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: PLN-INCOME STATEMENT
(RP. BILLION)
91192                 9V93                   93194                   1994                  1995              1996      1997
SAR Est. Actual   SAR Est  Actual   SAR Est Actual   SAR Est Actual   SAR-Est Actual   Actual                                 Est
SDs~~~~~~~~~~L                            M          Q        4in           UK       Lm            62    5.252    7 r2             Lto   gmst7
EMImI mw.w.                       3.921    4.003         4.790    4.794        s.sms    522            8.442    5.133        7.704    6.110      9.418    11,250
C9r.Wpum.e 54 uw                    107      118           121      122          135      140           15O       119          1ea      18e       228       22a
- C,camercutbudwa                           70                     78                     96                     84                    143       170       171
n}hw                                        48                     45                     44                      5                     53        se        57
-pemroi axpiz 21                                             am                    sM   uz                Ln    LM2                 17 2   Ll    LSM
Fud B hjb4ftg                      1.6,72    1,829        1.50    2.132        2,049    2793           2,224    2.048        2.80    2.970    32355        4.147
P  p.Nhat                             15       23          1t1        20           42       47             1s       sB            15      77       193       253
opwaPme                              847      847           714      92o           21    1.056          1.028    1.028         1.187    1.5s7     1.7S7    2Z129
p825mB meow                       387      308           413      427          484      504            622      473    se     8       758        875     1.04
RtMmatvaw viatas                  290      339           301      49S          357       582           496 5e                 579     8a09       912     1.083
DW"BM                                so2      830           991      712         1,23       909         1.581      s99         1.997    1.587      1.983    2381
121      162          129      203           136      265           144       249          152      356       404       476
ill      if!    _     4        S       a                2             LSe     112        2       11         Zi
wwN   opw88ag                         42      155            54      202            72      194            93       89          119      180       492       210
NawM5MoUpzo ms                        74       129           82      173            90      1s1            9S       153          107      210       281       326
NXe~~~~~~~7                              113         1.41      54          1149  1.52             1.23       Mi          221    1221       2.22       1.1
Int4t g 6 to op>w r                       253      370           2e5      391          242      443            24<      398           358     718      1,041     1.120
a             r.4a.a              421      53            2sa      152         1.         292         1.21       13          1.S      1221       1.214      li
CcewPO  tax                                 0         0            0        0             0        0             0        0             0        0         0         0
Nd.8araa1.u                        b       21   133              2o54sa8 g152         142    22              1          5I           15  _             12          23



-37-                                                                          ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: BALANCE SHEET
(RP. BILLION)
91122                  922t93                  93194          .         9,94                   9'5       _      s5          I
__  SAR Est.Act        SAE ESL Actual   SAR ESt ACtUal    SAM EstAtSctu al                                  tual    Actual          st.
ASI!
FtxMAttds                                   1tB 15sa   27               1  ZLfI            am   2111    371                               ALMl  D4M1   ALM 5
NaloijA*trvatt                         13J8O    10,513        15,887   13,441        22,135   17A04          25.00   18.45d         30.782   27.211      2i.353    3.884
Gm= aro mn Samoa                  19,345   13,942         22,752   17,572        30.456   22291t        W5.58M   19.978         43,383   2s.774     32,747    42,489
A4znuatiedr.a8808                  5,535    3.429          8.785    4,124         8,321    4.987         10.251      520        12,001    1,553       3.3SS     5.005
Ws4iAm   rgi                           5.898    5,043          8.80,    8,258         8.85    9,927         11,722   12,904         15,138   13.521      17.708    17,003
CuffwA Asset                                 l2 8m                   LR   L1                11  1                  1231  152               28   MM   Mi   4m
Cash                                       18        804           377      91            425      853            488      754           s59      840       1St40       023
Gromaccons g,e..abl.                     418       503           484      583           583      e7e            870      784           762      go0
A1osmutbrbaddobt                                (13)                   (1S)                   (17)                    (20)                    23
N  atee.88m48e                            419       491           484       589          683       859           870      784           782      885         52;      1,110
Gtn       n                              377      413            340      588           387      779            487      790           517      735
Am0sAte8VowWerOitormt                            (4)                     (5)                    (7)                     (a)                    (7)
Not tWnterlz                               377       408           340      583           387      773            467      782           517      728         as1       853
OOtwhe muwast                              103       178           108       182          113        71           118       82           124      1l9         27      1.544
Othw Asses                                    Le    la                zt   an                Zn   tm                 an   zu                 an   an             il
S lgt8nd8s                                             0                       0                     15                     57                    120         110       254
418tt   ut,                                          154                    G11                    I78                     872                    570         814       477
TOWAssats32114 1                                                   21.17 Jug4               1ae 82271   sUrn                             4&8 1J140 42   Sim1  MM
EQUT)EAN L-lUTDn
Pai44acaptal                            13,371    9.s81         15,089   11.891         18.955   15.310        19.910   19294         21.260   22,408      2e,729    29.222
.uwMne 6.ty                          13171    9,s50         15.000   11.ee1         16,955   15.318        19.010   19.294        21.260   22,4as      28.729    25.22
ceigp* dse" 908a                 0.147      ,153         9,022    8.853         9,822    6.853         10.552   13.000        11.202   13.000      13.000    13800
Addlain GwA .tty                 5.224    2,038          6.067    5.228         7,133    s,882          8.4      8,294        10,0e8    SA,8       13.725    18,222
Co  m,emk                                 0         0             0        0             0        0              0        0             0        0                    
Raingdeumgs                                214      729           9W8    1.185          2.120    1.347         3.481       289         5.389    1.020       1,737     1,.74
-s=l~~~~~!                              12           MB       1e47          1.121    1421          1.21    1.31            14    LOl           181        110
1M 5biN                      _ 2               1   UK                LI  U2zi 7,   11453    1741 (2120   1m   121   13   21
LMTD&bmaans(t axM p        nom)          4.798    4,1M8          7.488    5.031        10,483    8,185         13.180    6.930        17847    0,529       148900    18.187
Lorng4mmo o(LTD)                       4,798    4.195          7.488    4,731        10,483    5.285         13,180    e.030        178047    7031       12,210    18,589
80nds                                                                     300                     0oo                    900                  1,898       2,508     2.598
OtI*rUabd0w                                502       884           803    3,847           723    4,407            s85    4.107         1.041    5.oDe       2.012     2.5so
Coftnnw Oppms                                     453                     534                    701                     840                  1.03)       I'M85     1.303
Ots                                                231                   3,113                  3.708                  3,347                  3.978       1,817     1.571
s munS                                       1.182    1411            HE2   1.22            811    Ln             I211    i12a g212    2,                    2120       21
Cu,tponionLTD                              388       402           320      448           328      487            4S4      540           4S9    1.227         803     1.408
Aceeun"DeW psymi542                                  859            58e     e81            597      583           027       879          859       9Ol        744       730
Oth.C.n.bt..                                 03      437             88      598           104      883           188    1.907            114    1,803       1.380     1,374
Lai9ites letoRo 81                                   7                     85                    141                     348                    457
ln*811mpa4ys                                      353                     415                    414                     552                    934
ahw                                                 77                      85                    108                   1.007                   293
TWmucva,Ad            .                    21.1a        1            L       24.3$         31401   21a41          St,"j;  2t0   i          40   gm            0L        1



- 38 -                                                                         ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: PLN-FIJNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(RP. BILLION)
21h22                  R2tS                       WNM                       10s4                     199S1S0                    19
JARia Acu.  s                                                                                                          ___.UK ______ j   1967
SAR Est Aetua          SAR Oat hE etuA&        SAR Fst   Actzu2           SAN    t    Acku,tl       SAR Esg   Actuml   Actual    Evt
LB  LB                     t LB                LB   LIE    M4   lilt   LB  L 4447 4B 
opwP    6e                                           ns                      gm           J.304         002          0,0m          972         o273    1,760      2.064     1.92
ith t )                           2s                      29           1                                        I5         l           (0)      220       (11(8
so      121                     996           I9m on    Is3          s                 620 159 57    1,043            1.63       2210
orw                                         1SO      Ce            1n7      232            227          s20           204         450           277      #4e        Su        062
D9ff. C w_caDb                            100       42             96      162            107         362            1009        300            04      20        370       24"
Ca,w,mv44p_                                9I       54            101       91            120         167            146         141           173      091       194       100
DDWlk" gourw m                  la       Lii            I                        l          .iUI                                      n                 an       L
D                                                    63             GM41  03  a o    6gm    62           o             072         398           9S2      076      2,115  2   2Z3
- h*a."g"5d*mwa                             213     243            299       207            242         293           244         2z9            388      47      1,041      1,120
Dt                                       320      290            3         2220                      463            V2          10            494       79      1.079      W00
:Ed~~~~~                                                                                                     ~          ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ qO     0  200
C.P.M*m                                                                                                  a~~~~~  00                           0         0         0w
192                  (1,737)                       19                        (7   s                                     1.20
70                     607                        422                     10.4                      289       g16       72n
h8                                           5s      113             03   (2.2e             11          (Z27)            5       (1.937)         o00     (222       400        702
Ch.I W,t3et4 = . 0.1 a0,.paOal(            0       (41)             3       se             11         21                        (537)          1DS      147       S7       1.s
0059.                                              174                   C2.340                       (4                       (.00)                    (290       (4)    (g7m
f_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    2=                                         mm                         mu 2   UR                  im            m          M        a            
LB II              UR11  LEE                           UKELI          LI                        LB  LEE   uS   EL
0..ma..a .q.4y                             1.246   2274            675    2.730             0         344                       3.240           850    4.477      4.243     2492
OIP                                                                         s 6                                                 97                   1.025     2.186      1,292
P.dA .   d 4b16p8 #mft                          1,70                    1.0                          497                      2.6te                 3X452      1577       1,290
c _ "Ay0                                                                       a                          0                         a                       a         a       - o
Lowe                                                as9 603      3069    1.236           3297        1,000          3.0           "a          5.102    214$      3,4S7     499
so54       .XL 9*)                        gas    3es            3.056      on      X      2i7        1,000         31025         9on         5.12    1,147      2.797    4,5d
Ban*                                        0        0              0       00              0         Mc0              0           0             0      egg       700       300
12OL22MU                         am   anI                mu  LB                   WI    LB                  Liui   LEE                LE   IZ   LuN   LB
*-inteixLe                                    UN  2m                Am   km                  I"    LE                  Lo   tf4                  LK  LB   US   LEMt
Ca    090 06'49                          3,372   3X722           S.1      a79           50794         0 172         5152                      9.458    sse2       7.405     7.S9
458495059994a9919509                      229       11            24        78            436         316            us                        737      461        a67 .   1.292
mcn)      i             iE        in             A           gm              2           Ii D         1924   Liu       1.111   gUIm
C558006.5..9.67W                           062      706            199      804            277         v1e            425         853           496      704       "a       0.960
IS9     904            277      et9            425         899            469         754           659      649      I.m0        821



MAP SECTION



IRD 22597
1i 1O                                                               INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
UNDER       PROPOSED     DEVUELPET      rasliOnies
EXISTING    CONSTRUCTION    PROJECT      OEVELOPMENT    500        LV
SUMATERA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50k
-SO kV ond 70 kV
Power Stations
500 kV SubstIaions
Er  obyarJAKARTA S*                                                                                                                                                                                    150 kV and 70 kV Substations
W.(iod.  Sre mmre I-P 
Petrokimi;1 C    S  t- -- -- 
S-S                                                        K,d,uay S                                                                                                XIV    PLN's Wiloyah Numbers
,R. 1   ,,       nod.nrnkk                                                                                                     *      Wilcyah or Distribusi Headquarters
hl, rg,}l1\e C S i I Sgk mdi Indirmosu -W.-y                                                                                                 .......  PUN', Wilayah Boundciries
W  ; ,1 4sL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V                                '    Ic3Z  uoreNn
rl.e. 1epol pomolP&  g               e       DOD O  DemuR  dut  ooo
C lge,e e  le 3    \9uC  IF <1                                      _       s                  bmrn                 wDlr    -lbn
Raw JAWA   BARAT                    Enejo                                JAWA  TENGAN                                                                     en.n,SURABAYA          Be."kbn
*we wo t sh s st- ewssswb         XIV                                                  V.n1DD3' \W ,I m t    bug\       Ugao                                                           ne o5uekl
TNd RsanPs ;r>us                                                                                                                                                wyrmt sumodro \4 mDIDyp .*-   PuntOkeltl |cO hP____ i_____ ___i Gpmbp ...  *. CpIon  --GrmdSO 
xi                                                                                                                                                                        P ... knTnknlr   *..Mn'  3ate  iln 
a,tF Paraapth k-~                                                                                ' Rtj<,                 Elaunk (IMederl)  >*, _ _<*<r1rX   E                    oNg-l
106. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wae.URd                                                                                                        d    'WW  .
L  =   =   =  =   =     _  |                                                                        oWomxterl         ,           JAWA TIMU9                   /Y  bWeto \      4 Probollnggo   poiton /~~~~~~~IAA TMUR  3  Pabolagg    Pa
JAKARA                                                                                                                                                                    A,ag    a 'I.,VX
Cengko.eng  r     K _mcy_ -on    Tgnl  hg    z  K                                                        EIJn                                                                                Ingv)eP  P   D  ] 1>  -ttoromdkD    es  b   _  _   , ; q   p^^   dJA6  aR t  l
\KP      d -atu r Va   S E M A R A N G
S   '>lb 9 ;mdku nd9>                                          /                  PeLrok I T 10           w C SmPik
Tarneadag          Otnba P\ a      F,,,  I t                      s r b9            --
Dond,    X        C l15ngsl   F      >     e     o    st   Somorong                   l Xmodz  \          g       SmponZ           e       O            StZ         IL]D         I10 KILOMETERS
X    \\S;r         Nabaldar \o    4o   eb---                                                         tb ID  l   MILES
1 4'       9
112                                                      PeERUARY 199



