Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6842
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
June 24, 1987
General Agriculture II Div sion
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted dis1tibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC    -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (now NABARD)
CP      -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
OWPRS   -  Central Water and Power Research Station
DACCF   -  Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forest and Fisheries
DPF     -  Department of Ports and Fisheries
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FPCS    -  Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies
FTD     -  Fisheries Terminal Divisions
GFCCA   -  Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association
GOG     -  Government of Gujarat
GOI     -  Government of India
IDA     -  International Development Association
MFV     -  mechanized fishing vessel
NABARD  -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (formerly ARDC)
OBM     -  Outboard Motor
PISFH   -  Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Harbors
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report of the World Bank
SCF     -  Standard Conversion Factor



FOR OFFICl"IAUS ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OUke of Difeatqw.eftwaa
Op&atvn. hatuatinn
June 24, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Gujarat Fisheries
Proiect (Loan 1394-INICredit 695-IN)
Attached1 for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on India Gujarat Fisheries Project (Loan 1394-INlCredit 695-
IN)" prepare' by an FAO/World Bank Coopcrative Programme. Further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by neipients ony in the pefomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otheroi be disclosed without World Oank autho oiL



FOR OMaL US ONLY
I1NDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJBCT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
PROJECt COMPLETION RSPOR'T
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE                    ..*e.e oO......@eO.................oeeE*O  iii
BASIC DAtA SHEET  ...e.,.........*s.o*.e.oa.eeooo**eeeeoo   iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY   *4.O**OO4.*O,..O4.,@.4,4Og.v4gOO****O           V
.. INLROWCTION  . .        ....... *  ... ................              1
II.  PRCJECT IDENTIFICATION, PRUPARXION AND APPRAISAL.  .........         2
Project Origin                                                      2
Reconnaissance  ....................3...............                3
Identification/Preparation                                          3
Pre-appraisal/Appraisal  .....  Oe .................... .........    4
Project Description                                                 4
III.  PROJECT IMPLEk1N'TATION  ...................                        5
Loan Negotiations and Effectiveness                                  5
Project Changes after Appraisal                                     6
Implementation Schedule ................0... 0                      6
Implementation of Harbour Improvement Component                     7
Implementatiou of Other Project Ccponents                          9
Consultants and Coutractors  ...,.......*...*, ......   ...........   12
Project Cost  ................ ........... *0000 ....** ...  .........   12
Project Financing and Loan/Credit Allocation  .................     13
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVLOMPNENT  .      ...................    13
Implementing Agencies         ................. ......, Se......    13
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association  ...........    14
Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies        ....................   16
Fisheries Terminal Division  ..................................   16
Accounting and Reporting  ...................... ..00.0.0..000     17
Compliance with Covenants  ..........           ............   17
Thb document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-li-
V.  PRW EC' IMPACT1 ...............................  18
Intended Impact                                                     18
Assessment of Actual Project Impact  ............,..............   18
Fishermen's Income from Vessels  ........................,.....   21
Re-Estimated Economic Rates of Return  ..........................   21
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE      ...... .........................              22
overall Performance                                                 22
Supervisi   o n    ..........................................   23
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ....oo 0 0   000................ 000 000  23
TABLES
1.  Comparison of Appraisal and Actual Costs
2.  Actual Expenditures on Harbour Improvement and Shore Facilities -
Veraval larbour
3.  Actual Expenditures on Harbour Improvement and Shore Facilities -
Mangrol Harbour
4.  Comparison of Appraised and Actual Improvements - Veraval
5.  Comparison of Appraised and Actual Improvements - Mangrol
6.  Physical Parameters of Principal Works
7.  Financing of Credit Components
8.  Schedule of Disbursements (Cumulative)
9.  Allocation of CreditiLoan Proceeds
10. Proposed and Present-Staffing of ElDs
11. Quick Freezipg and Ice Making Facilities in Project Area
12.  Present Processing Units at Principal Forts
13.  GECCA - Comparative Balance Sheets
14. GFCCA - Comparative Profit & Loss Accounts
15.  GFCCA - MFV Loans and Recovery Position as at 31 December 1985
16.  FPCS in Project Villages
17.  Fishing Vessels in the Yroject Harbours
18.  Estimated Marine Fish Landings in Project Area (Centre Wise)
19. Landing Prices of Important Fish at Veraval
20. Escalation in Diesel & Lubricating Oil Prices
21.  Cash Flow Projection - 14.8m Trawler
22.  Cash Flow Projection - Canoe with Outboard Motor
23.  Cash Flow Projection - Outboard Motor (for Existing Canoe)
24.  Re-Estimated Economic Rate of Return - Veraval Harbour
25.  Re-Estimated Economic Rate of Return - Mangrol Harbour
26.  Re-Estimated ERR - Total Project
Chart Organizational Structure of GFCCA Ltd.
1. Important Fishing Centres in Gujarat
2. Veraval Harbour
3. Mangrol Harbour
Annex I - Comments from GOI



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1394-IN/CREDIT 695-IN)
PREFACE
The following is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the first World
Bank financed fisheries project in South Asia.
The  Gujarat  Fisheries   Project   (Loan  1394-IN/Credit  695-IN)  was
appraised in May 1976 and was approved on March 31, 1977. The loan/credit was
signed on April 22, 1977 and amounted to US$14.0 million (loan) and US$4.0
million (credit) as against an estimated overall project cost of US$38.0 million
equivalent (including duties and taxes)  of which the foreign exchange component
was put at US$11.5 million. The loan/credit became effective on July 19, 1977.
The project was expected to be closed by June 30, 1983 but actually closed in
March 1985. The Government of India (GOI) and the Go-rernment of Gujarat (GOG)
were the ultimate recipients of the loan/credit. Final disbursement reached 91%
of the total loan/credit amount.
The PCR was originally prepared by GOG based on a review of the Project
Appraisal Report (No. 1326b-IN) dated March 16, 1977, the President's Report
(No. P-1974-IN) dated March 16, 1977, and the Credit Agreement dated April 22,
1977. At the request of IDA, and with GOI's concurrence, FAOICP subsequently
prepared the attached PCR, incorporating analysis based on supervision reports
and other project files, as well as interviews with some members of the
appraisal mission, supervising staff,  and  consultants.   Key officials of GOI,
GOG, NABARD (formerly ARDC), GFCCA, and DPF were also interviewed by the FAOICP
PCR mission and provided useful information.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments on March 5,
1987. Comments received from GOI are attached to the PCR as Annex I and their
content has been taken into consideration in the final preparation of the
report.
This report has not been subjected to audit by OED.



-iv-
haect  Gometo   R
Iaac Data am
Appafeai                          ~~~AOe.l as
MM ftW= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ bet cLT                                                       At.o  sm;
lotimm                           ~~~La lL
Total frojeat cost (028 mil)                   28.0                     34.9                   92
Credit XAoe  (US$ millie.)                      4.0                      4.0                  100
Loft Ammt (US$ m )                              14*0                    12.24                  6I
Date of Bard Approwal                      MWQb 31, 1977            Wat 321. 19??
Date of Sffectivemou                       Jaus 19. 1977            J    19, 1977
Data,e wLAcalmpopse CGeploted                                       Jose 1986
QOdr5  Date                                Juo 30. 1962             Ju  20, 1984
Econoic Rate of Ratur                        24.0                      1U.0
Inatitutioul Perfeanco                                                 tfet
iheory Pergormae                                                        go"
STAFF IDIUTS (Staff vteha)
MG uzi                     no mm                       ma ma Ml ma
prppraisal                  5.0
Appraisal                  37.8  18.0
legotia4d o                       14.0
Supweieoa                         32.5   7.    6.3   11.9   3.1  14.3   8.9   2.9               8.1
Other (HQ and M0O)                12.5  124   12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5   6.0   2.0   1.0
Total                      42.8  48.0  20.0  18.8  24.4  17.6  26.8  21.4  16.4   6.0  10.1   1.0
CIILATZV3 DISWRS
i m  ma m  ml in ma Ea
Appra:ta1 Zgatimto (?U8 dillift)                0.2   3.0   8.3  14.0  U.4  18.0  18.0  18.0
Actual (tut8 dllion)                              -     1.1   8.6  10.1  12.0  13.9  13.9  16.42
Actuals S of gatt,                                0      37   4U    72    69    77    77    91
Date of fitL Dibur_sestt  MaW 10. 19
MISSION AA
Date                NO. of  Ibday   Spe"Amaitiow  ltftornme                     Tto Of
(A )        go tk   leWo     in feld  RSwES53d  I&  MUt. J1   f,  La kh                   Iob   d
Recosnaae           N/w-DtY4   YAO/CP        4       120    3, D, a
zdsst./prep.        Jol-Aug"5  110/Ct       6       189    D, D, 3
Appraisal           iW-JaM/76  IDA           7       189    Aost.0DI,*Gly
Saipeviaon 1        Jue/77        IDA        1        10    A                    I             1
Supervision tI      March/78      IDA        3        30    A. 8, 3              1             1         1ff
Supervision in      NoI/78       IDA         3        24    A* D                 1             1
Supos ision 1V      July/79       IDA        3        326    s D,                1             1 I
Suapeigoa    V      Feb/80        IDA         2       16    0, *                 2             2         on
supervision VI      Oct-lV/80   IDA          2        16    DI a                 2             2         ml
Supervidai  VIZ     July/61       IDA         2       28     9, 3                2             1         of
Supervision VIII    feb/U2        1D         3        36    J, a                 2             2         1
Suptviaie IX   Sept-Oct/UI  ID               3        24    1. D.8               2             t    1
Supervision         Apr/83        lDa        2        12    DI B                 3             1         w
Supdevision SX      Oct/83        tDA        2        12    Vs a                 2             2         II
CoITLotioo          Mta/86        lAO/Ct     3        33    Be De. t
0U  PRJCS  DATA
sorroer                    Core  mt of cdi./Gsvenset ef  ;ujar
fisea Year of Borrwer    I Apri to 31 Mra
MNe of Orre                 Ap_  (Ma)
Carter lcae latet  Awrisal tr Us81 s o   9.00
Zatorveng a"ra k'leraae   m8         1t  R e 8.20
1m9   181 a s 8.10
F110   US$l sR   7.90
1181    S$1 a 1  8.95
S2    U$1 a  s 9.65
12   US$1 a  s 10.30
FM   118 1 as t1.90
F115   9S$1e1 t  .20
1M     US1a * M12.40
La                 TY. a - 3caamca. C Creitt. D - Porto Civil 3msLing 3 - fiodbd o*
i -   ii   foa se    apert. a - Shore FACiities Rtport. a - Lta Ofticer
ak  1 - ftobls rfeo or Mise Problem. 2 -  adaerate Probim. 2 - Major preoblus
1 - Iptoprmw      2 - StAticlrys 3 - Deterioraing
i I - Iin^m3ClI M -  mAsiulj? S- Tehicalj P - folitteial  0 - Other



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1394-IN/CREDIT 695-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The project was the first  IDA-assisted  fishery project in South Asia.
It was to be the initial phase in a series of projects that would establish a
modern fishing industry  in  India.    During  the  decade preceding the project
(1966-1975), marine catch and  marine  product  exports  increAed at an average
annual rate of about 82 and 132 respectively.   This Wds brought about by a sub-
stantial expansion of fishing vessels, which placed considerable strain on
existing infrastructure, particularly on harbor and on-shore facilities. The
Government of India (GOI), recognizing these constraints, commissioned the Swe-
dish government to review all marine fishing harbors and facilities and to draw
up plans for removing bottlenecks.   GOI also placed high priority on developing
this subsector in its 5th Five-Year Development Plan.
Objectives
2.       The main objectives of  the  project  were to overcome over-crowding at
two existing fishing harbors and improve marketing channels and facilities by
modernizing and expanding the harbors and shore facilities on the Cujarat state
shoreline, the major northwest marine fishing ground of India. In add:tion, the
project was to finance motorized fishing vessels and the modernization of tradi-
tional fishing craft, as well as to initiate a modest program aimed at improving
living conditions in selected fishing villages. The major features of the proj-
ect weres (a) improvement of two major fishing harbors in northwest India; (b)
Improvement of shore facilities and services at these two harbors; (c) provision
of credit to entrepreneurs to establish fish processing, freezing and ice plants
at the two harbors; (d) construction and  equipping of 270 14.8 m MFV and 'rovi-
sion of canoes and outboard motors and their sale on credit and/or hirelpu 'hase
to cooperatives and fishermen; (e) provision of two net making machines for the
cooperative (GFCCA); (f) technical assistance for test fishing, marketing stud-
ies, and project implementation. Total project costs were estimated at US$38.0
million. The World Bank provided an IBRD loan of US$14.0 million and an IDA
credit of US$4.0 million.   The  balance  of  project  costs was to be funded by
GOI/GOG, ARDC, participating banks, anl borrowers.
Implementation
3.       With the  benefit  of  hindsight,  the  appraisal sought over-ambitious
targets. Project implementation was subj4act to delays, initially caused by
changes in harbor design.   The  resultant additional surveys and investigations
required, contractual disputes, and the effects of three hurricanes all delayed



- vi -
completion of the harbors to Junte 1986 (SAR's completion date was December
1981). Because of delays in harbor construction, installation by public sector
organizations of many of the processing facilities was postponed and, even-tual-
ly, dropped. These facilities, however, were subsequently established by the
private sector in anticipation of the eventual completion of the harbor facili-
ties. In addition, a cooperative sector enterprise - Gujarat Fisheries Central
Cooperative Association (GFCCA) - with heavy commitments to the public sector
and which was an under-financed and weak organization, was to rapidly increase
its activities over a four to five year period and implement a number of compo-
nents, e.g. provide mechanized fishing vessels (MFV), canoes, outboard motors
(OBM), construct And operate net-making plants ard fish marketing facilities.
This it failed to do. All of the IDA credit was disbursed, but US$1.58 million
of the IBRD loan was cancelled.
Results
4.       Despite delays in implementation, IDA  assistance under the project has
resulted in development of essential infrastructure required to support the
marine fisheries subsector at a time when the need for such facilities was being
keenly felt.   As  a  result,  the main  constraints  facing  this subsector in
Gujarat, mainly excessive overcrowding at harbors and spoilage of fish, have
been alleviated. The project has had a positive impact on fishery development.
The main benefits weres (i) two harbors were developed; (ii) the MFV trawler
fleet doubled between 1976 and 1985; (iii) annual fish production increased from
73,000 to 138,000 tons; and (iv) annual shrimp production increased by 4,100
tons (earning about US$18 million in foreign exchange). Even though investment
in public sector fish processing facilities was reduced, the stimulus of the
expanded harbor facilities enabled t'ne private sector to develop processing
capacity beyond that estimated  for  the  project.   Moreover, incomes of tradi-
tional fishermen increased as the actual cstch of MFV was 10 to 20X higher than
that estimated at appraisal.    Finally,  the  prices  paid for marine fish have
shown an upward trend and are considerably above those prevailing at the time of
appraisal. The ERR for the project has been re-estimated at 16%, compared to
the SAR estimete of 242. Most components had a much higher FRR than anticipated
by the SAR. Despite higher ^osts, poor performance by the cooperative sector in
provision of processing components, delays in construction and three successive
hurricanes that destroyed expensive breakwaters and other harbor civil works, it
can be concluded that this project has created much needed infrastructure
required by fishermen and private sector processors. It has removed congestion
in Gujarat's fishing harbors, provided increased amounts of fresh fish, and
stimulated the private sector to provide fishery products that earned signifi-
cant foreign exchange.
Sustainability
5.       The overall favorable impact of  the  project on development of private
sector fish processing capacity and on the quantity and quality of fish landed
is the main indicator of a favorable degree of sustainability of project
benefits.



- vii -
Findings and Lessons
6.       Var..ous lessons can  be  learned  from  implementation of this project.
The principal ones are:
(a) It is desirable to have investigation and design for major works com-
pleted prior to  loan  negotiations.    This  is particularly important
where complex works such as breakwaters are involved. Where this is
not possible, the implementation schedule needs to provide adequate
time for such pre-construction Investigational activities.
(b) When significant design changes take place after appraisal, it is
necessary to ensure that provision of critically important equipment
(in this case a floating crone) required for successful completion of
works is ensured  either  by  being  available with the contractor, or
provision made for its early acquisition.
(c) Particular attention should be paid to the design of credit recovery
from beneficiaries when this is through an institution which dt%es not
control a large part of the marketed output and when the lending banks
do not have sufficient field offices and staff for loan recovery. 001
has suggested that credit should be routed through the Stete Fisheries
Directorate where loan recoveries have been more successful.
(d)  Due consideration should be given to fishermen's choico in the procure-
ment of equipment (in this case OBMs) and in the design of equipment
(fiberglas canoes), as their efficient use requires acceptability of
the makelmodel.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-INlCredit 695-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since 1976, the development of fisheries has been given high priority
by the Government of India (GOI), with marine fish products being an impor-
tant element in India's export trade. In addition, the sector provides
improved employment opportunities in the fishing districts, and augments the
protein content in the fishing fleet, with the number of mechanized fishing
vessels (MFV) increasing from 3,000 to 11,000. At the same time, marine
catch and marine product exports increased at an average annual rate of about
8% and 13% respectively. However, the principal constraints to further
growth were been to be the shortage of harbour and fish processing facilities
which had not developed in line with the MFV expansion. In recognition of
this, various efforts were made by GOI as well as the state Government, to
prepare investment proposals for deireloping such facilities in the coastal
states of India. At the same time, other studies (for example, the FAO/UNDP
sponsored "Indian Ocean Fishery Commission") pointed out that while there was
limited basic catch and effort data available, the general resources were
capable of withstanding a considerably increased level of exploitation.
1.02    Based on the above, the Gujarat Fisheries Project, the subject of
this completion report, was initiated as the first World Bank financed marine
fisheries project in India. Gujarat state, with the longest coastline and
the largest continental shelf area, had a very active fishing population and
crowded facilities. The number of MFVs operating from Gujarat bases had gone
up from 400 in 1965 to 1,300 in 1975. However, in spite of this growth and
the fact that the state commands nearly 25X of India's continental shelf, it
accounted for only around 12-15% of India's marine catch.
1.03    The project provided for the improvement of fishing harbours, shore
facilities and services at Mangro and Veraval, credit for fish net manufac-
turing machines, as well as for establishing fish processing, freezing and
ice plants, and the construction of MFVs and their sale on credit to fisher-
men. In addition, the project provided for assistance to traditional fisher-
men by the provision, on credit, of fishing canoes and outboard motors (OBM),
and improvement in the fish marketing system and infrastructure serving eight
selected fishing villages. Finally, a technical assistance component for
test fishing, marketing studies, and project implementation was included.
Over a five-year period (1977/78-81/82) the project was estimated to cost
US$38 million (Rs 341.7 million). With the exception of the test fishing
operations (for which GOI was responsible), and the credit components (to be



-2-
financed through various participating banks), the implementation respon-
sibility for all other components was with the Government of Cujarat (OG),
under the Department of Ports and Fisheries (DPF), formerly the Department of
Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forest and Fisheries (DACFF), with the Commis-
sioner of Fisheries as Project Coordinator.
1.04    A Project Completion Report was prepared by the Project Coordinator
in December 1984. That report, along with traditional information provided
by the office of the Commissioner of Fisheries, and the Superintendent
Engineer responsible for supervising the harbour construction work, provide
the basis for this PCR. In addition, this report is based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR No. 1326b-IN); the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement both dated April 22, 1977; World Bank supervision
reports and project files; a field visit to the two harbour sites; and dis-
cussions with project related staff at both Ahmedabad, and at the ports.
Interviews were held with members of the appraisal mission, supervision staff
and consultants and with key officials of GOI, COG, DPF, the Gujarat
Fisheries Central Cooperative Association (GFCCA), and the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), formerly Agriculture Refinance
Development Corporation (ARDC).
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATICN, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin
2.01    With the rapid growth in marine fishery activities in the late six-
ties and early seventies, particularly by the relatively smaller traditional
credit, and a general awareness that considerable marine resources were
available for exploitation even within the shallower parts of the continental
shelf, GOI was conscious of the need for further investment to promote this
subsector. Government efforts were complemented by multilateral and
bilateral sources in carrying out investigations and surveys to ascertain the
resource availability and the type and scale of investment required. On the
marine resource side, the FAO/UNDP sponsored "Indian Ocean Fishery Commis-
sion", submitted a 21 volume report in the early seventies summarizing avail-
able knowledge on potential resources of the Indian Ocean. In addition, the
UNDP-supported "Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Harbours" (PISFH) project
(1968-72) 1/ carried out investigations to identify potential harbour sites
for the operation of fishing vessels drawing more than 1.2 meters. Efforts
were already being made by GOI and state governments to promote the use of
mechanized fishing vessels, and the modernization of fishing craft and gear.
1/ Between 1974-76, the project was also supported by the Swedish Interna-
tional Development Authority.



-3-
2.02    During this period mutual interest wao expressed by both GOI and the
World Bank in initiating a marine fisheries project in India. In 1972 GOI
submitted to the WB a report for a possible "tMysore Fisheries Project";
however, at GOI's request, the project was not appraised and was later can-
celled. In 1974, GOI submitted broad proposals for an integrated scheme for
the development of fishing harbours on both the east and west coast of the
country. The WB, however, was not keen on a "harbours only" type of project.
It was felt that the wider needs of the marine fisheries subsector needed to
be addressed by including components to finance fishing vessels, fish
processing and cold storage facilities and marketing, in addition to harbour
development, as wr).l as components targetted at small-scale traditional
fishermen. For the identification of such a project, the WB requested the
FAO/WB Cooperative Programme (CP) to undertake a reconnaissance mission.
Reconnaissance
2.03    A four men CP reconnaissance mission visited India in Novem-
ber/December 1974, to review marine fisheries development proposals prepared
by GOI and various state governments. It was originally intended that the
mission would visit the states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.
However, at the request of GOI, the mission also covered Gujarat, Karnataka
and Maharashtra, for which development schemes had been proposed. Based on
various factors, including the respective sizes of the continental shelf,
estimates of unexploited waters, and stage of project preparation in the
different states, the mission recommended the inclusion of Andhra Pradesh,
Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in a first project. For the state of
Gujarat, the proposals included the improvement/development of fishing har-
bours, with allied shore facilities, at Veraval and Mangrol, site investiga-
tion and additional studies for the Okha and Porbander ports, and the provi-
sion of MFVs. The mission identified additional work which would be essen-
tial to complete preparation.
Identification/Preparation
2.04    As a follow-up to the above, a CP Identification/Preparation mission
visited India in July/August 1975. On arrival, the mission found that the
earlier mission's report had not been transmitted to the state governments
and the data necessary to complete preparation, as identified in that report,
had not been collected. After discussions with GOI, agreement was reached on
the inclusion of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala in a first phase
fisheries development project.
2.05    The mission, on visiting fish landing centers, found that the rapid
expansion of MFVs had resulted in existing landing facilities becoming
heavily congested, ice production insufficient, and consequently, wastage
of landed catch was considerable. The primary objective of the project was
therefore viewed as being to improve fish quality and reduce waste, by
providing suitable facilities for handling the landed fish catch in the three



-4-
states. A total of seven locations were identified (three in Andhra Pradesh,
and two each in Gujarat and Kerala) for improving/developing fishing har-
bours. For Gujarat the components included the improvement of port
facilities at Veraval and Mangrol (including protected beaches for the land-
ing of canoes), provision of shore facilities and services, ice plants, fish
freezing and storage plants, a.onstruction of 160 canoes with OBMs, and 120
14.8 m MFVs. In addition, 1t was intended that the project would assist in
the improvement of existing vessel0 through the installation of ice boxes, or
the improvement of fish hold i-nsalation.
2.06    While the mission had carried out a more detailed identification of
project components, preparation was still incomplete, and reservations about
the report, on this account, were expressed in the WB. Furthermore, it was
felt that the proposed project did not include adequate support for artisanal
fishermen. Finally, it was agreed in the WB that it would not be possible to
appraise, at one time, seven sub-projects in three states and that in the
first instance, the project should include only one state.
Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal
2.07    Based on discussion between GOI and the WB. the state of Gujarat was
selected for the first marine fisheries project, with the intention that
follow-up projects would cover the other coastal states. In view of the
reservations expressed earlier by the WB on the state of project preparation,
a WB pre-appraisal mission visited India from May 5 to June 2, 1976. The
mission was able to complete preparation and appraise the project. In addi-
tion, it assisted NABARD to complete identification of a subproject for
traditional fishermen, and subsequently appraised it. An important issue
identified at the time of the mission's return from the field related to the
existing financing and organizational weaknesses of GFCCA, an institution
which was expected to play an important role in project implementation. It
was agreed that acceptable proposals, together with an implementation
schedule, for the rehabilitation of GFCCA should be a condition of nego-
tiations.
Project Description
2.08    As designed at appraisal, the project included the following com-
ponents:
(a)  improvement of the fishing harbours at Mangrol and Veraval to permit
more MFVs to use these facilities and to provide better protection
against adverse weather; in addition, complementary shore facilities
and services (such as auction halls, fish drying areas, gear sheds,
electricity and water supply, fuel stations, etc.) at Mangrol and
Veraval were to be provided to support both the existing fleet and
its future expansion which was expected to occur as a consequence
of the project;



-5-
(b) provision of credit to entrepreneurs to establish fish processing,
freezing and ice plants at the two harbours;
(c) construction and equipping of 270 14.8 m MFVs and their sale on
credit and/or hire purchase to cooperatives and fishermen.
(d) assistance to traditional fisheries by: (i) the provision, on
credit, of 350 9m fishing canoes equipped with outboard motor and
gear, and an additional 1,050 outboard motor; (ii) improvement in the
infrastructure serving eight fishing villages; and (iii) improvement
in the fish marketing system of these villages through the provision
of 4 trucks for use by GFCCA and the construction of a marketing shed
at each village;
(e) provision of two fish net making machines for GFCCA; and
(f) technical assistance for: (i) test fishing operations off the coasts
of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh; (ii) fish marketing study; and (iii)
consultants for project implementation (total of 50 man months, for
harbour engineer, rock excavation specialist, fisheries resource
management specialist, and management specialist).
2.09    With the exception of the test fishing operations for which GOI was
responsible, the project was to be implemented by the Government of Gujarat
(GOG) with refinance for credit operations, based on a previously prepared
Banking Plan being provided by NABARD. A Project Supervision Committee was
to be established at state levelt which would be responsible for organizing
the execution of the project, by delegating responsibilities to appropriate
state agencies. Important agencies among the latter were the Gujarat Ports
Directorate (now Gujarat Maritime Board) which would provide the engineering
staff to supervise harbour constructicn; and the GFCCA, whose functions would
include the construction, along with other local builders, of the project
financed 14.8m MFVs, importing the OBMs, and assisting in obtaining a supply
of canoes for the traditional fishermen. GFCCA would also be a direct
beneficiary as the net making machines would be used in its factory; il would
also be eligible for project loans for the construction and operation of
shore facilities, such as ice and freezing plants, as well as for the pur-
chase of MFVs to be sold under hire/purchase agreements to fishermen.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Negotiations and Effectiveness
3.01    The negotiations between GOI and the WB for the joint IDA credit/IBRD
loan took place between February 7-18, 1977. The Bank's Board of Directors
approved the proposed IDA credit of US$4 million and an IBRD loan of US$14



-6-
million on March 31, 1977. The credit/loan was signed on April 22, 1977 and
became effective on July 19, 1977.
Project Changes after Appraisal
3.02    Various changes were made to the project after appraisal.  With
regard to the harbour component, design changes became necessary, principally
to the proposed development at Veraval. Firstly, the layout of the Veraval
harbour was changed, as there was rapid growth in the MFV fleet (30X increase
between 1977-79). In addition, various other changes to the original design
were made on account of results obtained from additional survey and inves-
tigation work (see section on harbours below) done after appraisal. The
water supply to the harbours was expected, at appraisal, to be provided
through the Municipal water supply system. However, this did not material-
ize, and independent water schemes, dependent on more distant water sources,
had to be formulated and implemented.
3.03    The component for providing credit to entrepreneurs to set up shore
facilities (fish processing, ice plants, etc.) was dropped during implementa-
tion, as private processing capacity in the project area expanded very
rapidly soon after appraisal (see Table 11), and there was no demand for
credit for such purposes. The MFV component was scaled down to 168 units
(SAR proposal was for 270), as the participating banks were reluctant to
provide credit to fishermen for such vessels, in view of their poor
experience in recovering past loans. The traditional fishermen component
provided financing for 344 dug out log canoes and 6 experimental fiberglass
canoes. However, after appraisal, GOI imposed a ban on feliing of logs for
canoes; thereafter, efforts during implementation were directed at developing
a suitable fiberglass canoe and popularizing it among the fishermen. Also
under this component, the number of villages assisted was reduced to seven as
development in one of the villages was supported by a separate GOI sponsored
development scheme. Finally, the services of the fisheries produce manage-
ment specialist, as proposed in the SAR, have not been used.
Iplementation Schedule
3.04    At appraisal, construction of the Ver...'al harbour was expected to be
completed by June 1981, and of the Mangrol harbour by December 1980. The
implementation of all project components was expected to be completed by
December 1981, with a project closing date of June 30, 1983. In fact, the
Mangrol harbour was completed in early 1985, while a small amount of work
is still outstanding in Veraval, with completion expected in June/July 1986.
Because of delays in implementation, the project closing date was extended
to June 30, 1984, with disbursements closing on December 31, 1984.



-7-
Implementation of Harbor Improvement Component
3.05    The proposals for improving the Veraval and Mangrol harbours were
mainly related to construction of breakwaters and quaysp excavation and
dredging, and constructing necessary shore buildings. Other than the onshore
buildings and facilities, the principal works carried out under the project
include for Veraval the extension of existing breakwater (334 m), construc-
tion of new breakwater (500 m), lending and bunkering quays (1,060 m), open
berthing jetties (1,120 m), channel and basin excavation, and deepening of
the fishing harbour area. For Mangrol the principal works carried out
include the extension of breakwater (293 m), construction of a protection arm
(185 m), groyne (75 m), quays (394 m), and basin excavation.  For details of
SAR proposals and actual achievements, in physical terms, refer to tables 4
to 6. Figures 1 and 2 show the layout of the completed harbours. As at
March 1986 both harbours have been largely completed, and are operational.
However, at Veraval some important dolosse armoring work still remains at the
western breakwater head. This work is planned to be completed before the
monsoon season, but successful completion depends on the availability of a
floating crane which was expected to arrive in March/April 1986. At Mangrol,
all the originally proposed works have been completed; however some improve-
ments requested by the fishermen are to be carried out.
3.06    Construction Work.  The implementation of civil works has not been
smooth. There have been changes in harbour layout and design during the
implementation period, which resulted in a significant increase in the scope
of work, as compared to what was envisaged at appraisal. In addition, the
progress of works was hampered by various other factors, which eventually led
to the delay in completing construction work on schedule. At appraisal it
was expected that tendering and appointment of contractors for the civil
works at the two harbours would be completed by November 1977; however, due
to various procedural delays, the contracts were awarded in October 1978, and
work began in January 1979. In addition, the contractor was faced with acute
shortages in cement and diesel, particularly in the early stages (thereby
slowing down progress), the unexpected difficulty in obtaining stones for use
as fill material for the breakwaters, as well as much higher escalation of
prices for essential commodities than provided for in the escalation clause
of the contract. Consequently, the contractor was faced with serious finan-
cial difficulties thereby precluding the possibility of accelerating
implementation. The dispute between the contractor and COG on price escala-
tion was eventually submitted for arbitration in June 1981, and the award was
declared in favor of the contractor, in September 1982. The prolonged
proceedings caused further delays in completing the works. In addition,
three cyclones (two in the fair working season) struck the coast at Veraval,
in October/November 1981 and 1982 and in June 1983, causing damage to the
open 2nd breakwaters and shore structures. The western breakwater in Veraval
suffered further damage during the monsoon of 1984 and 1985, indicating that
the completed part was possibly not sufficiently protected by armoring blocks
prior to the monsoon season. The breakwater construction at Veraval, which



-8-
is a major part of the civil works has also been affected by the absence of
suitable equipment (floating crane) for adequate performance of armoring
works.
3.07    Implementation Problems.  Apart from the reasons described above
several technical factors have affected the work progress. At Mangrol unex-
pected difficulties were faced with dewatering, within the coffer-dam area on
account of the fissured nature of the rock bed. In addition, there was
unforeseen extensive rock excavation necessary in the harbour basin.
3.08    At Veraval modifications in the layout were made in 1979.  The
revised layout included significant increase of length of landing and outfit-
ting delays, as well as the repair berth. The location of the berthing
jetties was changed to the opposite side of the harbour basin and the basin
was widened by 50 m which increased the excavation volume. The planned
slipway was changed to a straight quay, and it was decided to use a crane for
lifting and placing the boats in the repair yard.
3.09    Continuous modifications have been made to the Veraval breakwater
design during the implementation period, based on additional investigations
carried ouc. First, hydrographic surveys done after appraisal showed deeper
contours much closer to the shore along the western breakwater, and deeper
depths at the roundhead location. In addition, new data regarding wave
heights and wave period had been collected. Based on these additional data,
flume-studies were carried out at the Central Water and Pcwer Research Sta-
tion (CWPRS), Pune, the results of which provided the basis for the modifica-
tions made. The modifications increased the scope of work considerably for
both the breakwaters. For the western breakwater it was decided to use 10.5
tons dolosse instead of 5 tons stones (as compared to original estimates)
above low-water on the harbour side. It was also decided to raise the top
level of the breakwater by 1.4 m, provide a crest-slab and a parapet wall. A
significant widening of the berms was also introduced. The eastern break-
water was modified similarly resulting in considerable increase of quantities
and cost.
3.10    As suggested by the PISFH, further soil investigations were carried
out in order to decide final type and level of foundation for the quay.
These findings necessitated modifications on the initial design of the quay
walls. The absence of continuous rocky stratum was also observed which
resulted in opening of a quarry for recovery of fill material. The overall
effect of these modifications, has been that a significantly higher volume of
work has had to be carried out than originally envisaged (see Table 6).
3.11    For deepening of the harbour area and excavation of an entrance
channel, purchase of dredging machinery and equipment was provided for in the
project. Considerable delays were experienced in the acquisition of the
dredging equipment as GOG proposed dredging to be carried out under contract
in preference to acquiring new equipment for departmental operations under



-9-
the project. Consequently tenders were floated for both alternatives, i.e.
acquisition of new equipment as well as contract dredging. Due to lack of
experience and the complexities of assessing the two &lternatives, the whole
process took a long time. Eventually, it was decided to purchase (import) a
heavy-duty cutter section dredger with accessories. After procedural for-
malities, agreement for delivery was executed in April 1980. Shipping of
the equipment and assembling of the components took another two years and
training of operating personnel took about six months. Combined with this
delay 'n acquiring the equipment, the need for dredging a larger area than
originally envisaged was found necessary in view of the increase in the size
of the basin. The major work with rock and soft dredging was completed by
the end of 1984. Dredging is still going on for deepening of an area for
future expansion.
3.12    Improvements of Shore Facilities and Services.  The improvement of
shore facilities and services provided for under the project (other than the
fish processing facilities) are mainly related to various buildings (auction
halls, gear sheds, workshops, canteen, offices, etc.), electricity, drainage,
water supply, and roads. Details of buildings and facilities proposed at
appraisal, and actually implemented are shown in Table 4 for Veraval, and
Table 5 for Mangrol. The auction hall at Veraval was changed to three halls
(instead of one as proposed) though with a small reduction in floor area.
Office buildings, canteens and gear sheds have been constructed mainly in
accordance with the original plans. At the time of appraisal, a scheme for
water supply to Veraval was underway, through the municipal water supply
system, which was expected to provide water for the harbour. However, this
did not materialize, which necessitated a water supply scheme exclusively for
the project. Wells at Hiram River approximately 18 km from the harbour are
yielding adequate quantities of potable water for the port. The problems
with source of water resulted in both time and cost overrun. Water supply
for Mangrol has been linked with a scheme for a fishing village without major
problems. Roads and paved areas have been found necessary to construct to a
larger extent than envisaged at appraisal. At Veraval road works are still
being executed with the aim of completing a ring road around the harbour
area; in addition some works have still to be completed with regard to, among
others, the auction halls and drainage.
Implementation of Other Project Components
3.13    Mechanized Fishing Vessels.  As opposed to the appraisal target of
270 14.8m MFVs, a total of 137 14.8m MFVs were financed under the project.
Three boat builders were involved in their construction - two government
companies (including GFCCA), and one private boat building yard. The
modality of financing evolved was that GFCCA would be the primary borrower of
the banks for all the MFVs allotted under the project, and they in turn would
supply them to the selected beneficiaries under hire/purchase terms. GFCCA
was responsible for the recovery of the loans, and its repayment to the
banks, for which they were allowed to retain half percent interest margin.



-10-
3.14    The loan recovery mechanism, however, did not work well (see para
4.05), and the banks stopped financing MFVs at the end of 1980, as arrears of
repayments started accumulating. In November 1980 the boat builders were
informed not to start any new keels. In spite of numerous meetings between
NABARD, the banks and GOG, the program could not be revived, and it was
decided to stop implementation of the component with achievement at 137 MFVs.
The annual achievements in physical and cost terms are shown in the table
below; credit disbursed by the different banks included under the banking
plan in the program is shown in Table 15.
Year            No. of MFVs           Total         Total Bank
Financed            Cost           Loans
------ Rs Million -----
1979/80             84                17.80            16.02
1980/81             45                 11.82            9.96
1981/82              8                  2.36            1.99
137               33.98            27.97
A major reason for slow loan recovery was the absence of a proper collection
system at field level by the banks.
3.15    Canoes.  The project provided for 344 traditional dugout log canoes,
and 6 fiberglass canoes to test the latter's suitability for Gujarat condi-
tions. However, in view of the ban on using logs for canoes, GFCCA focussed
its attention on the development of fiberglass canoes. Initially plank built
canoes with fiberglass sheeting (two units), and a ferro-cement canoe were
tried which did not meet with the approval of fishermen. Thereafter in early
1980, GFCCA obtained a canoe design from an expatriate naval architect.
Based on this, experimental prototype fiberglass canoes were constructed, and
extensive trials were carried out. Fishermen, who were actively involved in
this exercise, suggested various modifications, which were incorporated.
However, the design was eventually discarded in favor of another design based
on the characteristics of the traditional canoe which, after testing by
fishermen in project area village (Sutrapada) and minor modifications, was
found acceptable.  This entire process considerably delayed the implementa-
tion of this component. Further delays were experienced on account of the
reluctance of banks to provide loans to fishermen. By December 1984 a total
of 40 canoes had been sold, of which 8 had been purchased by fishermen with
their own finance, 3 under a Government sponsored credit scheme, and 29 with
bank loans (see Table 7).
3.16    Outboard Motors.  The project provided for the import of 1,400 OBMs.
After international tendering and selection of the model/make of OBM by April
1979, delays were experienced in obtaining an import license from GOI, which



was eventually issued in July 1980. A total of 428 OBMs (300 in April 1981,
and 128 in September 1982) were imported by GFCCA, along with spare parts
(20% of the OBM value). GFCCA experienced considerable difficulties in
selling the motors, as complaints were expressed by the fishermen concerning
their performance. Some spare parts are still in stock in March 1986. It
took 13 months to sell the first batch of 300, and 14 months for the second
batch of 128. While the motors, after the initial troubles, were apparently
performing fairly well, fishermen considered their reliability inferior to
another competitive make. Consequently, they were willing to pay a premium
to acquire the latter. In view of this, the further import of OBMs under the
project was discontinued.
3.17    Marketing and Other Infrastructure for Project Area Villages.  Of
the eight project area villages identified at appraisal, one (Madhwad) was
brought under a separate GOI sponsored scheme for the development of minor
harbours. For the remaining villages, seven working sheds for marketing
purposes, approach roads for five villages, a connecting road between Mangrol
harbour and the coastal highway (17.4 km of total roads constructed, as
against the SAR provision for 33.5 km), and water supply systems for four
villages (SAR provision for five) were constructed. Finally, GFCCA availed
finance for three ;ransport trucks (SAR provision was for four trucks).
3.18    Net Making Machines.  As provided for under the project, GFCCA
acquired two fish net making machines, which were installed in their factory
in Ahmedabad in April 1981. Initially, operational problems were experienced
as the capacity of the factory's doubling machines, which are an integral
part in the net making process, was insufficient to provide the twine neces-
sary to keep the two net making machines fully operational. With the neces-
sary additional investment, the net making machines are now fully opera-
tional, though utilization is extremely low (between 30X-40Z of capacity).
3.19    Test Fishing.  The proposed test fishing surveys were aimed at
resource data collection, as well as improving fishing methods on the con-
tinental shelf off the states of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. Executed by
the GOI Exploratory Fishing Project (Bombay) between January 1979 and Septem-
ber 1981, the ope-ations ended as being largely an exploratory survey, with
data being generated which can be useful for the purpose of stock assessment.
Consequently, the implementation of the component did not meet the targets
set for it at appraisal. The principal conclusion from the survey results
was that while demersal and pelagic resources exist in the deeper waters, any
judgment on the financial feasibility of commercial exploitAtion of these
resources requires substantial additional information. Because of the high
risks involved, commercial activity in this area was not recommended; instead
it was felt that the Fisheries Department's efforts should be aimed at
improving and diversifying ongoing fishing operations, and the evaluation of
a new generatio.. of fuel efficient craft.



-12-
3.20    Marketing Study.  The All-India Marine Fish Marketing study was
carried out between March 1979 and August 1981, and an eight volume report
was produced. The study reviewed, among others, demand and supply of marine
fish, its present marketing system, the availability ind need for infrastruc-
tural facilities for marketing, and the economics of fish marketing. A total
of 84 cities and towns were included in the sample covering all the eight
coastal states of India, five non-coastal states (Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Punjab, Nagaland and Meghalaya), and the Union Territories of Goa and Delhi.
Among the principal findings were that there was inadequate supply to meet
demand, and consequently a need to exploit the deep sea fish resources; a
move towards more deep sea fishing would require a considerable investment in
working capital and supporting infrastructure; present exploitation levels
should be studied before further promotion of small MFVs; there was a need to
break up the monopoly of fish traders and to regulate fish marketing at both
producing and consuming centers; need for investment in retail fish market
infrastructure; a need to review the role and performance of cooperatives and
corporations. Finally, the setting up of a National Fisheries Board was
suggested, to regulate and oversee the entire fisheries sector in the
country.
Consultants and Contractors
3.21    Consultancy services were provided under the project for the purpose
of harbour construction, and for setting up Fisheries Terminal Divisions
(FTD) at Veraval and Mangrol. For the former, a harbour engineer and a rock
dredging specialist were contracted for a total period of just over four
months during project implementation. The harbour engineer has assisted
mainly in reviewing the design of the breakwater and the basic planning of
the harbour works. He has paid regular visits to the sites from July 1978 to
May 1984 in order to review quality of work executed and advise on difficul-
ties being faced. The rock dredging specialist has assisted mainly in
evaluating the two alternatives for dredging - contract dredging or purchase
of dredging machinery. He also visited the manufacturer of the selected
dredging equipment to ascertain the suitability of this machinery. In addi-
tion, a consulting firm from the UK was engaged for the purpose of FTD estab-
lishment. A team of three has used up a total of nearly 17 man-months
between 1983-85. Various reports have been produced, and GOG is presently
acting on the recommendations made.
3.22    For the harbour constructior. works, tenders were invited globally for
Veraval in December 1977, and locally 'or Mangrol in March 1978. For both
harbours, the same Indian contractor was awarded the contracts. As described
earlier several problems occurred during the construction period; some
measures were taken up by the Government to assist the contractor. This
included, for example, the provision of Government owned plant (such as extra
dump trucks) at favorable rates, to the contractor.



-13-
Project Cost
3.23    Table 1 shows a comparison between actual costs and estimatea made at
appraisal for the different project components. On completion the project
had cost Rs 325.5 million (US$34.9 million), which is 95Z of the SAR estimate
of Rs 341.7 million (US$38 million). Excluding the estimated cost for the
shore facilities component, which was not implemented, total actual cost in
Rupee terms represent nearly 105% of appraisal estimates.
3.24    There was considerable underachievement of the physical targets set
at appraisal for the MFV, canoe and OBM components (51%, 8% and 31% of the
targets achieved respectively), with correspondingly lower actual costs.
There was however, a cost overrun for the harbour component, with the cost of
works at Veraval being 150% of appraisal estimates, and those at Mangrol
112%. The increase is on account of both the larger scope of the work
actually carried out at these harbours, and higher price escalation as com-
pared to what was envisaged at appraisal (see Tables 4 to 6).
Project Financng and Loan/Credit Allocation
3.25    The Bank was expected to finance 47% of the total project cost with
the credit/loan of US$18 million, representing the foreign exchange com-
ponent, and about 25% of local costs. In spite of the cancellation of the
credit component for processing plants and the considerable reduction in the
financing provided against the MFV, canoe and OBN components, the eventual
total disbursements of US$16.42 million covered approximately 47% of the
total project cost. This is on account of the higher disbursement against
the dredger and harbour civil works costs than originally envisaged. The
final disbursement was made in May 1985, and the undisbursed balance of
US$1,580,493 against the loan was cancelled; the IDA credit was wholly dis-
bursed. Loan disbursements were far behind the appraisal schedule, prin-
cipally on account of delayed implementation (see Table 8).
3.26    Table 9 shows a comparison of the allocation of actual disbursements
between the different expenditure categories with the proposed allocation at
appraisal. Disbursements under categories 1 (dredging equipment and spare
parts) and 3 (civil works, materials and equipment for the harbours, and
village approach roads and water supply) exceeded the original allocations by
53% and 18% respectively, while only 29% of the original allocation was
disbursed against consultants' services and 34% against loans by NABARD.
With regard to the credit component, IDA/IBRD financing was only available to
the extent refinance was made available by NABARD on the request of the
participating banks. Consequently, while 428 OBMs were procured under the
project, finance from IDA/IBRD covered only 60 units, as the rest were pur-
chased for cash by the fishermen (see Table 7).



-14-
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.01    As envisaged at appraisal, implementation of the project was coor-
dinated by the office of the Commissioner of Fisheries (who was the Project
Coordinator), under DPF. A Project Supervision Committee, under the chair-
manship of the Secretary, DPF, was established, which met at regular three
monthly intervals. At GOI level, a Central Coordination Committee was set up
to monitor the progress of this, and later also of the Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries project (Credit 815-IN). Harbour construction by contractors was
supervised by a Superintending Engineer, with Executive, Deputy and Junior
Engineers under him, deputed from the Gujarat Maritime Board (earlier Gujarat
Ports Directorate) for the purpose of the project. The implementation of
works, particularly for Veraval, have been beset with both technical and
contractual problems, as reviewed earlier, leading to considerable delays.
In addressing the former and finding technical solutions, support was given
to the harbour engineers by CWPRS in Pune, where all the harbour related
model-testing was carried out. GFCCA was responsible for the physical
implementation of the components related to MFVs, canoes, OBMs, and the net
making machines. The credit for these components was disbursed by various
participating banks, based on banking plans prepared ty NABARD.
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association
4.02    GFCCA was established in 1956 as an apex fishery cooperative institu-
tion, registered under the Bombay State Cooperatives Act, 1925. It has a
membership of 72 primary societies and over 1,600 individual fishermen. The
objective of the Association is to develop the fishing industry of the state,
and provide better equipment and machinery to fishermen, as well as a market-
ing channel for their catch. At present, its principal activities include
procurement and marketing of fresh fish (mainly freshwater fish), development
of fresh water reservoirs, processing and export of marine products, manufac-
ture and marketing of fishing nets and twine, construction and supply of
fishing vessels, and supply of diesel to fishing vessels. The overall
management of GFCCA is vested in a board consisting of 16 Directors, with the
Commissioner of Fisheries as its Chairman. Its present organization struc-
ture is shown in Chart 1.
4.03    At the time of appraisal the need for both organizational and finan-
cial strengthening of GFCCA was recognized, and a program of rehabilitation
has already been prepared by a firm of private consultants. While no
institutional strengthening proposals for GFCCA were included under the
project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that a program of
rehabilitation would be implemented. During 1977/78, in line with the con-
sultants' report, senior staff were hired to fill the posts of Deputy General
Manager (Finance), Senior Production Manager, Bombay plant, and a Senior
Marketing Manager, and an improved accounting system was introduced. In



-15-
addition, GFCCA phased out its old ice plants at 4angrol and Veravall sold
both its carrier launch and trawler and closed its canning plant.
4.04    While the operations of GFCCA returned a net profit in 1977/78 and
1978/79, the financial situation of the Association has shown a declining
trend thereafter up to 1982/83 (see Tables 13 and 14). Heavy losses were
incurred, particularly from the operations of the quick freezing plants at
Veraval and Bombay. In addition, large investments in fixed assets did not
generate a commensurate turnover; between 1977/78 and 1983/84, the value of
fixed assets went up by 200%, while sales revenue went up by only 26% (a
decline in the fixed asset turnover ratio from nearly 10 to just about 4).
For example, the freezing plant installed in Veraval, in 1980/81, had tremen-
dous difficulties in procuring raw material (resulting in very low capacity
utilization) in competition with the private processors. The latter had well
established fish collection systems, backed up by sufficient working capital
for providing advances to fishermen. The net making plant at Ahmedabad had a
capacity utilization of between 30-40% during this period. Finally, the
cutback in the MFV componeist under the project adversely affected the
viability of CFCCA's Boat Building Yard.
4.05    In addition, GFCCA experienced serious liquidity problems during the
implementation period. These were primarily on account of banks refusing to
provide further working capital loans to GFCCA, in view of the very poor
recovery performance on the MFV loans, and the corresponding increase in its
debt-equity ratio. As the MFVs were sold to fishermen under a hire-purchase
system, with ownership vested in GFCCA (until full payment is completed), the
responsibility for recovering the loans also fell on GFCCA. At the time of
appraisal, it was expected that with the strengthening of GFCCA's marketing
operations, recovery of loans would become easier. However, GFCCA was unable
to enforce a commitment by fishermen to sell their catch to GFCCA. 1/ Fisher-
men invariably get cash advances from private fish traders, to whom they sell
their catch. Consequently, recoveries from fishermen were very poor, and as
at 12/31/85, total recoveries effected (Rs 4.32 million) represented only 12%
of the amount due (Rs 35.09 million, including interest), as shown in Table
15. In 1981/82, 5FCCA set up a loan recovery cell, with only a marginal
effect on recoveries.
4.06    The sale of MFVs was financed by loans from the participating banks
to GFCCA. Poor recoveries of these loans have resulted in a build-up of
liabilities on the CFCCA balance sheet (see Table 13), and without a cor-
responding increase in its capital base. 2/ have caused very high debt (long
1/ A Bank Supervision Mission in February 1982 roughly estimated that GFCCA
was capturing less than 1% of its entitled catch.
2/ Share capital was increased by Rs 1.2 million, with a contribution from
GOG in 1982/83, and a similar increase is expected in 1985/86.
ft



-16-
term)-equity (including reserves) ratios. As at 6/30/85, the latter was
14:1, as compared to 4:1 as at 6/30/80 (as at 6/30/83) it went to its highest
level at 59:1). 1/ As GFCCA was unable to even meet its loan interest com-
mitments to the banks, the latter were reluctant to provide further loan
finance even for the Association's working capital requirements.
4.07    In recognition of the above situation, GOG appoint)d a Committee in
1981/82 to work out a plan aimed at improving the performance of GFCCA.
Among the principal recommendations of the report, submitted in July 1982,
were: (a) strengthen GFCCA's capital base; (b) relieve GFCCA of the respon-
sibility for MFV loan recovery; (c) provide a revolving fund for off-season
advances to fishermen. Various proposals have been submitted to Government,
based on this report, and the decisions are awaited.
Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies
4.08    At appraisal, it was proposed that loans for the purchase of canoes
and OBMs by fishermen would be processed through the Fishermen's Primary
Cooperative Societies (FPCS); in addition, the latter were expected to play
an important role in fish marketing. With regard to the first, the role of
FPCS was negligible in view of the reduced scope of the component, as com-
pared to what was proposed at appraisal. In connection with the latter,
while there are 10 societies in the 8 project villages (see Table 16), only 2
(with a total of only 98 canoes) are presently linked with GFCCA for fish
marketing (at Sutrapada and Dhamlej). Consequently, marketing intervention
by GFCCA in the project fishing villages has been limited. However, to
promote FPCS in the project villages, COG introduced a scheme whereby the
services of qualified and experienced personnel to work as secretary/manager
were provided at subsidized cost, for a period of three years. In addition,
training is imparted at an institute managed by the Department of Coopera-
tion, to nominees from FPCS.
Fisheries Terminal Division
4.09    As provided for at appraisal, FTDs were set up at both ports in 1978
under the office of the Commissioner of Fisheries. During the period of
implementation the units were essentially involved in monitoring and coor-
dinating the progress of project works. A draft bill for setting up a
Fishery Terminals Authority, with all ports in the state under its purview,
has been formulated and is presently being reviewed by GOG.
4.10    With the commissioning of the Mangvol harbour, the FTD there has
assumed its originally intended role; in Veraval, this is expected to occur
1/ Under the Cooperative Societies Act, the maximum debt-equity ratio per-
miesible is 10:1.



-17-
by September 1986. The harbour facilities managed by the PTD include:
berthing and landing facilities, auction halls, gear sheds, diesel and water
supply, ice crushing, canteen, parking and lighting facilities. Headed by
the Director, Fisheries Development Division, the present and proposed staff-
ing of the two FTDs is shown in Table 10. At present some minor charges (on
water use, auction hall facilities, and vehicle entry) are being levied by
the FTD in Mangrol on some of the users. The consultants, provided for under
the project, have made recommendations in their report for imposing a broad
range of levies aimed at recovering FTD costs over a three-year period. The
report is presently being reviewed by GOG, with some aspects already having
been implemented.
Accounting and Reporting
4.11    Separate accounts were maintained for the different major categories
of project expenditures. As envisaged at appraisal, the usual Government
control and auditing procedures operated for expenditures incurred by GOI and
GOG; this includes the accounts of GFCCA, all of which up to the latest
completed financial year 1984/85 have been audited. The funds used by NABARD
for refinancing the credit components were subject to the audit requirements
set out under other IDA/Bank projects; no special arrangements were envisaged
for this project.
4.12    As required under the terms of the loan, a statistics cell was set up
in the office of the Commissioner of Fisheries, headed by a senior statis-
tician. Production surveys were conducted every fortnight at the fishing
centers, and annual reports (1978-79 to 83/84) submitted to the World Bank.
A biennial census of fisthing crafts was carried out in 1977, 1979, 1981 and
1983, and detailed reports produced. In addition, a base-line survey of fish
processing and ancillary industries was conducted in 1977, a baseline
socio-economic survey of fishermen in 1978, and a survey of the
credit-recipients under the project is presently in progress.
Compliance with Covenants
4.13    In general, the covenants agreed with GOI, have been complied with
satisfactorily. However, GOI has yet to complete its review of cost recovery
of investments in fishing harbours. Such a review has been under considera-
tion for several years.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Intended Impact
5.01    At the time of appraisal, the expected benefits from the project were
assessed principally in terms of the incremental fish production from the
project financed fishing fleet, as well as the net value added and ice
production from the proposed fish processing facilities. Based on this, the



-18-
annual incremental output of fish from project vessels was estimated at
44,600 tons (including 3,j00 tons of shrimp). In addition, annual production
of ice from the plants at Veraval and Nangrol was expected to go up by
approximately 52,000 tons, while the incremental fish processing units would
allow for 1,500 tons of shrimp and 2,000 tons of fish meal (equivalent to
10,000 tons of raw material) to be processed annually. Based on these
projected benefits, an economic rate of return (ERR) of 24Z was estimated
for the project as a whole. In addition, ERR for individual project com-
ponents were also estimated.
Assessment of Actual Project Impact
5.02    Considerable downward revisions have taken place in the number of
MFVs, canoes and OBMs actually financed urnder the project. In addition, the
component for establishing fish processing facilities was eliminated during
the implementation of the project. As the project has been implemented, it
has become essentially an infrastructure based project, with 75% of actual
total costs being for harbour improvement (as opposed to 50% at appraisal).
Only 131 of actual costs are made up of expenditures on direct production
components (MFVs, canoes, OBMs and net making plant) as opposed to 361
estimated at appraisal. Consequently, the impact of the project must be
assessed in terms of the effect of harbour construction on overall fishery
related activities in the area, in which there has been considerable expan-
sion during the project period. This would include the development of
private sector fish processing capacity, the quantity and quality of fish
landed, and most important the level of utilization of the harbour facilities
created.
5.03    Harbor Utilization.  At the time of appraisal, there was a fleet of
95 MPVs operating out of Mangrol and about 400 NFVs out of Veraval (SAR paras
3.03 and 4.04). At completion of project works, it was estimated that
Mangrol would be able to handle 110 MFVs at a time (with a capacity to accom-
modate 165 MFVs during emergencies), while Veraval would be able to handle
700 MFVs. As shown in Table 17 an estimated 180 MFV trawlers are presently
operating out of Mangrol and 750 MFV trawlers out of Veraval. In addition,
there are a few MFV gillnetters also operating out of these harbours, but
figures are not available. While the harbour at Mangrol hab been completed
in all respects, and all facilities are being utilized, some minor works
(other than completing the western breakwater) have still to be completed at
Veraval, in connection with among others, the auction halls (which are
expected to be completed by the middle of 1986), and moving the bunkering
facilities to the location of the jetties. A large number of fishermen
(around 40%) are still landing their prime quality fish on the commercial
harbour side (for the trash fish they use the new harbour), and consequently
the jetties are not being fully utilized. This is partly on account of its
proximity to their houses. However, once the auction halls are completed and
become operational, and the oil and water points are moved to the jetties,
there will be a move away from the commercial harbour. At any rate, the



-19-
number of vessels operating out of these harbours is already greater than
their original design capacity. In view of the expected further growth in
vessels number, an expansion in the capacity of both harbours is already
being discussed by the Government.
5.04    Fishing Vessels and Fish Landings.  The number of fishing veusels
has substantially increased in the project area during the period of project
implementation. The period 1977-83, for which data is available from the
census carried out under the project, shows a 25% increase in the total
number of vessels operating in the project area (see Table 17). There was
a more than 50% increase in the number of mechanized vessels (increase of
320 MFVs, and 427 motorized canoes) during the same period. However, only a
relatively small percent of this increase has been financed out of the
project. In addition to an increase in the number of fishing vessels, there
has also been an increase in the number of fishing days per vessels. With
the protected harbour facilities available, boats are fishing during part of
the monsoon season; this was not possible earlier, as boats were beached
during this period. However, while detailed data are not available, discus-
sions with fishermen indicate that catch per unit effort is beginning to show
a declining trend. This has resulted in fishermen making longer trips fur-
ther away from the port. At Nangrol, fishermen reported making trips to the
far north, close to the Indo-Pakistan border. This way, they are able to
maintain absolute catch levels.
5.05    Detailed data have been collected on fish landings in the project
area, and this is summarized in Table 18.  As can be seeng total landings
have fluctuated over the years, though there is an increasing trend. Total
fish landings in the project area have increased from 73,000 tons in 1977/78
to nearly 138,000 tons in 1984/85. In particular, there has been a marked
increase in total landings during 1983-85. However, this does not represent
the total catch of the fleet operating out of the fishing ports. This is on
account of the fact that the fleet registered in Veraval and Mangrol operates
in the entire west and southwest coast of Gujarat, and their entire catch is
not always landed at these ports.
5.06    While data on average annual catch per vessel are not available, data
on fish landings for the different types of vessels have been collected.
This is summarized below, in terms of maximum and minimum landings, for
1981/82 and 1982/83.
1981/82             1982/83
Vessel Type                      Max.      Min.      Max.      Min.
------------- tons -------
14.8 m MFV                       238       112       279        82
Canoe with OBM                    41        23        56        16
Non-Powered Canoe                 27         7        48         5



-20-
Given that the above figures are the extremes, and after discussions with
fishermen, average catch per vessel has been conservatively estimated at 135
tons (17% higher than SAR estimates) for MFV trawlers, 17 tons (6% higher
than SAR estimates) for canoes with OBM, and 12 tons (9% higher than SAR
estimates) for non-powered canoes. Based on this, annual incremental catch
from the project supported vessels only (137 MFVs, 29 Canoes, and 428 OBMs)
is estimated at around 21,000 tons (including 1,300 tons of shrimp).
However, as mentioned earlier, these figures significantly underestimate
project impact on fish production. Between appraisal (1976) and now there
has been an increase of 435 MFV trawlers using the two harbours constructed.
In addition to the other vessels (gillnetters and motorized canoes) also
operating out of these harbours. Annual incremental production from the 435
MFV trawlers is estimated at around 59,000 tons (including 4,100 tons of
shrimp).
5.07    Fish Processing Facilities.  Proposals were included in the project
for financing various types of fish processing units, none of which were
actually implemented. This was on account of the fact that the private fish
processing industry developed considerable capacity of such units, soon after
the project started, and there was no furtner demand for credit thereafter.
The proposals at appraisal, and the actual capacity created outside the
project, are summarized in the table below (details are shown in Tables 11
and 12):
Incremental Capacity
Incremental Capacity              (1976-85)
Proposed at Appraisal      Set up by Private Sector
Ice Plant                         475 tpd                        288 tpd
Ice Storage                     1,000 tons                     1,142 tons
Freezing Plant                     28 tpd                        181 tpd
Freezing Storage                  750 tons                     2,635 tons
Fishmeal Plant                     75 tpd                         60 tpd
(raw material)                (raw material)
As can be seen, the incremental capacity set up independently of the project
significantly exceeds the appraisal proposals, with the exception of the ice
and fishmeal plants. It would be fair to assume that much of this investment
would not have taken place without the investment in the harbours, which was
largely responsible for the significant increase in fishing vessels.
Fishermen's Income from Vessels
5.09    Operating income and cash flow statements have been prepared for the
investments in vessels financed under the project (14,8 m MFVs, canoes with



-21-
OBM, and OBM for an existing non-mechanized canoe). These are given in
Tables 21 to 23. Prices used in the analysis are the average of prices
obtained by fishermen in the last three years (1982/83-1984/85). As men-
tioned earlier, the average annual catch of a MFV is estimated at 135 tons,
while that of a canoe with OBM at 17 tons (12 tons for canoe without OBM).
The results are summarized below:
14.8 m MFV       Canoes with OBM          OBM only
Item                     SAR    Present      SAR    Present       SAR    Present
Net Operating Income      84       158        9        53           4       12
Net Cash rlow             91        91        3        37           3       10
FRR                      53%        40%      30%       75%        55X      121%
As can be seen the net income and cash flow generated are much higher than
those estimated at appraisal. This is on account of both a higher actual
catch per vessel than what was estimated at appraisal, as well as significant
increase in fish prices (Table 19).  It is also clear that MFV owners should
be able to repay their loans from the income generated.
Re-estimated Economic Rates of Return
5.09    An economic re-evaluation has been undertaken of the two harbours, as
well as of the investments in the different types of fishing vessels. The
analysis has been carried out in constant 1985/86 average prices, with past
expenditures restated in 1985/86 price terms by using the wholesale price
index (WPI). Phased investment costs, in financial terms, for the two har-
bours are shown in Tables 2 and 3. After deducting estimated taxes, the
costs restated in 1985/86 prices have been converted to economic values by
using the standard conversion factor (SCP) of 0.80.
5.10    For the purposes of re-estimating the ERRs of the two harbours, the
benefits from MFVs only have been included. These have been estimated from
the project financed MFVs (105 in Veraval and 32 at Mangrol); in addition, it
is assumed the 50% of the increase in non-project financed vessels is the
result of the project investment in the harbours (106 MFVs included for
Veraval, and 37 for Mangrol). It is believed that the latter assumption is
conservative, as prior to the project investment the harbour capacity was
already fully utilized, and a significant increase in vessels would not have
been possible. It has been aE med that local financial prices for shrimp
and higher category fish (Cl ana C2) reflect their economic value; lower
category (C3 and C4) fish have been treated as non-traded goods. The catch
for years prior to 1985/86 has been valued at the then prevailing prices,
restated in constant 1985/86 terms, by using the World Bank published
manufacturing unit value index for the former, and the WPI for the latter to
which the SCF of 0.80 was applied.



-22-
5.11    All investment costs related to the harbours and the cost of the
incremental MFVs have been included in the analysis; in addition, a provision
has been made for the replacement cost of MFV engines after a period of ten
years. Based on a period of analysis of 20 years, the ERR for the Veraval
harbour has been re-estimated at 13% (appraisal estimate - 18%), and Mangrol
at 20% (appraisal estimate - 16%). Details of the analysis are shown in
Tables 24 and 25 respectively. In reviewing these figures, it is necessary
to recognize that while there was a 50% cost overrun for Veraval, it was only
12% for Mangrol. In addition, the actual average catch per vessel as
observed over the last few years was between 10-20% higher than that
estimated at appraisal. However, in many cases this has required longer
trips and consequently higher operating costs for the MFVs. Finally, the
prices of marine fish have shown an increasing trend, with weighted average
prices considerably higher than what they were at the time of appraisal.
5.12    The re-estimated ERRs for the MFVs (53%, as compared to SAR estimate
of 48%), canoes (99%, SAR estimate was 31%), and the OBMs (over 60% as
estimated in SAR), show that these investments are economically beneficial,
as envisaged at appraisal. Finally, an ERR for the project as a whole has
also been estimated by including the costs and benefits from the financing of
428 OBMs and 29 canoes, and the investment costs for the permanent sheds,
roads and the trucks. The costs of water supply for the villages, the net
making machines for GFCCA, and the technical assistance costs related to
exploratory fishing, the marketing study, and for the fisheries terminal
division have been excluded from the analysis (as in SAR). Based on the cost
and benefit profiles shown on Table 26, an ERR of 16% has been re-estimated.
This compares with the SAR estimate of 24%.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall Performance
6.01    Despite delays in implementation, IDA/Bank assistance under the
project has resulted in the development of essential infrastructure to sup-
port the marine fisheries sub-sector at a time when the need for such
facilities was being keenly felt. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it
is obvious that the scope of the project, as eventually designed at
appraisal, was too ambitious. It was optimistic to expect that GFCCA, with
identified organizational and financial weaknesses, would be able to substan-
tially increase its level of activities, and implement the various components
for which it had complete or partial responsibility (MFVs, canoes, OBMs, net
making plants, and fish marketing), on the scale envisaged, over a four to
five year period. Appraisal expectations that GFCCA would increase its share
in fish marketing also did not materialise, leading to loan recovery
problems. The traditional fishermen's component, while no doubt important,
did not receive the attention it merited in a project dominated by essential
infrastructure development. Consequently, the intended impact through the



-23-
improvement of fish marketing in the project villages did not materialise.
Finally, while the complexities of constructing the marine works proposed
were recognised at appraisal, not enough time was provided in the implementa-
tion schedule for additional survey work needed. In view of the significant
changes made in the design and scope of work (particularly at Veraval), and
the considerable survey and testing work that had to be undertaken during
implementation, it is obvious that the appraisal of the project was prema-
ture. Given the overall implementation experience of the project, the
approach adopted by the Bank towards a multi-component, broad based
"integrated" project has not been proven to be justified.
Supervision
6.02    A total of 11 supervision missions were fielded by the Bank between
June 1977 and October 1983. The composition of the missions was technically
strong, and there was good continuity of staff between missions. The latter
was particularly important, given the complexities and technical difficulties
experienced during the implementation of the project. It resulted in con-
structive dialogue and rapport between Bank staff and those of the implement-
ing agencies. As a result of suggestions made by the Bank during supervi-
sion, additional survey and model testing work was undertaken particularly
with regard to the harbour developments proposed for Veraval. In addition
the missions mode concerted efforts by discussions with the various agencies,
as well as by making specific recommendations, to expedite the pace of
project implementation. The frequency of supervision missions was adequate.
However, given that the closing date of the project was extended by a year,
and that there were various problems being faced, there should have been
further supervision of the project beyond October 1983.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01    In assessing the overall contribution of the project, and for the
purpose of drawing conclusions from the experience gained during implementa-
tion, the project must be viewed in two parts. Insofar as the investment in
fishing harbours and complementary shore facilities and services is con-
cerned, the project has no doubt made a positive impact, and resulted in a
significant development of different facets of marine fisheries activities in
the project area. To a large extent, the near doubling of the MFV trawler
fleet, as has happened between 1976-1986, is the result of stimulation
provided by the investment in the harbours. In addition to increasing marine
fish production, the investment has also stimulated overall economic activity
within the project's area of influence, and led to significant increases in
the incomes of local fishermen.
7.02    However, the achievement of project targets for the other direct
production components was poor. The principal drawback was the inability of
the existing institutions to handle the components which were large in rela-
tion to their implementation capability, as well as to solve the problems



-24-
which emerged. The implementation of the MFV component faced serious dif-
ficulties, with significant implications on the financial viability of GFCCA.
At the same time however, an achievement of the project has been the success
in designing a fiberglass canoe, which has now become popular with tradi-
tional fishermen.
7.03    Various lessons can be learned from the implementation experience of
this project. The principal ones are:
a) It is desirable to have adequate investigation and design for major
works completed prior to loan negotiations. This is particularly
important where complex civil works such as breakwaters are involved.
Where this is not possible, the implementation schedule needs to
provide adequate time for such pre-construction investigational
activities.
b) When significant design changes take place after appraisal, it is
necessary to ensure that provision of critically important equipment
(in this case a floating crane) required for successful completion of
*orks is ensured either by being available with the contractor, or
provision made for its early acquisition.
c) The physical scale of components should be designed in a manner which
is not too ambitious in terms of the implementation capability of the
directly involved institutions.
d) Particular attention should be paid to the design of credit recovery
from beneficiaries when this is through an institution which does not
control a large part of the market output and when the lending banks
do not have sufficient field ofices and staff for loan recovery. GOI
has suggested that credit should be routed through the State
Fisheries Directorate where loan recoveries have been more success-
ful.
e) Due consideration should be given to fishermen's choice in the
procurement of equipment (in this case OBMs), as their efficient use
requires acceptability of the make/model.
f) It is desirable to involve beneficiaries in designing the equipment
which they are expected to use (as has happened in the case of the
fiberglass canoes).
g) The local implementing agencies acknowledge the active support they
received from WB Supervision missions. This points to the
desirability of having continuity of a technically strong Bank super-
vision team, as has occurred in this proiect.



INDIA
(Loan 1394- INCreslit 695-IN)
Comoarison of Aouralsal and Actual osts
AnarniLsal Eat1m   a                       Ar%ua6       __ _a_      Actu I           4 *qt   l.U!*5
Itsv                      Units   Rs'aoo -t/  &SS*Q0  I/   UfnIt s    Rs'U          usso0 aS QF/      Mnw R'flUs   USs
Hiarbour Improvement
Manlgrot                                       32.370       3.596                  36.353 2t    3.765                     112    111!,
Veraval                                       138508       15 ,3                  208,0VQ 2'   21i.iA                     150    I38
*s!lb-Tatal                       170.878      18.986                 244.353       24.933                    143    131
stvhe facilities
Mangrol                                         5.741         63t
ve aval )513                                                2848                      2g4 .1-                               I       I 1
Sub-oitaJ                          31.376       3.466                     294           36                      t       I
M4tiantised fSslling Vesselis           210      b6i.988      7.432          137     33.977        4.212             Sl      SI 5    5
'saoittonal Fishermen Compooent
reetoes. Sna. nets & e.;uipment       350      11.674       1.29t          29       1.843          165             8       16      *3
OSMa                                1.400      12.132       1.348         428       4.132          504             31      34      1?
Permanent Sheds                        6          583          65          7          633           73            88      109    112
Roaas                               33.5 km    3.982          442       17.4 kcm    2.531          293            52       64      66
Water Supply                        5 units     t,687         410       4 units    2.905           337            8V       79      H11
Trucks                                 4          use        .7.           3          382           48             75      55       2
Sub-Total                          32.754       3.639                  12.426        1.420                     38      39
ttet Making Machines                     2        1.802         200          2        2.035          256            IUO      113    129
fechtulcal Asaista,ce                            37.976       4.220                  32,411        4,2UI                     a5      9!)
J.QEAL                            341.f74      37.963                 325,496       34.88fl                    95      92
I/  Price contio9encies have been distrihuted among the component costs on an approxfmate basis. In ttce absetce of a detaiilld
annually phased project cost table in the SAP.
.I  See tables 2  3 tor details; the cost tor Veraval includes RslS million estimated for completing worhs.
3,  7he tot lo"tns rates at excthsge (Rs pee US$) have been used:  1978/79 - RsAS.2t;  1979/80   14613.08;  1980/8t - Pt7.8J;.
1901/82 - RsS.93;  1982/83 - Rs9.63;  1983/84 - RstO.31;  1984/85 - Rs11.89$  1986/86 - Ps12.20.
_/  Cost of a study undeltaken by consultants far the GFCCA.                                                                               I



JNOIA
GUJARAT-flSHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Actual Expenditures on Harbour Imurovement and Shore Facilities - Veraval I Harbour
(Rs '000)
t978/79   1979/80   1980/81    1981/82   1982/83   t883/84    1984/85   198518 6          Total
Bteakwater                               352:6    1,722.5   4.399.8   4,024.2    6,366.3   8,352.9   9,185.1    2,355.6   36.559.0
Landing Quay                               -         111.6        -     3,210.6    1,440.B       198.5   1,318.3        590.1    6,877.9
Berthing Jetty                                   -          -                -        523.9   1.7901   1,595.8          4J3.2    4.343.0
Oredging of Harbour                    2,174.7    5,292.3   5.957.1   1,005.6   10.685.3   3,366.3   2,609.4            147.8   31,238.5
Cotferdam                                  -           -        204.0       -         510.0        -          -         306.0    1,u20.0
Repair facilities - Civil Works            -           -          -         -           -        432.1   2,798.8        428.3    3,eb9.2
- Crane for Boats      -           -      3,295.9        -           -          -         -           -       3,z96.9    C.
foebt Overbridge                           -           -                                -                   123.3        83.8       207.1
Construction Plant                     1.909.5         -          -         -       3.206.1        -          -           -        5.1156
Dredging - Purchase of Equipment           9.9         3.7  21.833.3   3,986.5          -          -          -                 25.833.4.
- Operating Cost                 -           -          0.8     516.0    2,223.7   3.195.3   4,435.5    2.410.1   12.781.4
Ruads and Pavements                      191.1        29.1       13.9       10 '      182.5      172.2   3,473.5    1.918,8    5.991.d
Auctiotn Halls                           534.7        97.7        -                              339.8   3,391.5    1,137.7    5.501.4
Management Building                      278.6        35.8        3.6       26 ...      7.9        6.7        -           -         354.2
Canteen Building                         143.1         0.9        -         -           -          3.6        -           -         147.6
Workshop                                   -         121.7        -          -          -         87.5      130.7        16.7       356.6
Gear Shed                                  -          21.5        0.9     218.0       121.3       36.2      531.6         -        929.5
Otfice Building                            --                     -         -           -          -        109.1       272.4       381.5
Fenccing                                             104.3      139.0       0.4         _        160.7      806.2       153.9    1,364.5
Navigational Aids                          -           3.9        -          -                    87.1       18.0         3.9       112.9
Water Ss,pply                              -         519.4      153.7        7.6    5.018.5       77.3   4.012.7        107.8    9.897.0
Electrification                            -           -          -         -           -          -      i,749.2       865.4    2,614.6
Drainage                                   -           -         12.1      30.9         -          -        700.0         -         743.0
wC EstablisStment                         47.5        81.2      52.5       29.1        30.3       82.3       97.1         4.7      424.7
Contingencies & Miscellaneous            515.1       296.5     600.3      375.9       553.3   1,564.6       966.5       312.1    5.184.3
Cyclone Damage                             -           -          -       353.7    3.190.9   1,168.1          -           -      4.712.7
Difterential Cost on Materials           190.4         -          -         _         245.5   3.788.9   5,912.7    1.224.0   11.961,5
Price Escalation                           -2_4_2              734.5   1.661A.9   4.604.1   1.960.5   1,296.    _  20.4i
Sub-Total                       6,947.2    8,656.3  37,401.4  15,451.7   38,910.4  26,870.7  45,261.1   "4.Z00.7  SUZ.699.5
Estimated Cost for Comtpletion                                                                                                  1'.. JIO.!,
NU01%e:  Office of the Project Superintending Engineer.



1"Dli
GUJART EJ ftflJ"e XeRsPsJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Actual Expenditures on Harbour lasurovenmost and Shore F cii1ties - Manq     Hriour
(Rs'000)
1978v72   l9t9SB0    980181  1981}82    9va/ma   Hg83784    184/d5   t985186    lot1alI
Beeakwetegs               t,549.1    3,181.7   2,155.4   1.422.6                       536.8   S84.5   2.922.0           336.3   12.69 .I
H~,s1n Excavation                        345.1       267.8      427.2      736.6    4.4t1.0       459.8        -       1.005.6    7.653.t
Qeays & Jett1es                            -         292.8        -          -         494.8      592.9        -         345.9    1.7f 64
%hore Works                                -         566.9      263.7      527.4       572.0   1.831.2   3.776.2         199.7    7,738 1
Water Supply                               9.6          -       506.9      282.1        23.8       59.1       14.3         -         895. 
Electrification                            -           -          -           .5        17.5       65.9      492.0         -         seu.'
vigatial Ai#ds                               t-                                        4.7        -          3.3        14.0        32.0
Cycvlone Oamages                           -           -                     5.1        77.7       46.4       34.5         -         163.1
Miscellaneous Expenses                    24.2         -          -          --                     -                      -          24.2
W.C. Contingencies                        24.9        22.7       66.1        6.1       103.6      620.7       38.9         -         983.0
iUfferential on Cost of Materials    (223.5)          56.3      191.3    (300.3)       239.4      891.5      (22.9)      262.9    1.294.7
Price Escalation                           -          85.2      249.1        Z95.    .LAh06t.3   _J         _ _4                  2_fi _1I4
Total Cost                       1,730.0    4,483.4   3.8S9.7   3.,80.7    7.552 6   f.30.3.4   7.26n.3    2.qNl.4   36.352.5
soufcet Office of tte Project Superi.itenaing Engineer.
I!



- 28 -
TaLe 4
INDIA
UJARAT FISIERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 69S-IN)
Coarlson of Aoraised and Actual lwrovements
Veraval
Item                                               Actual
Extension of Existing Breakwater                334 .             334 .
Construction of Nw Breakwater                   500.              500 D
Reclaation of Beach Area                        7.5 ha           17.5 ha
Construction of Landing & Bunkering Quays       535 .           1.060 a
Construtlion of Open Brthing Jetties          1,120 a           1,120 
Deeping of Fishing Harbour Area             100,000 .3        135.000 .3
Basin Excavation (Land)                        -               M99,30 o3
Excavation of a 45 u wide Entrance Channel  Approx. I km      Appx. 1 km
Construction of Slipway with Cradle             i ft.       Replaced by Crae
Construction of New Paved Roads                  Y                1.9 ka
Construction of Ne Roads Without
Paving                                         1                2.6 km
Asphalt Paving of Existing Roads                  /               2.3 km
Auction  ltl - Number                           I no.               3 Ns.
- Area                           8,250 92           7,500 .2
Trash-Fish Platform                                             2,500 .2
Offices                                          ,                532 .2
Conteen ad Shops                                 y                355. 2
Bear SheWs                                   2.250 m2           1,494  2Z
Work Shops                                    1,250 .2            450 .2
Auction Hall Office                               y               240 .
Surfaced Areas:
Net Drying Area                                 /             4,935 2
Parking Area                                    /             6,580 .2
Fecing                                            1/            2.575. 
Navigation Aid                                   1/                 2 Nos
Water Supply                                  2.000 tons/day    2,270 tons/day
Drnage                                       Adequate             Adequate
Electricity Supply                           40 w                  40 ew
Site for Fuel Supply                         Adequate             Adequate
a/ Physical targets not specified in SAR.



- 29 -
TabLe 5
[14DM
GUJART FISIIERIES PRECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-lM)
Coarison of  oppratsd and-  ual ISrovMeL& ts
Ibnqrol 
item                            Tret               Actual
Extension of Breakwater                        250 a              293 u
Protection Arm                                 19g                 185 a
roe                                                                 7n o
Resin Excavation                                               66000. 3
Quays                                          U5                  3943
Formtin of Protected Beah for Canoes             y
Fomation of Lan Area for Fishing
Related Activities                           2 ha                 v
Construction of Roads                            J                 5.7 
Contruction of Paved Aras                                       11,846 .2
Auction hall                                 1,950 2             1.950 .2
Offices                                          y          '     398 2
Canteen                                           1               296 2
Bear Shed                                      200 .2             400 2
Water Supply                                245 tons/day            V
Electric Supply                              Adeqte              Adequate
Drainage                                     Adeqate             Adequate
Fish Drying Area                                 y                  y
Workshop                                       240 2             Oeleted
Site for Fuel                                Adequate            Adequate
/ Physical targets not specified In SAR.
/ Extent of wark carried out not known.



- 30 -
TR 'ir Tr  r-o  -A
H  I x    1 q       (  I1I
LLX X ,_
Ao"  __wwm       -IL    -g    -W    _-W-_
Ism
LANKf



- 31 -
Table 6
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/credit 695-IN)
Physical Parameters of Principal Works
Phys1cal          Contract          Revised            Status
C-im-ont-  S       v                                 Duant  ity  uecemoer 1985
Veraval
Western Breakwater
stones 1-200 kg       201,000 tons      375,000 tons         448,365 tons
Armor Rocks
0.2-2.6 T            88,000 tons      120,900 tons         202,080 tons
Dolosse 5 T             3,765             3,414                5,210
12 T             1,240             3,964               4,222
Eastern Breakwater
Stones 1-200 kg
from quarry:          17,200 tons       91,930 tons         154,109 tons
from excavation:      69,400 tons       20,758 tons
Armor Rocks
0.2-2.5 T            49,100 tons       51,350 tons          81,980 tons
Dolosse 5 T               940 Nos         1,700 Nos            2,506 Nos
12 T                -              1,340 Nos             608 Nos
Concrete Grouting           850 m3          2,445 m3             Deleted
Capping Slab & Crown
Wall                        -                -                 8,136 m3
(WBW + EBW)
Excavation (land)       708,000 m3        900,000 m3           899,730 m3
Dredging Rock            25,000 m3         25,000 m3            29,700 m'
Soft           110,000 m3        110,000 m3           91,100 m3
Berthing Jetties          8,300 m3          8,619 m3             8,619 m3
Quay Walls               15,440 m3         24,502 m3            23,616 m3
Source: Office of Projects Superintending Engineer.



- 32 -
Table 6
Page 2
Physical Parameters of Principal Works
Physical             Contract          Revised              Status
Components            uuantitt t                         December 1985
Mangrol
Western Breakwater
Stones 1-200 kg          107.250 tons      107,250 tons         113,593 tons
Armor Rocks
0.5-2.5 T               66,200 tons       62,000 tons          46,668 tons
Dolosse 2 T                1,659 Nos         1,600 Nos             1,600 Nos
5 T                1.400 Nos         1,575 Nos            1,575 Nos
12 T                  816 Nos           816 Nos              753 Nos
Rock Excavation
(Basin and Land)           54,000 m3         55,175 m3            85,010 m3
Block Work for
Coffer-Dam                 1,310 m3          1,310 m3             1,310 m3
Quays                          360m              360 m                 394 m
Eastern Breakwater
Stones 1-200 kg           55,760 tons       35,000 tons          40,800 tons
Armor Rocks
0.5-2.5 T               28,000 tons       27,440 tons          12,238 tons
Dolosse 2 T                1,023 Nos           100 Nos               109 Nos
S T                                    450 Nos              450 Nos
Capping Slab &
Crown Wall                                     -                5,464 m3



- 33 -
T Table 7
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-'N/Credit 695-IN)
Financinq of Credit Components
Item           PrcJect    Total        Bank Loans       NABARO Refinance
Units     tost       No.    Rs'OO       No.    Rs'OOO
MFVs                     137      33,977    137      27,967     137      22,325
OBMs                     428       4,132     60 1/      185      60         148
Canoes with OBMs          29       1,843     29       1,050      20 2/      755
Net Making Machines        2       2,035      2       1,628       2       1,221
Trucks                     3         382      3         260       3         208
1/  Only a small percentage (14%) of the OSMs procured under the project
were purchased by fishermen on credit.
2/ Of the 29 canoes with OBMs for which loans were given by the hanks,
refinance from NABARD was only sought for 20.



-34-                                  TabLe 8
INDIA
GUJARAT FISMERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
SChedule of DiSbursementS (Cumulative) 1/
IERD                                                 Actual Disbursement as
Fiscal Year         ADDraisal          ActUal             Percent of Appraisa1
and QuarteQ           Estimate      Disbursement                Estimates
.....(US$ Million).....
1978 (1)                           -                                   -
(2)                          -        _
(3)                 -
(4)                 2                 -                          _
1979 (1)                  5             .   _
(2)               1.1                                            -
(3)               1.8                 S                         28
(4)               3.0               1.1                         37
1980 (1)                4.3               1.5                         35
(2).              5.5               1.6                         29
(3)               6.8              .3.0                         44
(4)               8.3               3.6                         43
1981 (1)                9.8               4.0                         41
(2)              11.4               6.7                         59
(3)              13.0               7.S                         S8
(4)              14.0              10.1                         72
1982 (1)               15.0             10.4                          69
(2)              16.0              11.2                         70
(3)              17.1              11.3                         66
(4)              17.4              12.0                         69
1983 (1)               17.7             12.3                         69
(2)              18.0              12.3                         68
(3)              18.0              13.2                         73
(4)              18.0              13.9                         77
1984 (1)               18.0             13.9                         77
(2)              18.0              13.9                         77
(3)              18.0              13.9                         77
(4)              18.0              13.9                         77
1985 (1)               18.0             15.4                          86
(2)              18.0              15.8                         88
(3)              18.0              16.1                         89
(4)              18.0              16.4  /                      91
Date of last disbUrsements May 10, 1985.
1/ Together for both the IDA Credit (US$4 million) and the WV  Loan
(US$14.0 million).
2/ The undisbursed balance of US$1.S8 million from the Loan was cancelled;
tao IDA Credit was disbursed n full.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Allocation of CrettlLoann Procees
Aonr&a4l-  _ Actual Dibussement                                   Actual  it
Allocation        ID.                   Lo.j|t  l.Jdaf%  oLtal     of Appraisal
.......................            ......................
(I)  Dredging equipmetnt and spare parts              1,400                I.t         2,145.6         2,147.3            153 l      
(2)  Clvil woeks. mate-als and equipment
for Parts Al)) and A(3) of the project          7.900            2.043.4          7.2S3.6         9,297.0            118 JJ
13)  Consultants' services                             800               42.5            132.9           17S.4             29
(4)  Cost of marketing study and test fishing
operat I i.ns                                   3.400            1,260.9          1.92t.7         3.188,6             94
(S) Loans by AROC (now NASARO) as described
under Schedule 3 ot the OCA                     4.i00           e_ i .SI..59.7                    1.61t.2             34
Tutus                                          18.000            4.000.0         12.489.5        16.419.5             91
Amount Casicel Ieti                                                 -             I 580.5         I -Sao_1 ,
Original Credit/Loan Amount                                      4000fi-0        14iS00.D        la-DJ.U
I1, No *eallocation of loasn proceeds was carried out.
I!
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 36 -
TabLe 10
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1194-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Proposed and Present Staffing of FTOs
Veraval 1/                 Mangrol 1/
Staff Posts              Total Posts   Fresent        Total Posts   Present
Director 2/                   1            1                            -
Market Superintendent g/      1            -- 
Dep. Mkt. Superindent         2            1                1           1
Chief Accountant              1            1                1           1
Registrar                     1            -                -           -
Berthing Master               3            1                1           1
Stenographer                  1            -                -           -
Auctioneer                    7            1                2           1
Cleaning Foremen              3            1                1           1
Storemen                      1            1                1           1
Security Staff                6            3                5           3
Cleaning Staff                6            3                3           3
Clerks                        9            6                7           6
Driver                        2            -                1           -
Peon                          2            -                1           -
Total               -49
t/ While the harbour at Mangrol has already been commissioned, Veraval is
expected to be officially commlssioned later this year.
2/ Responsible for both FTOs.



IERIA
GUJARAT FlSHERtES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-ZN/Credit 695-IN)
Quick freezina and Ice Makin Facilities to PrgAect Area
Year            Ice Making              Lfe Sitoage           Freeziona Plant            Frozen St9t4e
Uni1t   CajiaC Ity       UjLti  Cuacltt         Uni t    Capac,t1         Unit   jCji    I tv
(No.)  (t/day)           (No.)  (tons)          (No.)    lt/day)          (No.1     (tons)
1976              19         186           9         780            3        42.0           3           750                       W
1977              24        263           12       1.047            7        94.5           7         1.500                       "
1978              26        304           16       1,862            9       110.0           9         1.785
1979              30        389            la      1.512           tO       118.0          tO         1.965
1980              32        434            19      1.762           it       134.0          12         2.735
1981              34        464           21       1.922           14       166.5       .  34         3.135
1982              35        4t4           21       1.922           IS       172.5          IS        3.285
1983              35        474           21       1.922           15       172.5          15         3.285
1984              35        474           21      1t922            Is       172.5          is        3.385
1985              35        474           21       1.922           16       223.0          16         3.385
Sources Office of Project Coordinator.
.,IE.~1



-38-
Table 12
INOIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Present Processing Units at Principal Ports
Item                  Veraval             Man.rol            Porbunder
No.   Caacit      LO.  Capacity    No.   CapacitY
Ice Plant                 22      329 tpd      7    81 tpd      22      272 tpd
Ice Cold Storage          16    1,640 tons    3   170 tons    10        350 tons
Freezing Plant            16      223 tpd      -    -            3       25 tpd
Freezing Storage          16    3,385 tons    -    -             3   1,150 tons
Canning Plant              1         6tpd      -    -            -       -
Fishmeal Plant             1        50 tpd l/  1    60 tpd SJ
Fish Pulveriser           12       102 tpd     3    25 tpd       2       40 tpd
]/ Raw material.
Source: Office of Project Coordinator.



GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 60S-tN)
GFCCA - CoMnarative Balance Shoots
(Rs'000)
As at the Year End 30 JunO    __                    _ _
1985        1984        1983        1982        1961        1980        1979        3978
Fined Assets                           1l.6d7      11.651      12.172      12.6e8      10.116       6.381       S.683       3.841
Pre-Operation a Project E.p.              149         360         156         156       2.6SS       2.134          a81          is
lIvestments                                25          25          24          12          12           12          12         ItI
Current Assets:
"hi- Purchase Debts (MeVa)  .    44.957         41,284      38.642       36.637      31.604      18.945            -
Others                             .69L5         t6.366      12.L82 _L6,344,         15.470      t7.643      16.073    _15.ub4
Total Assets          _t3L7Q3Q.M.2"  h         63.7SLS          _65.037   5LIfi4iQ     _       -IIS          LIg AA 18 3 
Paid Up Share Capital                  5,332        '.329       5.340       4.137       3.974       3.944       3.86t       3.97g
fet @,ves                              6.026        5.638       4.907       4.904       4.846       4.844       4.504       4.039
.e os Accumulated Losses               sfl.7151    9.JlJJ1    t9..255J   (4AI2a1        1.J.051     t219) .   '   IS?      6.2
fifti_NIM11             4.642      )_a 1,5        992        4.21        7.?69      8U.50        8.542    _Q,6-45
Secured Loans%
Gover"ment Loans                    38,708      317712       17.068      15.925      12.028       7,297       3.402       3,358
ftom Bankst Term Loasu               3.019       4.602        4.891       5.897       5.173       3.385       1,476            -
worMUin  Capital        l.S89       1.976       2.677       3.135        2.267       2.721       1.005
Project MFV RelSted Loans           40.141      36.561      33.782       31.373      26.168      16.774            -
Other Loans                                                  --         _3_             636     9      7     7  97
Sub-Tutal             _3,457      60-851    -58.438       56.330      48.272      30.313        6 BtiO      4-lb!f
Cur rent LIahilities                   5602       S.84g    .4-34f           5.225      1,A1           z 6.293  L6.747      f.i.gfi
_TQJIl CASILtal 8 LbiOiaLLtleA    7.31Q]      f8A3       5AL.776    _8583        _S9_10    _45.m 1fl       22.149      18,93
Soutce: Aridited AcCounts of GFCCA
lb
I,



GUJARAT FIS    ES PROJECt
(Loan 1394-14/Credit 695-IN)
GFCCA - Coomarative Profit & Lose Accounts
For the Year Endcin 30 Jusjj
lsR5     190i4     1903      19B2      l81      1980     li92      1978
....... ..........................    ....................... (Rs'OOO0) ......... ........ ..........
Sales Revenue                     55.421   47.165   40.794    23.253   27,968   36.841   40,499   37.465
Less Cost of Sales                44,225   38.754   35,122    17,365   22.787   30.460   33,351   30.773                        1
Gross Profit                      11.196    9,411    5.672       5.888    5.181    6.381    7.148    6.692                      o
Psoduction/rt-ading Expenses       6.121    5.523    6.916       6.693    5.059    6.211    6.250    5.409
Sellitns Expenses                    654      622       803        409      270       346       88        99
Administration Expenses            1.695    1.524    1.527       2.429    1,165    1.8l8    1.534    1.028
Total Ooeratina Exoenses           8.470    7.669    9.246      9.531    6.494    8,511    7.872    6.536
Operatt.9 Pcutit/(Loas)            2.726       742   (3.514)   (3.643)  (1.313)  (2.130)    (724)        156
Otler Income                       1.360    1,320    1,353       1,892    1.627    2.069    1,150        706
Profit/(Loss) nefore Interest    4.086    2.062   (2.221)   (1.751)         314       (61)     426       862
Interest on Loans                  1,664    1.865    2.136      2.022    1 059        790      333       ?96
Profit/(Loss) after Interest I/  2.422         197   (4.357)   (3.773)    (744)    (851)        93       566
1I Appropriations and prior year adjustaents *ave not been shown lere.
S_urce  GFCCA.
I!
.                                                                                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



LDtA
GUJARAT FISIERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-ZN)
GFCCA - MFV Loans and Recovet L   pQsitioi as at 31 Decegbej  1985
(Rs'000)
Nag_ of Bank                No.  ft aoats        Loan         PC incitla       Interest        Total       Recoverles        Aerduett
Advanced            "U           P---t       ~~~~~Effected    Overdue
Bank of Baroda                   45              8.196          5.278            7.846        13.124          3.506          11.618
Batk of  Itndia                  45              9.077           5.08           6.730        11.811          1.460          10.351             1
Dena Bank                        20              4,119           2.451           2.954         5,405            551           4.854            F-'
lInion Bank                      19              4.585           1.911           2.035         3.946            716           3.230             1
Unites Bank of Jndia              3                 75t            338             46            87                             720
mini.                       132 11          26.728         15.059          20.034        35.093          4.320           30.773
i4biffcf:  G FCCA.
J/  Of the 137 MFVs finanred under the project, loans for five were given directly to the fishermen by the Sank of India.
without going through GFCCA.
cr
en



- 42 -
Table 16
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
fPCS in Project Villages
Village & FPCS               Membership            Share Cap1tal
and
Other Funds
langrol Sara
Mangrol Bara Matsypdyog            233                     9.35
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
Chorwad
(i)  Chorwad Shavani Lodhi              239                    12.37
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
(ii) Chorwad Sagar Utpadak               123                    6.55
Sahakari Mandli Ltd,
Hirakot
Sharat Matsyodyog                   70                    10.94
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
Sutrapada
Sagar Matsyodyog                   434                    73.45
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
Dhamlej
(1)  Chamlej Matsyodyog                  380                  177.86
Sahakari Mandli
(ii) Karimi Matsyodyog                   137                   11.20
Sahakari Mandli
Muldwaraka
Muldwaraka Macchimar                68                     4.40
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
Madhwad
Macchimar Vividh-Karys kari        316                    20.27
Sahakari Mandli Ltd
Kotda
Kotda Matsyodyog Sahakarl          234                     5.40
Mandli Ltd



- 43 -
Table 17
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Fishing Vessels In the Project Harbours
C e n s u s    F    a u r e s  1/
1977      l979                 198li3     1986 2X
Veraval                                             19K
.14.8m MFV Trawlers           413        542       581        626        750
14.8m MfV Gillnetters         84         69         74        82        n.a.
Motorised Canoes              162       132        223       277        n.a.
Non-Powered Craft             53         40         23        11        n.a.
Total                 712        783       901        996       nMa.
Manarol
14.8m MFV Trawlers            98        139       166        168        180
14.8m MFV Gillnetters          4          -          7        13        n.a.
Motorised Canoes               12        35         85       120        n.a.
Non-Powered Craft             60         55         29         8        n.a.
Total                 174       229        287        309       n.a.
Project Area Villages V
14.8m MFV Trawlers            47         99        89         51        n.a.
14.8m MFV G6ilnetters         39         28        48         65       n.a.
Motorised Canoes             566        602        718       770        n.a.
Non-Powered Craft            248        174        113        53        n.a.
Total                 900       903        968        939       n.a.
TOTAL                        1,786      1,915     2,156      2,244        n.a.
1/ Based on census taken before commencement of season.
j/ Estimated by local staff at time of visitAto project area.
3/  Villages of Mangrol 8ara, Chorwad, Hirakot, Sutrapada, Ohamlej,
Muldwarka, Madhwad and Kotda.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-I#4Credit 695-14)
Estimated Marine Fish tandinas In Protect Area tCentre Wise)
Fishina Landina           1977-7Q       t9li-711       t979-B9      1980-8t      ItkA98-22       IM82I02     .i2O iL4    .L 9hA-A
Centre
.......................................... (     o l ).........................................................(tes ............... ..
Veraval                      56.419       79.978          75.326        79.112        91.609         58.036       64.823    88.362
Mangrol                       6.572        5.829          11.033         7.852         9.081         11.160       21.762    21.094            1
Mangrol - Sara                  838           539            505           687           612            529          640         862          s
Chsorwad                      1.122         1.200          1.387         1.077         1.006            518          419         741         4s
"HIrakto                      I.065         1.026            679           680           8oB            813          791         698
Sotrapa-a                     1.378 1.627                 1.598         1.394         1.858            873        2.646      3.338
Dhailej                       1.114           453          3.362           8tt           851          1.034        2.711       1.390
Muldwarka                     1.982         1.439          1.177         t.S33         1.53            992        2.121         604
Madhwad                       1.537        3.204           2.848         4.202         1.955          3.693       17.179      9.288
Kotda                         1.007        3.149           1.962         t.S62           740          1.925       15.2b0     11.487
TotatJ              73-034  . 98.444             99.8t9       98.9tO        100.033        79.783       120 402   137.<J44
SoutMce: Oftice af Project Cooritantor.
-4
_a
*o
0



- 45 -
Table 19
INDIA
BuJARaT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-1N)
Landinq Prices of Important Fish at Veraval
(its per kg)
Nase of Fish    1978-79  1979-80  10-81  19813-8   1982-83  198344   1984-85
White Pomfret    6.70     9.95    10.50    14.55    19.05    20.15    18.77
Black Powfret    2.85     4.85     4.15      7.15     7.70     8.50     9.63
Jew Fish         2.65     4.10     3.95      4.65     s.85     6.65     6.18
ils&             4.55     4.75     5.05      6.15     6.70     6.80     8.08
Seer Fish        2.80     3.70     4.35      5.85     6.80     7.40     8.23
Silver Bar       1.35     2.30     2.30      2.50     2.90     4.30      3.3i
Shrimps          5.05     3.30     4.50      5.20     6.10     9.40     6.54
Prawn-Nediul    13.95    17.15    10.70    15.80    20.20    26.95    22.24
Prawn-Jiuwbo    44.85    40.15    27.75    42.25    56.65    64.50    63.67
Lobster         30.15    23.40    24.90    26.85    32.95    35.35    38.17
Source: Office of Project Coordinator.



-46-
Table 20
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-;N)
Escalation In Diesel & Lubricating Oil Prices 1/
Period                    Diesel               Lubricating Oil
Price     Index           Price      Index
(Rs7/Lt-re)               (Rs7/  Ltre)
From   03-01-1978           1.47          100          46.10         100
03-01-1979           1.58         107           49.02         106
08-17-1979           1.77         120           49.50         107
09-11-1979           1.69         115           49.71         108
06-08-1980           2.43         165           55.57         121
07-15-1980           2.44         166           56.16         122
12-01-1980          2.45          167           58.72        127
01-13-1981           2.86         195           60.48        131
02-16-1981           2.87         195           60.60         131
04-01-1981           2.90         197           61.35         133
o     07-01-1981           3.24         220           62.18         135
01-01-1982           3.28         223           63.00        137
U     09-01-1982           3.09         210           65.00         141
0     02-15-1983           3.33         226           66.20         144
04-01-1983           3.37         229           67.10        146
0     01-01-1984           3.40         231           68.52         149
12-01-1984          3.18          216           70.00        152
Present                     3.40         231           85.00         184
jj Prices ApplicablE to Fishermen.
Source: Office of Project Coordinator.



GOUABAT P1SkNE S P30JEC1
(Loan 1394-tWICeOC*tt 095-lttl
CtAn 5Ilw Proactton - t5,* Tr..a.t-
Aversoc Catcth        f                    ftvc ha 9nue/Coata     SAR
ltons)
ftan.e- f roe catch
total zatc9?Wasr
Shr-   Jt              11 9t .4S                                               15.00              141.1S0
fISh - C)              3b                              4.OS                    I9.00               76.950
- C2              99                            *2.tS                     7.00                0s,050
_3               its 1                          14.8S                     4.00                59.400
_ C4 S s                                       _2394.5Q                   0.t0                E8 150
Total                o009                            135.00                      ..                2  10Q               189.700
O.erat-o- cost.
6etS * lubricants (St ot f-t1 Costs$ 2It                                                           I7.430
MaIntenance h- l tt       en9tne 1J                                                                20.eoo00
Pishi1g sear uatntenonce & replace--nt Al                                                           15.000
Wae 3- I se *iPPe. 5 Cr0.,) jI                                                                     ss.soa
Food 3/                                                                                            11.000
ICe  1J                                                                                            23.900
tn*.-ance a10.00
Port dues II                                                                                         t.760
iscelletoo,us * ovgrheads                                                                           * 00
lot&%                                                                                             271-400               *04-200
QnoLLLna. lo.?Bm                                                                               .    a zi1
PreASnt Inuestednt Cost la/                                                                         *n.ogn                19jL1QQ
mt oan                                                                                            320.000 1/            V68.0800
Own fina.nce                                                                                      _Q_Q
Debt SUc.eIna                                                                                         *0,020  1t           35.700
^^epnas annuAt Not C--"t ego                                                                         90.990                4Y.90o
iftanctal *At& of aeturt I                                                                               9 39%               631
It  S% CO 0562/kg. 5  tooster R*38als. 25S C2 as23/59. 6GS  C3 *s7llg. with and swerage priel  of PalS/kg. Prices used In the
analsla ar- the eveaoges of portees obtained in the last 3  ear-s 1982/*3-)94/0S.
2t 34 trtPs a p-or with 205 fishing *&Vs. 13 hoursldOy. 12 *ItrosJbour. Ra3.40ISttre.
,  It101t.0O - for bull. RD10.000 - for *engin.
At  3 trawls **3.000 oecn. *00 a  arP 11010tit.
I   SI  pp-n 11.sloomohotn. croew  f.O009month.  r  * months.
It  a tonu/tEIp.  17/te7tOn.
3   for crew a"n tesesa*
9/0 mOnths w RStSO/month. 4 months a Us40/month. 4.400 for crane.                                                                                  1D
lot  Present  veraoge ilvastmnt cost.
JJ/ at fon. at  R2.5%. Aepayment hCs bOe4 estimated on0 the  0ASIS of' 9-Vear rtepayPnt perlod. after one poor's graco.
la/ Estimated an total )nvestont. over C Poriod of tS years.
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MatstVSwRE'FOJ0
GUJaA4A PlteSUIBSl PR0iVcT
(loan 1394-lteCrOdit 69S-1N
Cast Flow Protection - Cano- gotn Cutbes-s 8o5r
Averags Catch          P-Ci.st.aSJ            S , ..tCasts           .5aBSR fEstisat
ntonl
Revenue Irg  Cateh
P,@hl C-I          20%                                   3.4                    I2                    40.800
C-2          20%                                   3.4                      6                   20.400
C-3          10%                                   *.7                      3                    $.*00
C-4          *.s                                                            I                    a.SO;
Total n                                               O J4L                                        . a                 ZS.000
Operating Costs.
Fuel & Lubr$cants Ji                                                                                   7. v3a
Welnt:nanco of  east =l                                                                                I  200
Daintenanca a Rteplc*e.nt 34 Uotae Al                                                                  2.02O
Gear Maintenance A Rftepsca"Ot Al                                                                      4.000
Wags St
:oad t4 Cer-) Al                                                                                       6.4S0
MIscelaneuS i                                                                                      1.040
Total                                                                                             2t 11S3 Q
Ocerat ota tnco"e                                                                                     S2_947                 8 60o
Present Investment Cost ft                                                                           Z0.000                 3.L40D
! inancina
-AT lOan                                                                                           S6.000 2'              2..300
SubsIdy                                                                                             5.000                  2.700
O.n^ finance                                                                                         ?O                     A
0.0t Servicing                                                                                        15.660 2t              6.200
averaee Annual Not Cash Flow                                                                          31.26*                 2.400
FSnAnclal Rate of netu4 n LgI                                                                           75l                   30%
LI  4 hours of operation per day. 215 days. 2.5 Ittres kIaros.nethour. Rs2.ZSttitres
140 litre oal. RsIStlitre. 10 kg Srease. Rs*2Otlg.
Zt  3% of new boat value.
at  25% oa  capitat cost.
&I  25% of capiiat cost.
St  No wages paid each cre. member shares tn the catch.                                                                                                                   &
'1  est**matd value for flsh taken hOn . *sl.SOtdar for each c,ew. 215 ads..                                                                                              D
le  55 of op-rat tAg coat.
at  Present average  Investment cost.
It  MT loan. at f2.5%. Repayment has been eat leate  on the basis of a 5 yn cr reasyment oertod.
Jj/ Estimat-d on totI invostment. ov-r a P-erod of t0 years.



GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-1)
Cash Flow Protection - OutboaCd Mgtor (for existinY canoe)
Canoe Without 08W
Average Catch       Price       Rweven        Canoes 1/        lnctm rt.aJ           SAR
per Unit          pr kg        Coats        with 0         SIncome fron 08W       eate
(tons)            (Rs)         (Rs)          (Rs)              (Rs)              (Rs)
Revenue from catch
Fish - C1              20%                   2.4               12        28.800         40.800
- C2              20%                  2.4                 6        14.400         20,400
- C3              10%                   1.2                3        3.6uO          1..100
- C4              50%                 6.0                  1        6 I000          8 500
Toltal                                      12.0                         52.800         74,800            22.000             7.100
Ojeratitin costs
Fuel & lubricants                                                           -            7.t38
Maintenance of boat                                                       1.200 2/       1.200
Maintenance & replacement of motor                                          -            2.025
Gear aaintenance & replacement                                            4.000 2/       4.000
Wages
Food                                                                      6,450  6/ 6.450
Miscellaneous                                                               Sa_1-040
Total                                                                    12 230         21 853             9,623             2_900
gueratina Income                                                           40,570         52L94Z             t2 377            4.200
eresent InvestMent Cost I/                                                                                   jg-
Flnancinq
MT loan                                                                                                     7.000 4/         4.600
Subsidy                                                                                                       -                400
Own finance
10.,0,0           5.60p
Debt Servicina                                                                                                1.900 4/         1.900      8.
Averaae Annual Net Cash Flow.                                                                                10t477            4.200
fj1naclal Rate of Return 5I                                                                                   121%             >  S
j/  It is assumed that the catch of canoe with 0DM is 40% higher than the catch of canoe without (3M (see lable 22).
2/  Assumptions are ide,s,t1cal to tiose made foe canoe with 08W (Table 22).
2/  Present average Investment cost
4/  MT loan. at 12.5%. Repayment has been estimated on the basis of a 5 year repayment period.
e 8stimated on total Investment, over a period oat    years.



GUJARAT fIShERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-lItCredit 695-IN)
Re-estimated Economic Rate of Return - Veraval Harbour ji
reaar                  No. of 14.8tr KFVs              IncFetmental    "arbour  Cait .at   Operatit       Incre"ntal       et Incr.
Total I/   Pro-ict                   MFVs used for   CProdjuctbo  Z/   bencfits
Basta 'Ji   others It    Analyst& lJ
...... .....   .   (No.   of   units)    ...........   ......................   (.RsfnoOl  ......................
1978179             413           -           -                           10,137        -           -             -          (10.137)
1979/S0             542          70          iS              8S           10,789    29.920       17,264        26.048        (31.925)
1980/81             542          30           -              30           26.878    10.560       25.033        28.411        (34.060)
1981/82             S8l           5          17              22           13.010      7,744      3I.S96        45.333         47.097)
1982/83             581           -           -               -           36.590        -        31.024        S2.896        0l5.608)
1983/84             626           -          22             .22           23.076      7.744      37.403        71.264          3.041          t
1994/9S             626           -           -               -           36.290        -        37.807        6s.683         (8.414)         
1985/S6             626           -           -               -           10,561        -        38.676        64.395         15.158          1
1986/87             750           -          62              62           12,240    21.824       53.214        B9.SUS          2.227
1987/88-S8/89       750           -           -               -              -          -        53.428        89,505         36.077
1989/90             750           -           -                              -       t2.750      53.428        89.505         23.327
t990/91             750           -           -                              -        4.500      53.428        89.505         31.577
1991/92    *        750           -           -                              -        3.300      53.428        89.545         32.177
1992/93             750           -           -                              -          -        53.428        69,505         36.071
1993/94             750                         -                            -        3.300      53.428        89.505         32.177
1994/S-96S9i        750           -           -               --                        -        S3.425       89.505          36.077
*996197             750           -           -                              -        9.300      53.428        89.505         26.777
1997/98-98/99       750           -           -                              -          -        53.428        89.50S         36.077
Economic Rate of Return = 13%
I/  Analysis has been carried out In terms ot constant 1985/06 prices.
V/  As per fis litsg vussel census.  e*te ldble 17.
3J  For purposes of ERR computatlus.. t,.,#tu1l  a.^ *a.-# boon estiisat..d from project financed MFVs (105 for Veravali and 50% of
the Incretse In non-project financedt vessels.
4/  Financial cost converted to 1986/86 prices using wholesale price index. and expressed In economic terms by deducting
taxes. and using a SCF of 0.80.
5/  Includes provision for replacement ot engines.
61  Includes operating cost of vessels. and 0 & U costs for tite harbour.
L/  Based on an average catch of 135 toous petr UFV (see tatble 21 for catch composition), & actual prices for the different              1
years restated in constant 19865/86 terms.
I!



CUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-1)
Re-Eatimated Economic Rate ot Return - Mannero Harbour j/
Veer                    No. of 14.8m UFV&                    tnco  ZFV-        Btbour  Cosl of  Q&Erjjj          LQC        Uet 1met S
Tot.al 2V  er.nject I/ SQ% of Others I/ Usedforlg. Anayss a /  C9gsj 4   UfMsa1    CA" ni / Producign ZV flmWgfJl
* (s'oO0.....................)...................
197f/79           9g           _                                                2.524        -          -           -          (2.524)
1979/SO           139         14             13                  2?             S.622      9.604      5.471       f.274       (12.323)
1980/61           139         is              -                  IS             4.069      S.280      9.009      10.376        (7.962)
1901/82           166          3             12                  Is             3.065      5.280    13.011       18.853        (2.503)
1982/83           166          -              -                   -             7.100        -       13.065      22.008        (4.613)
1983164           166          -              I                   1             4.555        352    13.414       25.996       *.67o?t
1984/85           168          -      -                           -             5.821        -       13.893      23.960         4.248       F'
1985/88           160          -              -                   -             2.386        -       13.943      23.490         7.161
1906687           tso          -             It                  It                -       3.672    13.985       27.94S        10.088
1987/8S-808/9    t80           -                                                             -       13.986      27.945        13.960
1989J90           180          -              -                   -                -       4.050    13.98S       27.945         9.910
1990/91           180          -              -                   -                -       2.250    t3.965       27.945        11.710
1991/92           t8o          -              -                                            2.250    13.985       27.945        11.710
1992/93          t1oo          -              -                                              -       13.986      27.945        13.960
1993/94           o0o          -              -                   -                -         150    13.985       27.94S        13.010
'994/9S-9S/96    ISO           -              -                   -                -         -       13.985      27.945        13.960
'996/97           to o                        -                   -                -       1.6S0    13.98S       27.945        12.310
1991/96-98/99    160           -              -                   -                -         -       13.98S      27.945        139O00
Economic Rate of Return a 20%
I  Analysts has been carried out in constant 1985/86 prices.
1/  As per fishing vessel census. See table 1.
1/  For purposes of ERR Computation, benefits have boen estimated from project financed WFVs (32 fto  Mangroll and SOI of
the Increase- In non-prnject financed vessels.
4/  Financial cost converted to 1985/86 prices using wholesale prices index. and expressed In economic teors by deducting
taxes and using a SCF of 0.80.
il Includes provision for roplacement of engines.
/ Includes operating cost of vessels, and 0S costs for the harbour.
JL  Based on an average catch of 135 to su poe MFV (see table 21 for catch composition). Alt actual prices for the
the difforent years restated In constant 1985/66 toerms.
'I



- 52 -
Table 26
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-7N)
Re-estimated ERR - Total ProJect 1/
(Rsiono)
Year              Investment    Operatinm    Incremental    Net Incremental
Cost         Cost        Production           Benefits
1978/79               12,661           -              -             (12,661)
1979/80               55,979        22,735         34,322           (44,392)
1980/81               46,787        34,042         38,787           (42,042)
1981/82               33,194        44,607         64,166           (13,635)
1982/83               46,370        47,054         81,264           (12,160)
1983/84               36,241        54,053        106,983            16,689
1984/85               43,177        55,264        100,807             2,366
1985/86               12,947        56,183         99,049            29,919
1986/87               37,946        70,763        128,614            19,905
1987/88                  -          68,8t2        122,254            53,442
1988/89                  -          67,888        119,540            51,652
1989/90               16,872        67,888        119,540            34,780
1990/91                6,910        67,888        119,540            44,742
1991/92                5,550        67,888        119,540            46,102
1992/93                  -          67,888        119,540            51,652
1993/94                3,450        67,741        118,892            47,701
1994/95-95/96            -          67,413        117,450            50,037
1996/97               10,950        67,413        117,450            39,087
1997/98-98/99            -          67,413        117,450            50,037
Economic Rate of Return a 16%
1/ Includes, in addition to the harbours and MFVs, the cost of 29 canoes,
428 OBMs, trucks, roads and sheds; also provision for the replacement
of MFV engines and canoe OBMs is included.



GUJARAT FlSH.RiES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN/Credit 695-IN)
Or!q'isationat Structure of GFCCA Ltd.
thairoan
F      General  janager
LGentra  lIager           Sy. Generat 'anager (Prod.)                                                 Cy. enera  Manager ,              Senior Manager
Fi.nc,               | Senior  mavager                    Nylon met Ptant                           resh Water fisheries              Administration
(Yeraval)                    *Veravat)                       (Ahmedabad)                                 (Atwedabad)                     (Ahmedabad)
Accounts an         oi Bn  eorr                         ne                                ervta                 1oae               Asitn                r  in"
O"t   Engine         Fresb Fish         Freezing       [     ieset    Ibthi                               F     etait          fish Seed
B9uildingISatesIINW                           dj         NW  c               upsOfc                                         Shop$               farms
vard  serviceAsecoverygPtant



mm=s  v i,  viC    a
ISX BLN



I N D t A - GUARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
ILoan 1394- IN  Cre4t 69-IN)
MAP OF IMPORTANT FISHING CENTRES IWGUJARAT
A                                                                                     ......
VIERAAL  -      a. -b 1OO
DUMA                     Wdw~~~~~. moleet
*fv*ftm0lV eistiudd dwnio
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~wI  -  @
MA   RA V
,x,. >v ~~~~~~,Q U  J~~                                   IA                                   R                     - .__.|--ILLM:
VALSa
KOLAK
.4    A     A    5            A     A            S    E      A                 U4RG
or  3.                   Dr t2                                                   3r
00C406-20o?o *e                                                                                                                                      "    *o



i N D I A        GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
( Loan 1394-IN I Credit 69S-IN 3
MANGROL HARBOUR
S-AY-OUT MUMAIS
Of
I AUCTt@Z ,4ALL AND awltCS                 _  
* p&RKI.J A1EUA-'                                                                   >   \
S WBATERt
S  NET .IEP4OR .YARD.'
7 AP#4. OriIcL
ANtE/. C tr6
SPARKI#im.
10  0A*: P&RtcsNlr REPAR YARD.0                                                 Xdk
TItksuILRtmNs GAR StIIWS.
It  WaXER wn WOR".
Is LAN DING Q~U&-f:
14 BERTH4ING QUA'(*
Is DREDGED BASIN.
56 PRocT Gt%ot4 A-Rm
57  WJSSR      7  aREAKW.K5&TER
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
0       so      100      150                                                 \ < C
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-9: A* .&F -W I                                    **&.6._



I N 0 I A - GUJARAT FISHEPRIES PROJECT
(Loan 1394-IN I Credit 695-1N)
VERAVAL HARBOUR
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i} p > +D _ _. _ .
ab            - A  "     Ysl M CO -
*      10           ste HtE  m SEPSC
O     tOO    200    300
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                        _~wn    *&a...... . 
n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   AI   Ous



iqlLn               SI 
H~~~~~~A -J -Jr -J FI i
i_ o s v i - - LLL  I
_aa 



;H) z>@pUty  5913hi1|oi0Ect  eIRI)  mat tW Annex I
<wF<  _                 * *llt P~OIM  a~ge 1
.  9 | >     J6~/'                      (w * q u vu~i1T)
1~~~~~~~~~~~~m ^ t    iW't too* t
*OVSRMENT OF )NOA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
(DIPARlINT O0 A6RCULTUaI  COOPtQtATtN)
KiIsbI bawi . Ro  DtM.10
Comments from 0O!
Doea
Pleas@, refer to the copy of the Ifsle No, 4()/86-n3VIn
dated 9th Apil  9  endosed t Jointt    800etay   shries IS thi
4marin*r.pasring co-onto on the draft OjroJ e completion report
i   esec ofV3  ?koelet" IZ t legi*                 Pi0j00   0 1Oseg
In fjam   =6AMMPnassitdmt&              Iun   ihrisPo  o
we ha be   ml         for ath  detale  commts frm the    totat
Goenmets, Vs av  not yet ived ther eoaamta. Novewer, as far
an     a Us  baet tr   Id  xlxda*y In     r am OlllXo It Is ali"k
M X oZX 8 =@ @w b ooem, tb *is stae   e.ta
the M     orld Bank project pRowws". qitoe satisftorily hun  US
pirojt period with       giventd oe
oedures   a wer fto ll       e bor  Bok
WA%    lde, Ite tokow f hLat tS crdit omIonent                        ae
pow show, the psical target I respect of m a      niCe Si        se
envisar to be acheved util1t red                      under the project
reh mao nu 50%.           it        VOrl Sonk Xfs agolUt t*e
component ws not utiSo&. Both the ftato  oenrmto and this    it
=Ad conoerted efforts to Improve the credt utllti   with respect
to the lending progremsr neeting at the state level ad at           ral
level ofte offiers of th  c           nationalised  eaks wre conened
to laproe upo  the banking authorities the "aessi*y of Isproving the
leading peorane, o     e bas eontnued with their stnd tat unloe
'the rpamenat of a few loans santioned earlier Iproved, they were not
in a position to tke up nw landings.       this ale      because the
banks did not havV'proper collection machinery at  e fied level tro
motivate the fiahermon In repament of loan.
8imutaneous li, tho State GWoemtet had their own lending
prograe for introduction of tho fishing vessels. Dring the aam
peod h   were sucoesful. both in lending a woll as manging the
recoetries of loans m the beneficiaries. the Deparxment of Fisheries
had undertaken the pwogame of lending directly to the beneficiaries,
not through nationalloed banks. te success of the Ple'teries Dpartnt
VWa attributed to the deploymont of satisfactowy collection machinery
at the field level.
In view of the above, it could be stated tba-t one of t;he
lessons learned from the World Bank projects wa that it would be not
practicable to entrust the lendg programe to the nationalised banks
In the cases of lending money to Sihermen for purchase of boats uhen
they lack In required motivating field personnel. Instead,a th credit
has to be rooted directly through th S1tate Directorate of Fisherie,.
ye have no other oomments to make,
Wifth
Yours sincerely,
I S4t-
<,  (--  -. ~                          (LI, Irishauth



- 60 -                     Annex I
Page 2
oia R of *ono
xaer Boeon (n3
99paltn  o cn          Ata ffaif@3
FJIt. of  0 tane



