Report No. 1326b-IN
India
Appraisal of
Gujarat Fisheries Project
March 16, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                    Rs 9.00 1/
Rs 1.00                    US$0.111
Rs 1,000                   US$111.111
Rs 1,000,000               US$111,111.111
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CCB      -   Central Cooperative Banks
CCC      -   Central Coordinating Committee
CIFT     -   Central Institute of Fishing Technology
CMFRI    -   Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute
EFP      -   Exploratory Fisheries Project
FPCS     -   Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies
FTD      -   Fisheries Terminal Division
GDF      -   Gujarat Department of Fisheries
GFCCA    -   Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Ltd.
GOG      -   Government of Gujarat
GOI      -   Government of India
GPD      -   Gujarat Ports Directorate
GSCB     -   Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd.
GSLDB    -   Gujarat State Land Development Bank Ltd.
DACFF    -   Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forest,
and Fisheries
ICAR     -   Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
MFV      -  Mechanized Fishing Vessels (Trawlers or Gillnetters)
MPEDA    -   Marine Products Export Development Authority
MES      -   Monitoring and Evaluation System
PISFH    -   Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Harbors
PSC      -   Project Supervision Committee
RIK      -   Reserve Bank of India
SFDA     -   Small Farmers Development Agency
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued
at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed
against a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in this report have been made at US$1
to Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average rate prevailing
at the time of appraisal, May 1976.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....             .........................   i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ...............   ..........................                1
II.    THE FISHERIES SECTOR ...............         ..1................. 
General                         .....    1
Marine Fisheries in Gujarat                ......................  2
Traditional Marine Fisheries .....................                 3
Fishing Harbors .............       .....................          3
Marketing .......         ............................             5
Boat Building ......         ...........................           5
Fisheries Credit .....................................             5
Fisheries Extension Services  (GOG)            ...............     6
Development Policies .....           .......................       6
III.    THE PROJECT ........................................................     6
General ....... .............. .....................               6
Detailed Features .......  .....................                   7
Assistance to Traditional Fisheries ..............                 9
Provision of Net Making Machines ..               ...............   10
Technical Assistance .....            ........................   10
Project Implementation ...........................   11
Project Beneficiaries .....           ......................     11
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....            ......................   11
General .......          ...................................    11
Gujarat Ports Directorate .....            ...................    12
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association        ....................................    12
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd.   .... .........              13
Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies  ....... .    13
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation    14
Fisheries Terminal Division ........... ...........    14
Central Coordinating Committee ......... ..........   15
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting .............   15
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. R.L. Headworth, E. Chobanian, C. Helman, F. Kada (Bank) and M. Hewitt,
J. Marr and P. Mornement (Consultants) that visited India in May, 1976.
This disument has a retricted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their .Alicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .........................    15
Cost Estimates ......     ....................             15
Financing ............................... .........    17
Lending Terms and Conditions ..................     ..    17
Procurement ......       ...............................    18
Disbursement ......        ..............................    19
Accounts and Audit ....................   .. ..*.... .    19
Subsidies .......       ................................    20
Boat Risk Fund ......        ............................    20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES  ....................    21
Production ....................   ...................    21
Market ..........        ................................    21
Prices ............   .    ..............................    21
Financial Returns to Project Beneficiaries   ......    22
Financial Returns to Government ....         .............   22
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....          ..............    23
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................    24
SCHEDULE A - PROJECT LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ANNEXES
1.   Marine Fisheries
2.   Fishing Harbor Facilities
3.   Shore Facilities and Services
4.   Marine Fishing Vessels
5.   Traditional Fishermen Component
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   Project Implementation Schedule
8.   Cost Estimates
9.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
11.   Organization and Management
12.   Marketing and Prices
13.   Cash Flow Projections
14.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
16235    -    14.8 m (48 ft) Trawler/Gillnetter
16236    -    9 m (29 ft) Canoe
16634    -    Fishery Harbor at Mangrol
16633    -    Fishery Harbor at Veraval
MAP
12317    -    India and Gujarat State
12318    -    Gujarat Fishing Villages



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a fisheries project in the State of Gujarat.
The project involves a total investment cost of US$38 million for which the
Government of India (GOI) has asked for an IDA Credit of US$4 million and a
Bank loan of US$14 million under Third Window terms.
Objectives
ii.       Both GOI and Gujarat Government (GOG) attach high priority to
developing marine fisheries in the interests of increasing protein supplies
and exports, and of improving employment opportunities in fishing districts.
Up to now most of the GOG efforts have gone into sponsoring the use of me-
chanized fishing vessels (MFV) and the modernization of traditional fishing
craft and gear. This drive has been generally successful, but the growth in
catching capacity that it has generated is now placing great strain on exist-
ing fishing harbors and on marketing channels and facilities. The project
described in this report is designed to alleviate these problems in Gujarat
by modernizing and expanding the harbors and shore facilities at Mangrol and
Veraval. It would complement these efforts by financing an additional expan-
sion in MFV numbers and by furthering the modernization of traditional
fishing craft. Importantly the project would include a first, although very
modest, program aimed at improving the physical infrastructure in selected
fishing villages.
iii.      The project would be carried out over five years and would comprise
the following principal components:
(a) improvement of the fishing harbors at Mangrol and Veraval
to permit more MFV to use these facilities and to provide
better protection against adverse weather;
(b) improvement of shore facilities and services at Mangrol
and Veraval to provide suitable support for the existing
fleet and expansions which are expected to occur as a
consequence of the project;
(c) provision of credit to entrepreneurs to establish fish
processing, freezing, and ice plants at the two harbors;
(d) construction and equipping of 270 14.8 m MFV and their
sale on credit to fishermen;
(e) assistance to traditional fisheries by the: (i) provision,
on credit, of 350 9m fishing canoes equipped with out-
board motors and gear, and of 1,050 outboard motors;



- ii -
(ii) improvement in the infrastructure serving eight fishing
villages; and (iii) improvement in the fish marketing sys-
tem of these villages;
(f)  provision of two net making machines for Gujarat Fisheries
Central Cooperative Association Ltd. (GFCCA); and
(g)  technical assistance for test fishing, a marketing study,
and project implementation.
iv.       The project, with the exception of the test fishing operations and
the fish marketing study which would be the responsibility of GOI, would be
carried out by GOG with refinance for credit operations being provided by the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).
v.        GOI, in accordance with established policies for development assist-
ance to the State, would make available part of the IDA Credit and Bank loan to
GOG to finance: (a) improvement of the fishing harbors and shore facilities
and services; and (b) improvement of the infrastructure and marketing system
in selected fishing villages. A further part of the Credit would be made
available to ARDC for on-lending through participating banks to fishermen,
fisheries cooperative societies and private entrepreneurs for fishing vessels
and installations, such as ice plants, freezing complexes, and processing
plants. Lending to ultimate borrowers through ARDC would be on ARDC standard
terms which follow closely current rates for institutional lending throughout
India, including lending under on-going projects financed by IDA/Bank.
Organization
vi.       The leading agency in project organization would be the GOG Depart-
mnent of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forest and Fisheries (DACFF) in which a
Project Supervision Committee (PSC) would be established. PSC would have a
full-time secretary who would act as the project coordinator. The Gujarat
Ports Directorate (GPD) would be responsible for the construction of the
harbor investments and would continue to manage the harbors.
vii.      A Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD) would be established under the
Commissioner of Fisheries (GOG) to manage the zones allocated to the develop-
ment of shore facilities and the fisheries terminals at Mangrol and Veraval.
FTD would lease land, and in some cases buildings, to private, public and
cooperative entities for the establishment of shore facilities to serve the
fishing fleets and to process fish. Fish auction facilities at the two har-
bors would be owned and operated by FTD.
viii.     ARDC would be the financing channel for the project credit compo-
nents for which it would draw up a Project Banking Plan. ARDC, which is well
known to Bank Group through its involvement in 26 IDA Credits, is well managed
and its finances are satisfactory.



- iii -
ix.       GFCCA would play an important role in the project.  It would be the
source of supply of most, if not all, of the 14.8 m MFV, arrange for the sup-
ply of 9 m canoes for traditional fishermen and assist with fish marketing
ment of Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies (FPCS). However, to carry
out its responsibilities it requires a large measure of financial rehabili-
tation and the strengthening of its management. Assurances were given that
GOG would assist with the establishment of FPCS, which would play an import-
ant role in the project as they would operate the hire purchase type scheme
through which canoes and outboard motors would be provided to fishermen under
the project.
Costs and Financing
x.        Total project costs are estimated at US$38 million equivalent of
which about US$11.5 million (30%) is the estimated foreign exchange component,
and about US$2.4 million are duties and taxes.
Project Cost Summary
Project Component                        Local   Foreign   Total
Harbour Improvements                      8.7       2.5      11.2
Shore Facilities                           1.3      1.3       2.6
Vessels                                   5.2       0.6       5.8
Traditional Fishermen Sub-project         2.0       0.7       2.7
Miscellaneous Supporting Equipment         -        0.1       0.1
Technical Assistance                      0.3       2.6       2.9
Contingencies                             9.0       3.7      12.7
26.5     11.5      38.0
xi.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$4 million and Bank loan of US$14
million would finance about 50% of total project costs net of duties and
taxes, including about US$6.5 million of local currency costs.
Procurement
xii.      Contracts for one major harbor improvements at Veraval, equipment of
shore facilities (ice plants, freezing complexes, etc), dredging equipment, and
for the procurement of outboard motors for canoes, would be awarded through
international competitive bidding. International competitive bidding would
not, however, be suitable for procurement of the smaller harbor improvement at
Mangrol, the MFV or their engines. The vessels would be built in Gujarat boat
building yards to proven designs and be of locally procured timber. The MFV
would be equipped with one of two makes of domestically manufactured engines
according to customer preference. Procurement of canoes, which are made in
the State of Kerala, and fishing nets and gear which are locally manufactured,
also would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. In these
cases procurement would follow local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA/Bank.



- iv -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
xiv.      A monitoring, evaluation and reporting system would be established
under the project and would provide base line and current information on proj-
ect implementation, its benefits and costs. The system would also be con-
cerned with monitoring exploitation rates in order to identify any possibility
of over-fishing.
Benefits and Justification
xv.       The project would make an important contribution to GOI's develop-
ment efforts to increase fisheries production for domestic consumption and
export. Annual incremental output at full development (after project year
five) is expected to be about 44,600 ton (including 3,700 tons of shrimp)
valued at Rs 72.8 million (US$8.1 million) at current landing prices.
xvi.      The project would create employment for:  (i) about 1,900 fisher-
men on 14.8 m trawlers; (ii) about 1,100 fishermen on canoes financed under
the project and (iii) for about 500 persons in shore facilities. About 500
fishermen would benefit from the motorization of their canoes. Existing
vessels based on Mangrol and Veraval, which are operated by about 3,000 fish-
ermen, would be able to fish for longer periods because of the harbor improve-
ments. In total, about 7,000 persons would benefit directly from the project.
An additional 10,000 people would benefit from the improvement of the infra-
structure in their villages. As a consequence of project construction activi-
ties about three million mandays of work would be generated by the project
in its five year development period.
xvii.     Financial returns to project beneficiaries would be satisfactory
ranging from 23% to over 55%. The overall economic rate of return for the
project is estimated at 24% and the economic returns from individual compo-
nents from 16% to over 60%.
xviii.    Subject to reaching satisfactory agreements and assurances which
were obtained at negotiations, the project would be suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$4 million and a Bank loan of US$14 million under Third Window terms.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has asked for an IDA Credit of US$4
million and a Bank loan of US$14 million to help finance a fisheries project
in the State of Gujarat. GOI attaches high priority to marine fisheries
development and to this project which would be the first of its kind in India
and the forerunner of similar projects now under preparation in other States.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government of Gujarat (GOG) with
assistance of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission which visited India
during November/December 1974 and at various times in the period July to
December 1975. The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
participated in the preparation of the traditional fishermen component of the
project.
1.03      This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. R. L. Headworth, E. Chobanian, C. Helman, F. Kada (Bank) and
M. Hewitt, J. Marr and P. Mornement (Consultants), that visited India in
May 1976.
1/
II. THE MARINE FISHERIES SECTOR
General
2.01      With total fisheries production in 1975 estimated at 2.4 million
tons, of which 1.6 million tons (69%) from marine fisheries, India is a major
fish producing country. During the past decade (1966 to 1975) marine catch
and marine product exports increased at an average annual rate of about 8%
and 13% respectively. The value of marine product exports in 1975/76 was
Rs 1,269 million (US$140 million) or about 3% of the total value of India's
exports in that year. India's shrimp catch is the largest in the world and
shrimp account for most (about 90% in 1975) of marine product exports.
There is a good demand in world markets for India shrimp, and resources are
sufficient for a considerable expansion in catch and exports. The main con-
straints are the shortage of harbor and processing facilities.
1/   Background on the economy and the agricultural sector is provided
in reports on "Economic Situation and Prospects of India," Report
No. 402-IN, May 7, 1974 and Report No. 1073-IN, March 29, 1976.



-2-
2.02      Protein supplies in India are estimated at about 88% of require-
ments, making it one of the most protein deficient areas in the world. Fish
is amongst the cheapest sources of animal protein and increased production is
one way to rectify this deficiency. Fish consumption in India is increasing.
Annual per capita supply of fish in 1975 was estimated at about 4 kg per
capita, nearly double the supplies available two decades ago.
2.03      Under the Fifth Five Year Plan (1974-1979) GOI is giving a special
boost to the fisheries sector. An outlay of Rs 1,619 million has been planned
and annual incremental production targets for marine fisheries averaging about
100,000 tons per annum are envisaged. Similar annual targets have been recom-
mended by the National Commission on Agriculture (1976) for the period 1975-
2000. If this is achieved, India's marine fisheries catch would amount to
3.5 million tons by the year 2000. These targets are realistic given that
FAO estimates that India can harvest at least 2.4 million tons annually from
its continental shelf without overfishing and that, in addition, there are sub-
stantial deep sea resources that so far are largely unexploited (see Annex 1).
The latter is due both to lack of experience and to lack of supporting infra-
structure for deep sea fishing. GOI has recently ordered a number of 23 m
steel hull mechanized fishing vessels for the purpose of carrying out experi-
mental deep sea fishing beyond the continental shelf. In addition to the
excellent resource base, catching capacity is steadily rising and there has
been a rapid expansion over the last decade of fishing by small mechanized
fishing vessel (MFV).  The number of MFV has increased from about 3,000 to
11,000 over the last ten years, and productivity per fisherman from about
three tons to over five tons per year. The MFV generally are made of wood,
range between 10-15 m in length and are fitted with inboard engines of 90 hp.
Crewed by 4 to 8 men, most MFV make only day trips. Typically, the boats
operate as trawlers when shrimp are plentiful, and convert to gillnetters
when table fish are abundant. In contrast to the expansion in MFV numbers,
the development of fishing harbors and shore facilities has not kept pace
with the expansion of the MFV fleet, the increasing size of MFV, and introduc-
tion of deep sea fishing vessels, and, there is considerable congestion in
most fishing harbors as well as unnecessary spillage of the catch. More
detailed information on the marine fisheries sector is contained in Annex 1.
Marine Fisheries in Gujarat
2.04      In India, as a whole, commercial fishermen and companies employing
MFV account for about 40% of total catch, with traditional fishermen catch-
ing the remainde~. The same proportion exists in Gujarat which commands
about 100,000 km of India's continental shelf of 415,000 km but only harvests
about 11% (190,000 tons annually) of India's marine catch.
2.05      Commercial fishermen in Gujarat use the same general type of vessel
described in para 2.03, but specifically a 14.8 m trawler-cum-gillnetter is
preferred. It is estimated that the number of MFV operating from Gujarat bases
has increased from about 400 in 1965 to 1,300 in 1975, and this trend is ex-
pected to continue. The average 14.8 trawler-cum-gillnetter catches about
120 tons annually, of which 10% is shrimp (50% of which usually is exportable).
The principal commercial varieties of fish are Bombay duck, dhoma, clupeids,



- 3 -
and sharks. In addition, smaller quantities of high price and export vari-
eties such as pomfret, seer fish, thread fin, Indian shad, giant herring, squid,
cuttle fish, red snapper, lobster, perch, eels, and sea bream are landed. MFV
land fish at four partially protected fishing harbors: Veraval and Mangrol,
which would be the subject of project actions, and Porbandar, and Okha, as
well as at fifteen other landing sites equipped with jetties or walls. Fishing
stops during the monsoon due to the bad weather and in this period of unem-
ployment, fishermen are frequently forced to borrow heavily.
Traditional Marine Fisheries
2.06      Traditional fishing methods and craft have evolved over centuries.
Craft include dugout canoes, plank boats and catamarans, all of which can
operate from unprotected beaches. Modernization has extended to the use of
nylon nets and improved gear, which are now used on most craft, and to an
increasing use of outboard motors. Most fish is landed on the beach in good
condition where it is sold to fish traders, occasionally by auction. About
10 to 15% of the catch is salted, mostly for sale in inland Indian markets,
lower quality fish is smoked, and the remainder iced and marketed.
2.07      Catch rates are subject to weather conditions especially since
non-motorized vessels cannot be launched from beaches when the surf is strong.
During these periods, fishermen often resort to obtaining advances from fish
traders against future catches.
2.08      There are about 200 traditional fishing villages in Gujarat with an
estimated population of about 200,000. Fishing villages are usually isolated
and often lack potable water, access roads, primary schools, medical facil-
ities and communications. Unemployment in these villages is high and it is
difficult for fishermen to obtain credit to purchase canoes. GOG is attempt-
ing to upgrade standards of living in these areas by improvement of the phy-
sical and social infrastructure and through making credit available for canoes
and outboard motors. Demand for the latter is high because of the substantial
increases in catch made possible by motorization. The proposed project would
contain elements aimed at assisting traditional fishermen.
Fishing Harbors
2.09      Under the project described in this report two of Gujarat's four
protected harbors would be improved. The situation at these two harbors
is summarized below and described in more detail in Annex 2.
2.10      Mangrol:  Mangrol is exclusively a fishing harbor.  Harbor facil-
ities consist of a beach, partially protected by a 150 m breakwater, which
is used by about 170 canoes, about 50 of which are motorized, and a basin
used by 95 MFV; shallowness of the basin limits MFV to 13 m. There are no
landing quays and the breakwater is used for landing fish; only 5-6 vessels
can moor alongside and others have to tie up in parallel with the catch
carried across moored vessels. The landing area is congested, and because
conditions are unsatisfactory for hygienic fish handling, spoilage is high.



-4-
2.11      The harbor is inadequately protected from the weather, and during
the monsoon season the harbor basin is swept by surf and all the boats in-
cluding MFV, have to be ashore from April/May to September. The number of
vessels operating from Mangrol cannot be increased without considerable ex-
pansion and improvement of the harbor.
2.12      The harbor is served by 7 block ice plants with a total rated capa-
city of 31.5 t/day but one of the plants (5 t/day) is now inoperative. About
60% of ice produced is used by the fishing industry, and the remainder by
other commercial interests in the town of Mangrol. Ice production capacity
is only about 50% of the existing requirement. There is no storage facility
for ice or iced fish, and no freezing plants or frozen storage facilities.
Fish for processing have to be transported in ice to Veraval or Bombay. There
are plans for a private company to develop a complex, including a 15 t/day
block ice plant with 50 tons storage capacity, a 5 t/day freezing plant with
100 tons of frozen storage capacity, and an iced fish store with capacity
for 50 tons of fish. This will largely satisfy current requirements but will
be insufficient for the expanded fleet that is expected to develop as harbor
improvements planned under the project are carried out. There are two en-
gine service stations in the port area and fuel is available. Minor repair
facilities for boats are available, but MFV have to sail to Veraval for major
repairs.
2.13      Veraval:  Veraval is both a fishing harbor and a commercial port.
The port handles 350,000 tons of cargo per year, mainly fertilizer, agricul-
tural products and cement, and is a pickup point for frozen fish products,
such as shrimp, squid, cuttlefish and pomfret. Fishing facilities comprise
a 185 m MFV quay and a 300 m landing quay, neither of which are accessible
at low tide. Because these facilities are insufficient, MFV also utilize
the commercial harbor, aggravating its congestion. The port entrance is
shallow, insufficiently protected from the south west monsoon winds, and, as
a result, fishing operations are interrupted for 3-4 months every year.
Facilities for landing, auctioning, handling and marketing fish are unsatis-
factory. Fish are landed directly on the quay where there are inadequate
washing facilities.
2.14      Although Veraval has 12 block ice plants, with a total rated capa-
city of 155 t/day, less than 70% of this capacity is achieved due to poor
operating conditions and shortage of water. Ice is in short supply during
the peak fishing months when it has to be brought from as far as Rajkot
(150 km). A new 20 t/day block ice plant with 100 tons storage, financed
by ARDC, is under construction for the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and should be completed before mid-1977. When this is
commissioned GFCCA will close an operating plant because it is obsolete, and
total ice production capacity will be about 163 t/day, which is about
50% of maximum daily demand.
2.15      There are three fish freezing plants with installed capacity of
42 t/day with storage for 750 tons. An additional 4 t/day freezing plant
with frozen storage of 200 tons of fish is being constructed for GFCCA with
ARDC financing, and a 2.5 t/day freezing plant with 50 tons of frozen storage
for a commercial enterprise (Tata) is at the planning stage. A commercial



-5-
prawn canning plant is also under construction. Freezing capacity in Veraval
is adequate for present catch rates.
2.16      Fish is dried at Veraval in areas leased from the Gujarat Ports
Directorate (GPD). Fish are laid out on unsurfaced areas, either on the bare
ground, fences or frames. The techniques and facilities are primitive and a
high proportion of dried fish is spoiled and unsuitable for human consumption.
2.17      Veraval has one makeshift fishmeal plant with a rated capacity of
50 tons of raw material per day; in addition, there are 9 plants with a total
capacity of 90 t/day for grinding sun dried fish to make animal feed, and a
shark liver oil unit with a rated capacity of 50,000 liters per annum. GFCCA
operates a boat building and repair yard with a capacity of building 90 MFV
per annum at Veraval and there are 4 engine repair shops and a fuel supply
station.
Marketing
2.18      Bombay is the center in India for marine fish sales, both fresh and
dried fish, consumption of fresh marine fish, and is the largest wholesale and
transhipment center for these commodities. Prices throughout India are closely
related to Bombay prices which are determined daily by a Bombay Market Com-
mittee of private traders on the basis of supply and demand. The Committee
determines maximum prices which are posted daily. The traders communicate
price information daily to other fish production centers. Most dried fish
is shipped to inland and tribal markets but a small percentage (about 15%)
is exported to the Gulf States, Sri Lanka and Singapore.
2.19      Less than 15% of fresh fish produced in Gujarat is consumed there,
because of a high percentage of vegetarians. A few traders purchase for urban
centers in Gujarat but most fish is bought by traders and shipped to Bombay
and other major cities.
Boat Building
2.20      In Gujarat, all locally constructed fishing vessels are of wood
(teak and sajad) from the forests of southern Gujarat. The cost of Gujarat
teak is about 20% lower than the international price. MFV follow traditional
designs that have proven suitable for local conditions. The only well equipped
boat yard is that owned and operated by GFCCA at Veraval which employs a qua-
lified engineer and naval architect. A small number of MFV are made on the
open beaches by groups of individual carpenters; such boats are cheaper than
those made by GFCCA but they rarely meet safety standards set by GOG.
Fisheries Credit
2.21      The most important sources for medium and long term credit for the
fisheries sector are commercial banks, the Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd.,
(GSCB), and the Gujarat State Financing Corporation. ARDC provides refinance
facilities for approved fisheries schemes.



- 6-
GOG Fisheries Extension Services
2.22      In each of Gujarat's coastal districts there is a GOG superintendent
of fisheries supported by fisheries officers and extension workers. New dev-
elopments are disseminated to fishermen mostly through regular community meet-
ings, and a bi-monthly magazine. The work of fisheries personnel includes:
monitoring the trade in fish and fish prices; helping in the formation and
operation of fishermen's cooperatives; and conducting research and revenue
surveys.
Development Policies
2.23      Both GOI and GOG attach high priority to developing marine fisheries
in the interests of increasing protein supplies and exports, and of improving
employment opportunities in fishing districts. Up to now most of the Govern-
ments' efforts have gone into sponsoring the use of MFV and the modernization
of traditional fishing craft and gear. This drive has been generally success-
ful, but the growth in catching capacity that it has generated is now placing
great strain on existing fishing harbors and on marketing channels and facil-
ities. The project described in this report is designed to alleviate these
problems in Gujarat by modernizing and expanding the harbors and shore facil-
ities at Mangrol and Veraval. It would complement these efforts by financing
an additional expansion in MFV numbers and by furthering the modernization
of traditional fishing craft. Importantly, the project would include a first,
although very modest, program aimed at improving living conditions in selected
fishing villages.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The project would be carried out over five years and would comprise
the following principal components:
(a) improvement of the fishing harbors at Mangrol and Veraval to
permit more MFV to use these facilities and to provide better
protection against adverse weather;
(b) improvement of shore facilities and services at Mangrol and
Veraval to provide suitable support for the existing fleet
and expansion which is expected to occur as a consequence
of the project;
(c) provision of credit to entrepreneurs to establish fish pro-
cessing, freezing, and ice plants at the two harbors;
(d) construction and equipping of 270 14.8 m MFV and their sale
on credit and/or hire purchase to cooperatives and fishermen;



- 7 -
(e) assistance to traditional fisheries by the: (i) provision, on
credit, of 350 9 m fishing canoes equipped with outboard motors
and gear, and of an additional 1,050 outboard motors; (ii) im-
provement in the infrastructure serving eight fishing villages;
and (iii) improvement in the fish marketing system of these
villages;
(f) provision of two net making machines for GFCCA; and
(g) technical assistance for test fishing, marketing studies, and
project implementation.
3.02      The project, with the exception of the test fishing operations
which would be the responsibility of GOI, would be carried out by GOG with
refinance for credit operations being provided by ARDC.
Detailed Features
3.03      Fishing Harbors.  The existing situation at Mangrol and Veraval
is described in Annex 2 which details the works to be carried out under the
project, the status of basic studies and engineering, the design criteria
employed, and the methods and organization to be used. At Mangrol the harbor
is too small to accommodate the existing fleet of 95 small, up to 13 m, MFV,
and because of congestion, MFV have to be hauled up onto land for the monsoon
period. This process entails considerable time as the first MFV have to be
hauled up one month in advance of the end of season; conversely, it is about
a month after the end of the monsoon season before the last boats are launched.
Much fishing time is lost. Under the project an additional 250 m of breakwater
would be constructed and dredging carried out to form a tidal basin about 190 m
by 70 m and with a depth of 2.5 m below low water (the 14.8 m MFV draws about
1.7 m). The basin would be faced with 385 m of quay for landing fish, out-
fitting and berthing. At the completion of project works the harbor would be
able to handle about 110 MFV at either morning or evening landing periods.
During emergencies a fleet of 165 MFV could be accommodated in sheltered
berths. Additionally a protected beach would be formed for use by traditional
craft and 2 ha of land cleared and leveled as a fisheries terminal where sup-
porting services and facilities would be located. (Chart 16634).
3.04      At Veraval the fishing harbor is inadequate for the 400 MFV that
are based there and for vessels from other harbors that land fish and dock
there. There is insufficient quay length for loading and outfitting, in-
adequate land area for the siting of shore facilities and, importantly,
egress is restricted at low water and even during moderate seas. Slipway
facilities for MFV are totally inadequate. Under the project the existing
breakwater would be extended by 334 m to a total of 654 m; a lee breakwater
of 500 m would be constructed, as would be 535 m of landing and berthing quays,
and 1,120 m (both sides) of open berthing jetties. The entire harbor would
be dredged to 3 m below low water (thus permitting use by MFV of up to 23 m)
and the entrance channel from depths of 5.5 m at the harbor entrance to 4 m
at the existing MFV quay. At completion of these works the harbor will be
able to accommodate 700 MFV, and be open to vessels throughout the year,
particularly the new 23 m and larger MFV which are expected to use the



-8-
port in the future. Improvements would also include construction of a slipway
(to accommodate the equivalent of sixty 15 m vessels), and development of
7.5 ha as a fisheries terminal where shore facilities and services would be
provided (Chart 16633).
3.05      Improvement works at Mangrol would not significantly disrupt harbor
operations. At Veraval, however, the works would require construction of a
cofferdam and dewatering of part of the harbor. As described in Annex 2,
while this dam would not seriously restrict access to existing wharves and
quays, it would be necessary to open it and to flood the whole basin before
the start of the monsoon to provide a refuge for vessels.
3.06      Shore Facilities and Services.  Under the project GOG would provide
a number of shore facilities at the two terminals to serve fishermen, these
are described in more detail in Annex 3. These facilities would be con-
structed at the fisheries terminals developed under the harbor improvement
component which would be managed by Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD) (see
para 4.09). The facilities would be owned by GOG and managed by GOG agen-
cies, or leased to private companies or cooperatives. At Mangrol, GOG would
provide and maintain roads and drainage facilities, offices, an improved water2
supply providing 250 t/day and, a 66 kv electricity supply line, and a 1,950 m
fish auction hall would be operated by FTD.  A cant en for fishermen and
workers, surfaced areas for fish drying and a 240 m gear shed would be leased
to entrepreneurs and MFV operators by FTD. At Veraval similar but more exten-
sive facilities would be provided. They would include offices, roads and
drainage, security fencing of the development area, a water system providing
2,000 t/day, and a 40 MW power supply. The auction hall would be much larger
than at Iangrol, 8,250 m , as would2 be the canteen drying areas, workshop
(1,200 m ) and gear sheds (2,250 m ).  Sites for fuel and oil stations would
be provided at both harbors.
3.07      Fish Processing, Freezing, and Ice Plants.  Under the project, cre-
dit would be provided (see para 4.08 ad 5.05) for entrepreneurs - private,
corporate and cooperative, to construct and operate plants at the Mangrol
and Veraval fisheries terminals. Sites for these plants, which will be
needed to handle production generated by the project as well as to meet cur-
rent shortfalls would be leased to entrepreneurs by FTD. For Mangrol, pro-
vision is made for a 75 t/day block ice plant with 200 t storage; a 10 t/day
freezing plant for shrimp and other fish; and 100 t storage for iced fish.
Currently it is anticipated that catch rates will justify the construction of
the freezing plant by project year (PY) 4 (1980). At Veraval, a larger and
more sophisticated program is planned which would comprise two 200 t/day block
ice plants each with 400 t storage; an 18 t/day freezing plant with a 500 t
storage for frozen fish with 150 t storage for iced fish; and fish meal plant
with a daily throughput of 75 t day raw material. The ice plants are estimat-
ed to be required in PY 3 and PY 5; the freezing plant in PY 4; and the fish
meal plant is planned for completion by PY 4. Annex 3 contains more details
of these programs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
design and capacity of the freezing complexes for Mangrol and Veraval would



- 9 -
be reviewed by ARDC; and the proposed second block ice complex for Veraval
would be prepared by GFCCA and reviewed by ARDC by June 1981 (para 8.01(a)).
3.08      Construction of MFV.  The project would finance 270 14.8 m MFV (70
to operate from Mangrol and 200 from Veraval). These would be fully equipped
with 90 hp air or water cooled inboard engines (according to owner preference)
and fishing gear (Chart 16235), and would cost an estimated Rs 180,000 to Rs
200,000 each. Operated by a crew of six, with a carrying capacity of 4 tons
of fish, the vessels would be suitable for both trawling and gill-netting. A
description of the vessels is at Annex 4. They would be constructed in
Gujarat by GFCCA at Veraval. They would be of wooden construction and of
proven design (see para. 5.07).
Assistance to Traditional Fisheries
3.09      Fishermen assisted under this component, which is described in
more detail in Annex 5, would mostly be located in eight fishing villages
situated between Mangrol and Veraval but recipients of the outboard motors
would be drawn also from about 27 other villages (see Map 12318).
3.10      Canoes and outboard motors.  The project would provide finance for
350 new 9 m canoes equipped with 8 hp outboard motors and fishing gear, 344 of
these would be dugout canoes based on a single log of wood designed for a
crew of three (Chart 16236), and six would be fiberglass canoes which would
be used to test the suitability of this type of craft for Gujarat conditions.
1,400 outboard motors would be supplied on credit to fishermen: 475 for
existing non-motorized canoes, 575 as replacements, and 350 for the new
canoes to be constructed under the project. The motors would be provided
together with spare parts equivalent to 20% of the value of the engines.
3.11      Marketing:  To improve the marketing of fish produced by fishermen
in the eight villages, the project would provide four trucks for use by GFCCA
for the delivery of ice and spare parts and to collect fish from the eight
villages (Map 12318). A shed would be provided by GOG at each village to be
used as markets and for the temporary storage of fish.
3.12      Village Infrastructure.  About 33.5 km of asphalted roads, 3.65 m
wide, would be constructed by GOG to provide better access to the village
fish markets and generally facilitate transportation of fish, ice and other
inputs. Village water supply systems would be constructed by GOG in five
villages which are now without them. The systems would comprise wells of
18 m x 6 m, energized by electrical pumps and piping (about 5 km/village)
to stand pipes in the villages.
Provision of Net Making Machines
3.13      The project would finance two net manufacturing machines for GFCCA,
which is one of India's leading net manufacturers. The net factory, which
is now operating six days per week and three shifts per day, needs these
machines to meet an increasing demand for nets.



- 10 -
Technical Assistance
3.14      Test Fishing Operations:  The project would finance two test fishing
operations by GOI: one off Gujarat and the other off Andhra Pradesh. Objec-
tives would be resource data collection, in particular details of distribution
and catch rates of different species according to season, and the determination
of improved methods of catching. The trials would be carried out by both for-
eign commercial vessels (trawlers and purse seiners) and GOI resource survey
vessels recently built under Indo-Norwegian Project in Goa. Indian counterparts
would be trained on board these vessels. Assurances were obtained that the
test fishing operations would begin by December 1977 and be completed by June
1979. The results of the tests would be communicated to GOG and to the private
sector. Quarterly progress reports, and final reports for each area, including
economic analyses, would be prepared. Results of the tests would be reviewed
by GOG and GOI. Assurances were obtained that IDA/Bank would be provided
promptly with copies of progress reports and the final reports (para 8.01(b)).
3.15      Marketing Study:  The project would finance a fish marketing study
covering fresh and dried fish. The study would aim at identifying bottlenecks
in fish marketing, developing solutions for overcoming them, and at assessing
future export and domestic demand for fish. Particular emphasis would be
placed on examining the problems of congestion and unsanitary facilities at
Bombay, as well as on the efficiency and equity of the pricing mechanisms. The
latter currently appear to be controlled by a relatively few traders. Terms of
Reference for the study would be prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture (GOI),
and the study would be carried out by the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmadabad or similar marketing research institution. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Terms of Reference for the study would be agreed with IDA,
and that the study would start not later than December 1977 (para 8.01(a)).
3.16      Consultants for Project Implementation:  The project would finance
consultants to assist in project implementation. About 50-man-months of
consultants' time, costing an average of US$8,000 per man-month for fees and
expenses, would be required as described in Annex 6 and summarized below:
Harbor engineer to assist GPD in reviewing design and tender
documents; coordinating the activities of local electrical/
mechanical engineers and the rock excavation specialist;
and supervising construction.
Rock excavation specialist to assist GPD in preparing speci-
fications and other documents relating to the procurement of
dredging equipment; and devising and implementing field trials
for drilling and blasting, etc., and determining optimum
methods for fragmentation of rock for dredging.
Fisheries resource management specialist to assist GOI in
preparing Terms of Reference for the test fishing operations
to be agreed with IDA/Bank, and in engaging a contractors to



- 11 -
carry out the tests, assessing the results of the test fishing
operations, and developing fisheries resource policies appro-
priate to these results.
Management specialist to assist FTD in establishing management
systems for its fisheries terminals and organizing fish auctions
at the Mangrol and Veraval terminals.
Further details of the Technical Assistance elements of the project are at
Annex 6.
Project Implementation
3.17      The project would be implemented over the five years, 1977 through
1981. A project implementation schedule is at Annex 7.
Project Beneficiaries
3.18      The major project beneficiaries would be entreprenuers prepared to
risk capital in marine fishing, a difficult and relatively risky venture.
For canoes and canoe motorization these would mostly be individual small fish-
ermen. For the 14.8 m MFV a wider range of individuals and entities would
be involved; but given the relatively large down payment required from the
entrepreneur, they would be corporate or cooperative entities or relatively
well-to-do individuals. GOG selection criteria gives the following order
of preference: cooperative and State undertakings; fishermen who have had
training in fisheries whether from a State or a Central institution, fisher-
men who have adequate experience; fishermen who have worked or who are work-
ing as boat skippers on other people's vessels; and demobilized Navy officers.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      With the exception of the test fishing surveys the project would
be carried out by GOG. Details of the more important agencies involved are
in Annex 11. The leading agency would be the State's Department of Agricul-
ture, Cooperatives, Forest and Fisheries (DACFF) in which a Project Supervision
Committee (PSC) would be established. PSC would be chaired by the Department's
Secretary. The Commissioner of Fisheries would be the Secretary of PSC and
would function as a full-time project coordinator. Membership would include
the Secretary, Ministry of Finance or his representative, the Commissioner of
Fisheries, the Director of Ports, and the Regional Director of ARDC. PSC would
be empowered to coopt other State officials as necessary, for example the Chief
Engineer, Department of Public Health (water supplies) and the Chief Engineer,
Gujarat Electricity Board. PSC would be responsible for organizing execution
of the project and would do this by delegating responsibilities to appropriate
state agencies. For example the Ports Directorate (GPD) would be responsible
for the construction of harbor improvements. A condition of effectiveness
would be that PSC had been established under the chairmanship of Secretary



- 12 -
of DACFF, with the Commissioner of Fisheries (GOG) as Secretary and project
coordinator (para 8.02(a)).
Gujarat Ports Directorate (GPD)
4.02      GPD would use as consultants India's Pre-Investment Survey of Fish-
ing Harbors (PISFH), a unit established with UNDP assistance and which has
designed the proposed improvements to Veraval and Mangrol (see Annex 1). To
supervise the work at both harbors, GPD would appoint a chief engineer and,
for Veraval, 3 executive engineers, 11 deputy engineers and 24 junior engi-
neers; for Mangrol where the amount of work would be substantially less, GPD
would appoint an executive engineer, 4 deputy engineers and 10 junior engi-
neers. In addition to the construction of harbor improvements, GPD would
continue to manage harbor services at Mangrol and Veraval. These would in-
clude: supervision of the use and maintenance of approach and entrance chan-
nels, navigation aids, and of all breakwaters, jetties, quays, and basins; con-
trol of vessel movements in basins and entrance channels; and the operation
of slipways. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that GOG would provide
by September 1977 the technicians and engineers needed to carry out the proposed
improvement at Veraval and Mangrol (para 8.01(d)).
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association (GFCCA)
4.03      GFCCA, more details of which are in Annex 11, would play an impor-
tant role in the project. Its functions would include (i) construction
of project financed 14.8 m MFV; it would construct all of these, unless and
until other local builders are able to meet GOG standards; (ii) importing the
outboard motors financed under the project; and (iii) assisting in obtaining
a supply of canoes for traditional fishermen (as it is difficult for indivi-
dual fishermen to organize the construction of canoes, GFCCA would act as
middle man between fisherman and constructor).
4.04      GFCCA, which has its head office at Ahmadabad, would also be a
direct beneficiary of the project insofar as the net making machines financed
under the project would be used in its factory, and it would be eligible for
project loans for the construction and operation of shore facilities, such as
ice and freezing plants at Mangrol and Veraval. It would also be eligible
for loans for the purchase of MFV to be sold under hire purchase agreements
to fishermen. GFCCA was established in 1956 as an apex institution for
fishing cooperatives. Currently it is engaged in a wide range of activities
including direct fishing; fish marketing, transporting, processing, storing,
freezing and exporting; fishing gear manufacture; MFV construction; and in-
land fisheries promotion. 60 cooperative societies constitute the Association
whose Chairman is the Commissioner of Fisheries. As of June 30, 1975, GFCCA's
authorized capital was Rs 5 million and paid-up capital Rs 1.6 million of
which Rs 1.4 million was contributed by GOG and Rs 0.2 million by constitutent
societies and individual fishermen.
4.05      Until 1973/74 GFCCA was burdened with accumulated losses for
several years. In that year, however, the Association was able to wipe out
these losses and earn a small profit. Although profits and losses have



- 13 -
always fluctuated widely, the main contributors to profits have been its boat
yard, marine engine and outboard motor sales, fish net factory, and inland
fisheries unit; the loss makers have been the freezing and ice plants which
are obsolete, and its trading operations in fresh and dried fish. GFCCA is
in need of considerable strengthening, both organizationally and financially.
A program for rehabilitation has been discussed with IDA, which was based on a
report prepared by ECOTECH Consultants Pvt. Ltd., Ahmadabad. During negotia-
tions, a rehabilitation program was discussed and agreed with GOG, ARDC and
GFCCA. The program which will be carried out over five years, includes the
establishment of suitable accounting, auditing, budgeting and inventory con-
trol systems and improvement of the Association's capital structure, the
strengthening of top management; and the engagement of qualified engineers
and a marketing manager. A schedule for implementation of the program was
agreed at negotiations. Assurances were given that GOG would reorganize
GFCCA in accordance with the proposal prepared by GOG in consultation with
ARDC and approved by IDA/Bank; GOG would retain qualified accountants to
maintain a sound financial system for GFCCA; and GOG would appoint additional
engineers and a marketing manager for this purpose (para 8.01(e)).
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd.
4.06      The Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd. (GSCB), together with commer-
cial banks, would provide credit to project beneficiaries. GSCB is the apex
body of the short and medium term cooperative credit structure in the State.
This structure consists of fishermen's primary cooperative societies (FPCS)
at village level, central cooperative banks (CCB) at district level and GSCB
at the apex. GSCB, whose membership consists of CCB and other State Coopera-
tive organizations throughout Gujarat, is in a sound financial position and
has an excellent recovery record. Since inception it has been generating
steadily increasing annual net profits (Rs 7.2 million for 1975), and a divi-
dend of 9% on share capital has been paid for the last two financial years,
1973/74 and 1974/75. GSCB is fully qualified to undertake its project role.
Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies (FPCS)
4.07      Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies (FPCS) would play a key
role in the traditional fisheries component (see Annex 5). These societies
are based on the existing social structure of the fishing villages and
usually the President of a FPCS is the village Patel or social leader. This
form of organization benefits from its linkage with the traditional village
structure, an important consideration given the risks of lending to fishermen.
Under the project, loans for canoes and outboard motors would be made to the
FPCS. In turn the FPCS would enter into hire purchase type arrangements with
the final beneficiaries, the fishermen. Under this arrangement ownership of
the item financed would remain the property of the FPCS until the loan was
repaid. FPCS would be affiliated to District Cooperative Societies. In
their establishment and management, FPCS would benefit from the assistance
and supervision provided by GOG, GSCB and the4r affiliates, and by ARDC. An
assurance was obtained that GOG would assist in the establishment and manage-
ment of FPCS in the project area (para 8.01(f)).



- 14 -
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
4.08      ARDC would be responsible for:  (i) refinancing loans made by GSCB
and commercial banks for MFV and shore installations, (ii) refinancing credits
made under the traditional fishermen component for such items as canoes, out-
board motors, and fishing gear; (iii) assisting participating banks and pros-
pective borrowers to prepare and evaluate investment plans; and (iv) assisting
GOG in the establishment and management of FPCS. ARDC would prepare a project
Banking Plan which is a standard feature of other Bank Group operations in-
volving ARDC, and it would be a condition of disbursement against the relevant
credit components that such Banking Plan was acceptable to IDA/Bank (para
8.03(a)). Lending terms and conditions are shown in Schedule A and would be
spelt out in a Refinance Agreement that would be concluded between ARDC and
the participating banks. At this time ARDC is operating most satisfactorily
in 26 IDA assisted projects in the agriculture sector 1/.
Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD)
4.09      A Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD) would be established under GOG
Commissioner of Fisheries (DACFF) to develop and manage the terminals at Man-
grol and Veraval. FTO would be responsible for all GOG owned land (except
that used by GPD) in the harbor area at Mangrol and the area allocated for
terminal development at Veraval. It would take over all existing GPD build-
ings at the two sites that are currently used to provide services to fisher-
men as well as new buildings for this purpose that would be constructed under
the project. These would be offices for the agency, the auction hall at each
harbor, and buildings designed to be used for canteens, gear sheds, and work-
shops. FTD would operate the auction halls itself but would lease the other
buildings to entrepreneurs wishing to provide services to fishermen. FTD
would also lease sites to entrepreneurs, private, public and cooperative,
wishing to construct facilities such as fish processing plants, freezing, and
fish storage plants and who would be eligible under the project for credit for
these purposes. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that FTD would be
established by December 1977 with the above powers; and, an assurance was also
given that GOG would cause FTD to charge amounts sufficient to enable FTD to
cover all operating expenditures and charges, including taxes, interest payment
on borrowings, and depreciation. In addition, an assurance was given that GOG
would furnish IDA/Bank by December 1977 a feasibility study on the deduction of
proceeds of fish sales at FTD for the repayment of loans (para 8.01(g)).
1/   For the most recent appraisal of ARDC see IDA Report No. 562a-IN:
Appraisal of ARC Credit Project, March 15, 1975. IDA Credit 540-IN
for US$75 million.



- 15 -
Central Coordinating Committee (CCC)
4.10      GOI involvement in the project mainly would be through a Fisheries
Project Central Coordinating Committee (CCC) that would be established in its
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation to establish policy for, to aid, and
to monitor this and similar projects. CCC would be chaired by the Ministry's
Joint Secretary for Fisheries, and the Deputy Commissioner for Fisheries
(Planning) would be secretary. Other members would include the Managing
Director of ARDC or his representative, and representatives of the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (GOI). Appropriate GOG
or other state representatives would be coopted as needed for consideration
of matters affecting the Gujarat project. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that CCC, with membership agreed with IDA/Bank, had been established
(para 8.02(b)).
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.11      A project monitoring and evaluation system (MES) would be set up in
DACFF to chase and report on progress in project implementation. Importantly,
however, MES would study the economic and financial results of different proj-
ect activities in order to provide information needed in the planning of future
projects. More details are at Annex 10. Special attention would be given to
obtaining reliable vessel production estimates and to relate these to vessel
numbers and to the extent of the fishing resource in order to identify any risk
of over fishing. Production surveys are already being carried out both by GOG
and Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) although staffing of
the former is weak and needs strengthening by the appointment of an additional
senior statistician and other staff. There would appear to be major benefits
in amalgamating or coordinating this type of work in Gujarat, since the objec-
tives of the two operations are similar, and such a possibility is being
examined. Assurances were obtained that a senior Statistician would be ap-
pointed to the Statistical Cell of the GOG Department of Fisheries by October
1977. A MES unit has been set up, and during negotiations assurances were
obtained from GOG that the unit would be adequately staffed to prepare reports
on the progress of project implementation (Annex 10); and three basic surveys
(Production, Fisherman's Households and Credit Recipients) would be carried
out by MES and that Terms of Reference would be made available to IDA/Bank for
comment by September 1977 (para 8.01(h)). Assurances were also obtained that,
by September 1977, GOI would introduce a mandatory fishing vessel registration
scheme for India as a whole as one of the means for better controlling resource
exploitation, and that this scheme would be applicable to Gujarat (para 8.01(i)).
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs including duties and taxes are estimated at Rs 341.7
million (US$38.0 million) of which about 30% would be foreign exchange. De-
tailed cost estimates which include duties and taxes estimated at about
US$2.4 million are given in Annex 8 and are summarized below:



- 16 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
(Rs M) ------   ------ (US$ M) -----                %
I.    Harbor Improvements
Mangrol        15.9      2.5   18.4       1.7      0.3    2.0        14
Veraval        63.0     19.8   82.8       7.0      2.2    9.2       24
Subtotal    78.9      22.3  101.2      8.7       2.5   11.2       22
II.   Shore Facilities
Mangrol         2.3       1.8    4.1      0.3      0.2    0.5       44
Veraval         8.7      9.8   18.4       1.0      1.1    2.1       53
Subtotal    11.0      11.5   22.5      1.3       1.3    2.6       51
III.  MFV
Mangrol        12.2       1.3   13.5      1.3      0.2    1.5         9
Veraval        34.8      3.6   38.4       3.9      0.4    4.3         9
Subtotal    47.0       4.9   51.9      5.2       0.6    5.8        9
IV.   Traditional
Fishermen
Component
Canoes          5.3      -       5.3     0.6        -      0.6
Motors, Nets
& Equipment    8.2       5.0   13.2       0.9      0.6    1.5       38
Trucks          0.4      0.1    0.5       0.1       -      0.1       20
Infrastruc-
ture         3.9       1.0    4.9      0.4       0.1    0.5       20
Subtotal    17.8       6.1   23.9      2.0       0.7    2.7       26
V.    Supporting
Equipment       0.4      0.9    1.3       -        0.1    0.1        69
VI.   Technical
Assistance      2.9     23.0   25.9       0.3      2.6    2.9        89
VII.  Total Before
Contingen-
cies          158.0     68.7  226.7    17.5        7.8   25.3       31
VIII. Contingencies
Physical       15.5      5.5   21.0       1.7      0.6    2.3       26
Price          65.8     28.2   94.0       7.3      3.1   10.4       30
Subtotal    81.3      33.7  115.0      9.0       3.7   12.7       29
Total
Project
Cost          239.3    102.4  341.7    26.5       11.5   38.0       30



- 17 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on May 1976 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies have been applied at appropriate rates and average about 9% of project
costs before contingencies. Price contingencies have been applied cumula-
ively as follows: for civil works and services 12% per annum 1977-79, 11%
for 1979 and 10% thereafter. For equipment cumulative rates of 8% annually
have been used until 1979 and 7% thereafter. Price contingencies account
for about 38% of base cost and physical contingencies.
Financing
5.03      Financing of project costs would be as follows:
IDA/
Borrowers    Banks      ARDC    GOI/GOG   Total  Bank
US$M  %     uS$M  %  US$M  %   US$M  %   US$M   US$M   %
1. Harbor
Improvement       -     -      -   -    -    -   18.6 100   18.6   9.0  48
2. Shore
Facilities      0.8   20    0.6  16   2.4  64   -    -        3.8   1.2  32
3.  Trawlers         1.5   20    1.2  16   4.9  64   -    -         7.6   2.6  34
4. Traditional
Fishermen
a. Canoes
motors,
trucks       0.3   11    0.4  16   1.6  62   0.3   11   2.6   0.8  31
b. Infra-
structure      -     -      -    -    -    -   0.8  100   0.8   0.3  38
Subtotal         0.3    9    0.4  12   1.6  47   1.1   32   3.4   1.1  32
5. Supporting
Services*       0.1   20      -   16   0.1  64    -    -    0.2   0.1  35
6. Technical
Assistance       -     -      -    -    -    -   4.4  100   4.4   4.0  91
Total            2.7    7    2.2   6   9.0  24  24.1   63  38.0  18.0  47
*    Figures and percentages may not tally due to rounding.
5.04      The proposed IDA Credit of US$4 million would be made on standard
terms, and the Bank loan of US$14 million would be made to GOI on Third Window
terms and would finance about 50% of project costs net of duties and taxes
(about 47% of total cost). The credit would cover the foreign exchange costs
of about US$11.5 million and about US$6.5 million or about 25% of local costs.
Lending Terms and Conditions
5.05      Project lending terms and conditions are detailed in Schedule A.
They follow current rates for institutional lending throughout India, includ-
ing lending financed under IDA Credits and Bank loan. Funds for harbor



- 18 -
improvements and other civil works would be on-lent to GOG in accordance with
GOI established policies for development assistance to GOG. IDA/Bank funds
for sub-loans i.e. for MFV, outboards motors, processing equipment and the
like would be on-lent from GOI to ARDC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARDC would relend to participating banks at an annual interest rate of 8%
minimum, for on-lending to final borrowers at not less than 11%. Security
for loans would be in accordance with arrangements agreed between ARDC and
the lending banks under a Refinance Agreement. ARDC refinance to lending
banks would not exceed 80% of individual loans. Loans for freezing complexes
at Mangrol and Veraval, and for the second block ice plant at Veraval would
be granted only after a thorough review of plant capacity requirements (see
para 3.07).
Procurement
5.06      Civil works for harbor improvements at Veraval comprising the con-
struction of breakwaters, quays, cofferdam and excavation (US$4.75 million)
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. Equipment (US$3.4 million) to be procured under
international bidding would include net making machinery, refrigeration equip-
ment for ice plants, cold stores and freezing units, as well as a rock dredger
and ancilliary equipment. Also subject to international competitive bidding
would be 1,400 outboard engines and spares (US$0.6 million) required for the
traditional fishermen component. In the case of equipment, exceptions to the
ICB proposed above would be small contracts or orders of less than US$100,000
which cannot be bulked. Of the total cost of items expected to be let on the
basis of international competitive bidding (US$8.75 million) about US$4.75
million is likely to be won by domestic bidders. For the civil works, domestic
contractors would receive a preference of 7-1/2%. For equipment, domestic
suppliers would be accorded the usual preferential margin equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the existing rate of import duty, whichever
is lower.
5.07      International competitive bidding is not considered suitable for the
mechanized fishing vessels and their engines (US$7.2 million) or for canoes
and gear, other than the outboard motors. The mechanized fishing vessels are
to be constructed to traditional design modified to customer specification;
such vessels are not normally internationally traded and customer preference
would be impossible if they were. Further, investigations indicate that
Gujarat prices for these vessels are reasonable although exact comparisons are
difficult to make. Consequently, the mechanized fishing vessels would be
purchased from GFCCA or other local private mechanized fishing vessels
builders according to customer preference. Inboard engines for mechanized
fishing vessels would be procured locally from two suppliers on the basis of
customer choice. It is considered inadvisable to insist on international
competitive bidding for these in view of potential problems with spare parts
and service for imported engines. Items procured with the proceeds of sub-
loans for fishing gear (US$0.9 million) would be according to customer demand
and preference, and as such, would not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding. Canoes (US$0.8 million) would be procured from local builders



- 19 -
constructing to traditional designs and standards. Contracts for civil works
for shore facilities (US$1.1 million) and for the traditional fishermen's com-
ponent (US$0.8 million) are to be spread over five years and scattered geo-
graphically, and, consequently, would be awarded to qualified local contractors
on the basis of local competitive bidding. Harbor improvement works at Mangrol
(US$1.6 million) are too small to be of interest to foreign bidders, and are
not considered suitable for international competitive bidding. Procurement
of these works would also be on the basis of GOG local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory.
Disbursement
5.08      Disbursement of the IDA Credit and Bank loan would be in accordance
with the following schedule:
i.   100% of foreigh expenditures or 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory price) on dredging
equipment procured under ICB, about US$1.4
million;
ii.   50% of expenditure, about US$7.9 million, on harbor
improvements and infrastructure in the traditional
fishermen component, excluding cost of supervision;
This would include civil works awarded under ICB;
iii.   100% of expenditure on consultants, about US$0.6 million.
iv.   90% of expenditure on the local marketing study and
test fishing operations, about US$3.4 million; and
v.   55% of ARDC disbursements against shore facilities,
vessels, canoes, outboard motors, fishing gear, trucks
and net manufacturing machines, about US$4.7 million.
This would include equipment purchased under ICB.
Disbursements under (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) would be against documents
certified by GOG and GOI. Disbursement under (v) would be made against
expenditure statements certified by ARDC; supporting documents would not be
submitted to IDA/Bank for review, but would be retained by ARDC and be avail-
able for inspection by IDA/Bank during project supervision. A schedule of
estimated quarterly disbursement is in Annex 9. Funds remaining in the Credit
and the Loan account following project completion would be cancelled unless
otherwise agreed between GOI and IDA/Bank.
Accounts and Audit
5.09      IDA/Bank funds would be disbursed by: (i) GOI for test fishing sur-
veys and consultants; (ii) GOG, for expenditures on harbor improvements and
GOG owned shore facilities, infrastructure improvement under the traditional
fishermen component, and consultants; and (iii) ARDC, for expenditures under
its refinance program for loans for fishing vessels, outboard motors, fishing
gear, shore facilities, transport equipment, and net manufacturing equipment.



- 20 -
Separate accounts would be maintained for all project expenditures. Accounts
under (i) and (ii) would be subject to the usual government control and audit-
ing procedures, which are satisfactory. Audited ARDC accounts are sent to
IDA/Bank each year as a requirement of on-going IDA/Bank projects, so that
no special arrangements for audit of its accounts for this project would be
required. As part of its refinancing agreements, ARDC requires participating
banks to maintain separate accounts for each approved scheme and to have these
audited, thus no special arrangements would be needed. Assurances were ob-
tained at negotiations that the above arrangements would be employed, and that
accounts under (i) and (ii) would be audited each financial year and the audit
report sent to IDA/Bank within four months of the end of that financial year.
Assurances were obtained that FTD would maintain separate accounts audited
and that such audited accounts would be sent to IDA/Bank within four months
of the close of each financial year. Given the importance of GFCCA to the
fisheries sector as a whole and to the project in particular, assurances were
also obtained that its audited account would be sent to IDA/Bank within four
months of the close of each financial year (para 8.01(j)).
Subsidies
5.10      GOG currently grants a number of subsidies to fishermen.  These
range from 22.5% on the total cost of MFV, to varying amounts of the costs
of items used in the traditional fishing sector, such as canoe hulls (7.5%),
sails and equipment (15%), nets (10%), outboard motors (Rs 400 or about 13%),
and fully equipped 9 meter canoes (Rs 2,700 or about 8%). GOG has agreed to
eliminate the subsidies on MFV as a condition of disbursement against this
component of the loan/credit (para 8.03(b)). The equivalent of the subsidy
would be made available by GOG as a loan for purchase of MFV on terms set in
consultation between ARDC and GOG. GOG intends, however, to retain subsidies
on motorized canoes and fishing gear, as the beneficiaries of these are among
the poorest sections of Indian society. This is consistent with the capital
grant assistance provided to small farmers by the GOI Small Farmers Develop-
ment Agency (SFDA). As traditional fishermen are a disadvantaged group and
the subsidies assist substantially in introducing new technology, in parti-
cular the use of outboard motors, the subsidy policy appears justified.
Eligibility criteria which, inter alia, limit the subsidy to one canoe per
beneficiary, are satisfactory, and the subsidy funds are channeled through
the banking system.
Boat Risk Fund
5.11      GOG is considering establishing a Boat Risk Fund to insure vessel
owners against losses. Few, if any, owners take out insurance because of the
relatively high cost of commercial coverage. Currently, annual premiums for
a MFV are about Rs 6,300 and does not cover partial loss. GOG proposes ten-
tatively that the Boat Risk Fund, which would include provisions for total
loss, and for the cost of repairs and replacements in excess of Rs 10,000 in
the case of partial loss, would be furnished in part by funds saved through the
abolition of subsidies on MFV. Such a fund could act as an incentive for in-
vestment in marine fishing operations, and in view of its potential importance
GOG provided assurances, during negotiations, that, it would prepare proposals
for the establishment and operation of a Boat Risk Fund which would be furnished
for the Bank Group's consideration by September 30, 1977 (para 8.01(k)).



- 21 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Production
6.01      At full development, project annual incremental output of fish
would be about 44,600 tons, including 3,700 tons of shrimp. At 1976 prices
the value of this catch to producers would be about US$8.1 million. It is
assumed that about 1,500 tons of shrimp and 2,000 tons of fish meal (equiv-
alent to 10,000 tons of fresh fish) processed in facilities financed by the
project would be exported for a total of about US$7.2 million.
Markets
6.02      Export market prospects for shrimp are excellent since world de-
mand is expected to continue to grow faster than supply; the world demand
for fish meal, as a livestock feed, is also very strong. India has developed
excellent export markets in Japan which now takes about 65% of India's fish
and fish product exports and the range of exports to Japan and elsewhere is
growing. Improved processing financed under the project should further
enhance India's export and competitiveness.
6.03      Over 30,000 tons of annual project induced production would be
consumed domestically. There are no firm data on demand for fish in India;
future demand for fish would be investigated as part of the project's market-
ing study (see para 3.15). However, GOI forecasts that the consumption of
fish by the fish eating population would increase from about 6.6 kg per capita
in 1975 to 11.0 kg in 1985, an annual growth of 6.5%. This forecast appears
realistic given past growth rates which averaged 8% over the last decade, ex-
pected increases in real income, and the growing awareness by the population
of the benefits of protein and of fish as a cheap source of protein. That
portion of the project catch consumed domestically would represent about
1.0% of estimated total fish consumption in India in 1985.
6.04      While the project would do relatively little to improve marketing
channels these are not foreseen as constraints. Project production is very
small in relation to demand and would develop gradually over five years.
It is anticipated that this production would be absorbed by the present sys-
tem which, while not necessarily the most efficient, has been able to deal
with the very steady and substantial growth in production that has occurred
in marine fish production in recent years in the project area.
Prices
6.05      Prices used for financial projections in this report are based on
average prices received by fishermen at landing sites in May 1976. Given
the anticipated growth in demand the use of these on a constant basis for
project calculations is reasonable. The prices are: shrimp Rs 8,960



- 22 -
(US$996)/ton, MFV caught fish Rs 837 (US$93)/ton and canoe caught fish
Rs 1,500 (US$167)/ton. The higher prices for canoe fish reflect the more
selective nature of the smaller scale canoe operation. In the case of
processing plants, export value for shrimp of Rs 41,400 (US$4,600)/ton is
used for estimating the benefits of the freezing complex while the price
of fishmeal Rs 2,400 (US$267)/ton is an average of export value (80%) and
local market values (20%). Prices used in project economic analysis are the
foregoing and are in line with Bank forecasts.
Financial Returns to Project Beneficiaries
6.06      Models of typical enterprises financed under the project are at
Annex 13. For investments in shore facilities financial rates of return
of about 36% are indicated for the ice plants, over 55% for the freezing
plants, and about 23% for the fishmeal plant. These returns are more than
sufficient to ensure adequate investor interest and competition for leases
in the fishery terminal areas.
6.07      For motorized canoe fishermen satisfactory financial returns are
indicated (about 30%). At 1976 prices annual operating income is estimated
to average Rs 8,600 for the owner of one of these vessels after payment of a
total of Rs 7,200 in wages for a crew of three. This would be adequate to
service a loan of Rs 26,300 under the terms proposed in Schedule A. During
the loan repayment period of seven years the debt service coverage would be
about 1.4. Incremental operating income consequent upon equipping a canoe
with an outboard motor is estimated at about Rs 4,200 annually giving a debt
service cover of 2.2 during the three-year repayment period proposed.
6.08      For MFV a financial rate of return of about 53% is indicated and
annual operating income of about Rs 84,000, after a wage bill of Rs 23,000
for a crew of six. During the proposed ten-year loan repayment period debt
service coverage would be a satisfactory 2.3.
Financial Returns to Government
6.09      Direct returns to GOG from project activities would be increased
harbor revenues from expanded fishing activities and the rents and other pay-
ments from leases let in fishing terminals. These benefits would be insigni-
ficant in comparison with GOG investment in harbor improvements at the two
project sites which would amount to about Rs 150 million. GOG has no plans
for recovering these costs through increases in harbor user charges or any
other mechanism. An in-depth review of policy governing this issue is re-
quired, not only for Gujarat, but for India as a whole given the need for
similar investments in harbor works elsewhere. As this would be the first
in a series of fishing projects promoted by GOI and for which Bank Group
assistance probably would be sought, the Bank has asked GOI to carry out
such a review by July 1978 as a condition of further Bank involvement in
fishing harbor and related projects.



- 23-
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's primary economic benefits would be:  (i) increased
fish catch of about 45,000 ton per year by project vessels; (ii) the enhance-
ment of the value of the project catch as well as some of the existing pro-
duction by processing in project facilities; (iii) the reduction of spoilage
made possible by provision of improved handling facilities and ice plants
under the project. The details of economic analyses and sensitivity tests
are given in Annex 14, and summarized below.
7.02      The largest project investments are those in harbor improvements at
Veraval and Mangrol and account for 44% of total project costs. Assuming that
the only benefits of the harbor improvements would be the catch of the project
vessels that are expected to make use of these harbors, the estimated economic
rate of return is 18% for Veraval and 16% for Mangrol. A composite return has
been calculated for the traditional fishermen component which accounts for
about 10% of project costs. The benefits of this component would comprise
the catch of 280 project canoes and the incremental catch resulting from the
402 existing canoes that would be motorized under the project. The economic
costs attributable to these catches would be the full cost of project canoes
and outboard motors, and part of the investments in infrastructure, such as
sheds, access road and water supply system. The estimated economic rate of
return based on this is about 53%. Estimated economic rates of return for
other principal investment items are:
MFV                                48%
Motorized canoes                   31%
Outboard motor               over 60%
Ice and processing plants       45-59%
Fishmeal plant                     33%
Freezing plant                     60%
The estimated overall rate of return is 24%.
7.03      The main risk involved in the project is that the catch rates of
vessels using Mangrol and Veraval might decline, because of possible over-
fishing, to levels inadequate to justify the investments in harbor improve-
ments. As shown in Annex 14 the rate of return on investments in harbor
improvement is quite sensitive to decreases in benefits. This risk is con-
sidered minimal, however, given the conservative catch rates used in proj-
ect calculations and that existing resource data show that the planned in-
crease in MFV numbers at Mangrol and Veraval would not over tax the resource.
Under the project, measures would be introduced to monitor the resource and
to control the number of vessels permitted to fish (para 4.12).
7.04      The project would have substantial employment benefits providing
about 3,500 new jobs (1,900 on MFV, 1,100 on canoes, and about 500 in shore
establishments). Most of these people would come from the fishing community
where incomes are low and unemployment and under-employment are serious prob-
lems. About another 3,500 fishermen would benefit from using the improved



- 24 -
harbor facilities and from the motorization of canoes, and some 10,000 people
living in the eight project fishing villages would benefit from infrastructure
improved under the project.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) The design and capacity of the freezing complexes for Mangrol
and Veraval would be reviewed by ARDC; and the proposed second
block ice plant for Veraval would be prepared and reviewed by
ARDC by June 1981 (para 3.07);
(b) GOI would begin the two test fishing operations by December
1977 and complete by June 1979; copies of all quarterly
fishing operations shall be furnished to IDA/Bank (para 3.14);
(c) GOI would begin the marketing study by the Indian Institute
of Management, or similar institution, by December 1977 and
complete by March 1979; and terms of reference for the
marketing study be prepared by GOI satisfactory to IDA/Bank
(para 3.15);
(d) GOG would cause GPD to appoint qualified technical staff by
September 1977 to carry out the proposed improvement at
Veraval and Mangrol (para 4.02);
(e) GOG would: reorganize and strengthen GFCCA in accordance
with the proposal prepared by Gujarat in consultation
with ARDC and approved by IDA/Bank; retain qualified
accountants to maintain a sound financial system for
GFCCA; and appoint additional engineers and a marketing
manager (para 4.05);
(f) GOG would assist in the establishment and management of
FPCS (para 4.07);
(g) GOG would: establish FTD by December 1977 to manage the
fisheries terminals, lease land and buildings to entre-
preneurs for project related work, and operate auction
halls; ensure that FTD would have adequate land necessary
to carry out these operations; cause FTD to charge amounts
sufficiently to enable FTD to cover all operating expendi-
tures and charges, including taxes, interest payment on
borrowings, and depreciation; and furnish IDA/Bank a fea-
sibility study by December 1977 on the deduction of part
of the proceeds of fish sales for the repayment of loans
obtained by fishermen from participating banks (para 4.09);



- 25 -
(h) GOG would: appoint a senior statistician by October 1977
to DACFF; ensure that the project monitoring and evaluation
system in DACFF is adequately staffed to prepare reports on
the progress of project implementation; consolidate produc-
tion, fisherman's households and credit recipients survey;
and furnish IDA/Bank Terms of Reference for these surveys
by September 1977 (para 4.11);
(i) GOI would institute a mandatory fishing vessel registra-
tion scheme by September 1977, which would be applicable
to Gujarat (para 4.11);
(j) GOG and GOI would ensure separate accounts for the proj-
ect and such accounts would be audited in accordance with
procedures set out in para 5.09; and
(k) GOG in consultation with ARDC would furnish IDA/Bank a
proposal for establishing a Boat Risk Fund by September
1977 (para 5.10).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) Establishment of PSC under the chairmanship of Secretary
of DACFF, with the Commissioner of Fisheries as its
Secretary and project coordinator (para 4.01); and
(b) Establishment of CCC, whose membership has been agreed
upon with IDA/Bank, by GOI to provide policy guidance
(para 4.10).
8.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) For credit component provision by ARDC of a Banking
Plan satisfactory to IDA/Bank (para 4.08); and
(b) Discontinuation of subsidies to fishermen on MFV
(para 5.10).
8.04      Subject to these conditions, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$4 million and a Bank loan of US$14 million under Third Window
terms.






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used to imple-
ment the project and would not be changed without prior agreement with IDA/
Bank.
IDA to GOI
Normal IDA/Bank terms and conditions.
GOI to GOG
(a) To finance construction of fishing harbors at Mangrol and
Veraval, to provide improved facilities for fish landing,
berthing area for fishing vessels, slipways, service sta-
tions, harbor amenities, navigation lights, auction hall,
oil bunkers, drainage, water, lighting, etc. including
staff training and consultants in accordance with GOI
established policies for development assistance to GOG.
GOI to ARDC
For ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years:
(a) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(b) repayment at the end of 9 years; and
(c) borrower to carry exchange risk.
ARDC to Participating Banks
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 8% to Participating Banks;
(b) installment repayments based on repayment schedule to coincide
with agreed collection dates from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) ARDC to refinance Participating Banks by loans not exceeding 80%
of individual loans.



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) to GFCCA, cooperatives and private entrepreneurs:
(i) relending is for the construction and equipment of ice,
freezing and fish processing plant, ice and fish storage,
provision of trucks and two fish net manufacturing
machines;
(ii)  a loan ceiling of 80% of the cost of equipment and civil
works;
(iii)  annual interest rate not less than 11%;
(iv)  repayment period not exceeding 9 years from the date of
each withdrawal; and
(v) ultimate borrowers to have capital and staff considered
adequate by ARDC to operate the facilities.
(b) to cooperatives and fishermen:
(i) relending is for the purchase of mechanized trawlers;
(ii)  annual interest rate of not less than 11%.
(iii)  repayment period not exceeding 9 years from the date of
each withdrawal;
(iv)  a loan ceiling of 85% of the purchasing cost; and
(v) existing trawler owners are not eligible for this financing.
(c) to cooperatives and fishermen:
(i) relending is for the procurement of 9 meter canoes with out-
board motors and fishing gear and for outboard motors only
for existing canoes;
(ii)   a loan ceiling of 92.5% of the cost (90% for provision of out-
board motors only);
(iii)  annual interest rate of not less than 11%; and
(iv)  repayment period not to exceed 5 years (3 years for
outboard motors only) from the date of each withdrawal.



SCHEDULE A
Page  3
General
(a) ARDC and Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts for
each of the above schemes and GFCCA and FPCS shall maintain
accounts satisfactory to ARDC;
(b) Security and insurance to be in accordance with arrangements
between Participating Banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC to refinance Participating Banks only after determining
that the completion of agreed items of development is critical
to project implementation;
(d) ARDC to advise IDA/Bank prior to inviting bids for the acqui-
sition of equipment and contracts for civil works where such
bids are subject to international competitive bidding under
the Schedule to the Gujarat Project Agreement;
(e) all application for refinancing having total investment costs
in excess of $500,000 equivalent, together with appraisal re-
ports and all other other relevant data, to be forwarded to
IDA/Bank for final approval;
(f) loans may be rescheduled, if necessary and in agreement with
ARDC, in the event of natural calamities resulting in wide-
spread fish famine or closure of fishing operations for more
than 100 days between the months of April and October in any
calendar year;
(g) all fish landings from trawlers registered at Mangrol and
Veraval shall be sold through their action halls, and shall
be weighed and records maintained of catch and prices of each
class and variety of fish;
(h) repayments from ultimate borrowers under paragraphs (a) and (b)
above shall be made from fish sale proceeds on regular weekly
basis or when repayments are made according to established
practices of Participating Bank and/or ARDC; and
(i) where vessels are purchased under hire purchase agreements through
GFCCA or FPCS, such institutions shall be permitted to retain an
interest margin not exceeding 0.5% to meet hire purchase costs.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Marine Fisheries
A.   Introduction
1.        Continental India lies roughly between 8 and 370N Lat. and between
680 and 97%E Long. It has about 5,650 km of c2astline and a continental shelf
area (to a depth of 200 m) of about 415,000 km , of which about 68% is on the
west coast.
2.        The climate of India and oceanographic regime of adjacent seas are
dominated by two monsoon seasons, southwest and northeast. the southwest (wet
monsoon) lasts from May to September; winds are strong and may reach a force
of Beaufort 10 on the west coast. The northeast (dry monsoon) lasts from
November to March; winds are less strong, reaching Beaufort 5.5 on the west
coast. During the southwest monsoon, surface currents in the Arabian sea
and Bay of Bengal move in a clockwise direction; in the northeast monsoon
they move in a counter-clockwise direction. Associated with the southerly
along shore current on the west coast during the southwest monsoon, there is
also an offshore component of movement. As a result, subsurface water moves
onshore and towards the surface. This water is not only colder than the sur-
face layer, but also has an extremely low oxygen content which is so low that
fish and shrimp cannot survive in it. Thus, when such water reaches tradi-
tional trawling grounds, fish and shrimp must move to more favorable waters
and catch rates fall to zero. On the other hand, catch rates of pelagic fish
may improve as fish are trapped in an increasingly thinner layer of water
between air-sea interface above and colder, oxygen deficient water below.
3.        Gujarat, the most northwesterly State, lies roughly between 200 10'
and 240 40' N Lat. and between 680 10' and 740 30' E Long.  It has a coast-
line of 1,500 km marked by Gulf of Cambay and Gul5 of Kutch, and a continen-
tal shelf area (to a depth of 200 m) of 99,373 km
B.   Resources
4.        About 75% of India's present catch of marine fish is produced on
the west coast (Arabian Sea) of India which has about 70% of the continental
shelf area. The catch of pelagic species in the past has substantially ex-
ceeded the catch of demersal species, but in recent years the catch of
demersal species has been increasing and the catches of the two groups are
now about equal. Most catches are made inside the 35 fa depth line and
very few are made beyond the 50 fa line. A 1973 estimate of potential
annual catch of resources beyond the 35 fa depth line of demersal, pelagic
and mid-water resources of Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Andra



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Pradesh was placed at 2.3 million tons.  In view of the largely unfished re-
sources, this estimate seems to be conservative. According to an estimate
made by the National Commission of Agriculture (1976), production of marine
fish could be increased to 3.5 million tons per annum. While this estimate
may be realistic, more data on resources would be required to confirm it.
C.   Production
5.        During 1975, fishery production in India was 2.4 million tons of
which 0.8 million tons were fresh water production and 1.6 million tons were
marine production; in 1974, India ranked 7th in relation to all other countries.
Since 1950, the average annual increase in fishing production has been about
62,000 tons or at a compound rate of about 4% (Table 1).
6.        Fishery production in Gujarat in 1975, was about 199,000 tons of
which about 188,000 tons were of marine origin and about 11,000 tons were
of fresh water origin. Since 1960, (prior to 1960 Gujarat was not a State
and statistics for earlier years are, therefore, not available) average
annual increase in production has been about 8,000 tons or at an average
rate of 6.5% (Table 2)..
7.        During 1962-75, productivity per fisherman increased by 50% from
2.8 tons to 4.2 tons per year. This development has been brought about by
extensive activity on the part of GOI and State Governments and an active
private sector, particularly in the processing of export products and in
domestic marketing. Government (at both Central and State levels) has
been particularly active in: (a) stimulating mechanization; (b) providing
infrastructure including harbors and ice plants; (c) providing credit facil-
ities; (d) carrying out research in fishery biology, product development
and exploratory fishing; and (e) providing training facilities. GOI has
expended or budgeted on fisheries through the 5th Plan in excess of Rs 2,800
million. The private sector has been particularly active in developing
shrimp fishery and shrimp processing (primarily freezing) for the export
market. Mechanization (starting in 1947), introduction of trawling, exist-
ence of shrimp resources and access to highly profitable export markets for
shrimp have been key factors in the growth of the fishing industry in India.
8.        The catch and effort statistics for mechanized boats in Gujarat
show a classical pattern of fishery development that also has been exper-
ienced elsewhere. In the early years there are few boats and catch rates
are relatively high. As more and more boats enter fishery, catch rates per
boat decrease. The decline from higher catch rates to lower catch rates
occurred in the 1960's. The relationship between catch and effort in this
particular situation is such that the entry of additional boats now will
have relatively little effect on catch rates. By the time there are about
1,500 mechanized boats, the catch rate will be reduced by about 10% from
the present rate when there are slightly more than 1,250 boats, and by the
time there are 2,000 boats, catch rate will be reduced by about 15% from
the present rate. However, these rates are based on insufficient information
and should be examined as more and better data become available.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
D.   Fishermen
9.        The 320,000 fishermen of India, who live in 1,805 villages (191
in Gujarat) belong to a variety of ethnic and religious groups. They are
in the lower level of the economic and social structure and possibility,
for upward mobility is generally slight to non-existent. while the liter-
acy rate of India as a whole is about 30% and in Gujarat about 36%, amongst
fishermen in Gujarat it is only about 5% and in some fishing communities
it may drop to 1% or less. Government (both Central and State) is attempt-
ing to raise the standard of living of fishermen through a wide spectrum
of development activities, as well as by increasing educational and health
facilities.
E.   Landing and Shore Facilities
10.       Landing facilities range from unimproved beaches with no facilities
to protected harbors with ice plants, processing plants, fuel docks, shipyards
and other related facilities. The main fish landing points in Gujarat, with
varying degrees of development, include Veraval, Porbandar, Mangrol and Okha.
In addition, there are 17 other principal landing points (annual landings in
excess of 100 tons) in Gujarat and 191 fishing villages. Some villages are
not served by roads, and, generally, the development of landing facilities
has not kept pace with the rate of mechanization, and increase in production
and has led to congestion and waste. Any increase to the mechanized fleet
without corresponding increase in landing and shore facilities would aggravate
the situation.
11.       The numbers and capacities of ice making plants, cold storages,
freezing plants, frozen stores, boat building yards, fuel docks and engine
repair shops in Veraval, Mangrol and all Gujarat are shown in Table 3. About
half of ice making capacity, three-fourths of cold storage capacity and all
of freezing and frozen store capacity are in Veraval.
F.   Marine Fishery Research
12.       Marine fishery resource research in India is carried out primarily
by the Central Government, secondarily by State Governments and to a very
minor degree by universities. The Central Government fishery institutions,
including those receiving technical assistance from abroad, are: (a) Deep
Sea Fishing Organization (established in 1946) which was renamed Explora-
tory Fisheries Project (1974); (b) Central Marine Research Institute (1947);
(c) Indo Norwegian Project (1952) which subsequently became the sole respon-
sibility of GOI and was renamed the Integrated Fisheries Project (1972);
(d) Central Institute of Fishery Technology (1957); (e) National Institute
of Oceanography (1966); and (f) UNDP/FAO Pelagic Fisheries Project (1971).
The geographic center of fishery research is Cochin, where headquarters
of (b), (c), (d) and (f) are located. Fishery research in Gujarat is the
responsibility of Gujarat Department of Fisheries, but Exploratory Fisheries



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Project, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute and Central Institute
of Fishery Technology also have substations in Gujarat.
13.       The Exploratory Fisheries Project (EFP) has operated over the
entire coast line, while the Integrated Fisheries Project has worked largely
off Kerala and southern Tamil Nadu, and the Pelagic Fisheries Project has
worked off Kerala and Karnataka. Possible additional fishing surveys in
future include a UNDP/FAO survey off Tamil Nadu and a Polish/Indian survey
off Gujarat and northern Maharashtra. GOG has carried out a survey off
Gujarat.
14.       EFP is located in Bombay, with four additional bases on the west
coast, including one at Kandla, and six on the east coast. It operates
30 vessels; 20 of 17.4 m, five smaller and five larger. Its function, as
the name indicates, is primarily exploratory fishing.
15.       EFP has carried out trawl fishing in Gujarat since 1948.  From
1948 through 1973 it fished for about 11,000 hours. over 80% of this
effort was in the areas off southwest Gujarat (Veraval) and southeast
Gujarat (Jafrabad) in the 20-39 m depth zone. On the basis of this work,
GOI estimated that in the 0-40 fa depth zone between 200 and 23 N there is
a standing stock of about 225,000 tons of demersal species with a potential
annual yield of about 112,500 tons or about 40% more than the demersal catch
in 1972 and 1973. This estimate is also conservative.
16.       The Central Marine Fishery Research Institute (CMFRI) headquarters
is in Cochin, with 42 out-stations of varying rank including one in Veraval.
CMFRI is part of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) but has
been handicapped by lack of vessels. The objectives of CMFRI are to:
(a) estimate catches of marine fishes and other animals
throughout the year by different types of vessels and
gear;
(b) conduct research on marine fisheries resources in order
to increase production to the maximum;
(c) locate new fishing grounds, conduct environmental studies
in relation to fisheries, increase production through
mariculture; and
(d) recommend measures for rational exploitation of marine
resources.
17.       Work has been carried out by CMFRI in all of these areas.  One
important accomplishment was the design and implementation of a sampling
system to obtain catch and effort statistics for India. CMFRI has conducted
demersal resource surveys, studies biology of commercially important species,
stock assessment studies, work on the relation of environmental changes to
variations in yield of certain fisheries and work on prawn culture.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
18.       CMFRI has 42 physical establishments, including headquarters in
Cochin, a regional center in Mandapam Camp, 8 substations, 4 research units
and 28 survey and research centers located around the coastline and in the
Laccadive and Andaman Islands. Mandapam regional center, which was origin-
ally the headquarters site, and the substations, are concerned with regional
fisheries and problems. Research units are concerned with sub-regional
matters. Survey and research centers are concerned with local matters,
including collection of fishery statistics. Survey and research centers and
research units are administratively responsible to substations which are in
turn responsible to headquarters.
19.       Present GOI policy calls for increased attention by GMFRI to achieve
results of more immediate and practical application as well as of importance.
Since CMFRI is the main fishery research organization in India and is the
repository of existing fishery information, it is expected that personnel
associated with Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh fish testing surveys (Annex 6),
including those supplied under technical assistance, would work closely
with CUFRI.
20.       The Integrated Fisheries Project, also located in Gochin, has
14 vessels with seven of 17 m or larger. it has done work in a variety
of fields and particularly in exploratory fishing in deeper waters off
Karnataka, Kerala and southern Tamil Nadu. Promising resources have been
discovered, but these have not been brought into commercial production.
21.       The Central Institute of Fishery Technology (GIFT) headquarters
is in Cochin, with seven out-stations, including one in Veraval. GIFT
works in the areas of vessels and gear technology and processing technology.
22.       The National Institute of Oceanography is located in Goa.  It is
concerned with oceanographic studies not necessarily of direct application
to fishery problems.
23.       The UNDP/FAO Pelagic Fisheries Project, also located in Cochin,
operates two vessels. It has discovered important resources of several
species of pelagic fishes, but these have not yet been brought into pro-
ductIon. A second phase of the Project, about to commence, will concentrate
on the practical development of these resources.
24.       The Gujarat Marine Biology Research Station is located in Okha.
It operates six vessels; three vessels of 49 and one of 58 are based at
Okha and operate to depth of 30 fa; two steel vessels of 57' are based at
Porbandar and operate in depths of 30 to 35 fa. Trawl surveys carried out
by these vessels have helped the trawl fishery of Gujarat to become estab-
lished and to expand. The Research Station also carries out some process-
ing technology and recent work has been done on fish protein concentrate
production.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
25.       Improvements are being made by GOI in the area of marine fishery
research by reorienting programs to more practical development ends and by
improving operational efficiency.
26.       In spite of information available from fisheries themselves and
from exploratory surveys, additional information is needed to plan the ex-
pansion of Gujarat fisheries into more offshore fishery resources. There
is the possibility of a Polish - Indian survey (which will cost India
Rs 8.0 million in direct costs) off the shelf area from Bombay north to
the Pakistan border.  However, the ship to be used is a 60 m stern trawler,
1,650 hp engine, 300 tons frozen storage capacity, fish meal plant with
capacity of 15 tons (wet weight)/day.  Such a vessel is too large, produc-
tion costs are accordingly high leading to high product prices; landings
will be too large leading to reduced market prices and, in general, it will
be difficult to interpret the results of such a survey in the form of a
meaningful economic feasibility study for boats of the sizes likely to be
used by India.
27.       There is need for a survey of demersal, pelagic and mid-water
resources not presently utilized. This will require use of both a stern
trawler and a purse seiner, each manned and operated by commercial fishermen,
for a period of at least one year. Such a survey should provide information
on the kinds of resources present, their distribution over space and time,
how they can be caught and at what catch rates, all integrated in the form
of economic feasibility studies of indicated kinds and sizes of vessels
(Annex 6).
28.       Apart from Gujarat, the only area of the Indian coastline which
has not already been surveyed or is not due to be surveyed in the near future,
is the area lying north of Madras including especially the coast of Andhra
Pradesh. Since the fishery harbor preparation report for Andhra Pradesh
is almost completed, GOI requested that a survey of fishery resources be
provided for this area. The requirements are identical with those for Gujarat
(Annex 6).
G.   Training and Extension
29.       Fishery training in Gujarat is provided by the Department of Fish-
eries through its Training Centers. There are Marine Training Centers in
Veraval and Bulsar and an Inland Training Center in Ukai.
30.       The Veraval Center offers five expanded courses, four of which
last 12 months. These include: (a) shore mechanics for five trainees (an
engine repair shop is operated in conjunction with this course); (b) engine
driver for five trainees; (c) craft and gear for five trainees; (d) fishing
secondhands for 25 trainees; and (e) fish processing and preservation for
ten trainees (which lasts six months). There are about 155 applicants for
these courses. Matriculation is a requirement for entrance. In addition,



ANNEX 1
Page 7
there are two other training courses at Veraval. One is a general course
in fishing for boys who have finished fourth standard (15-16 years of age).
This course lasts 10 months and can accommodate 15 trainees; there are
about 100 applicants per course. The other is a course for girls in fish
processing and handling; this course lasts three months, ten trainees per
course can be accommodated and the course is given three times per year.
31.       The courses in Veraval are carried out in two separate facilities,
one in the harbor area, and the other on two 45' training trawlers. There
are plans for a new facility in the harbor complex. The center at Bulsar
offers a general course in mechanized fishing; 30 trainees can be accommo-
dated and the course lasts ten months.
32.       In addition to training activities carried out by GOG, there are
also training activities carried out by GOI. Especially important is the
Central Institute of Fisheries Operatives (CIFO) in Cochin, established in
1963. A unit of CIFO was established in Madras in 1968. CIFO offers seven
courses: (a) fishing secondhands; capacity for 40 trainees in Cochin and
40 in Madras, 15 months duration; (b) engine drivers, 40 + 40 trainees,
15 months; (c) radio telephone operators, 10 + 10 trainees, 9 months; (d)
gear technicians, 20 + 10 trainees, 9 months; (e) boat building foremen,
20 trainees Cochin only, 15 months; (f) shore mechanics, 20 trainees, 12
months; and (g) teachers training, 10 trainees, 6 months.
33.       The Department of Fisheries has no Extension Division as such,
but in fact extension activities are carried out by Fishery Officers and
other Departmental personnel stationed in fishing areas. These activities
include especially dissemination of information about recent advances in
fishery matters, and information on subsidies and other forms of Government
assistance.
Fishing Harbor Development
34.       PISFH is a self-contained unit with the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation (GOI), with headquarters at Bangalore. It was established in
January 1968 with UNDP technical assistance for identifying potential harbor
sites for the operation of fishing vessels drawing more than 1.2 m, UNDP
technical assistance ended in December 1972 but PISFH also received technical
assistance from the Swedish International Development Authority between
January 1974 to June 1976. PISFH has conducted pre-investment investigations
at seven sites and has prepared feasibility reports including preparation of
detailed designs and drawings for six of them. The unit is headed by a
Director who is an engineer and four Deputy Directors, of which three are
engineers who have been trained and have experience in harbor engineering.
The other Deputy Director is an economist who is assisted by an Assistant
Director (economist) and two economic investigators to conduct economic
investigations, evaluation and preparation of reports. The engineering staff
included in further four senior and six junior engineers, draftsmen, and a
unit for carrying out sub-oil investigations. Total strength is 57.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Export Promotion of Fishery Products
35.       MPEDA was established in 1972, by an act of Parliament, in the
Ministry of Commerce, succeeding the Marine Products Export Promotion
Council which was established in 1961. The function of MPEDA is to promote
development of marine products industry with special reference to exports.
In order to carry out this function, MPEDa is given wide authority including:
(a) developing and regulating off-shore fishing (beyond
40 fathoms);
(b) registering fishing vessels, processing plants,
storage facilities and conveyances;.
(c) fixing export standards;
(d) rendering financial or other assistance to owners
of fishing vessels, processing plants, storage
facilities and conveyances;
(e) inspecting marine products;
(f) regulating export of marine products;.
(g) improving export marketing;
(h) registering exporters;
(i) collecting and publishing statistics; and
(j) training.
The activities of MPEDA thus far include marketing, product diversification,
collection and publication of statistics, improvement of quality including
establishment of standards and provision of infrastructures (a 1,000 ton
-30 C cold store is under construction in Cochin).
3.        MPEDA Board of Directors consists of a Chairman and Director,
both appointed by GOI, representatives of GOI, State Governments, and of
various parts of the fishing industry. MPEDA also has a Secretary appointed
by GOI, an elected Executive Committee, Export Promotion Committee, and
Technical Committee. MPEDA headquarters are in Cochin and regional offices
in Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin and Madras.



GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Growth of Indian Fisheries, 1950-1975
Catch l                                  Number of       Number         Tons              Ekport
Fresh                       Catch        Mechanized        of            per                                         value as %
Year             Marine       Water       Total            Value/2       Boats /2      Fishermen/3  Fisherman          Weight A       Valuea    of total exports/S
_ _ _ _ _      (1,000 t)  - - - -         (Rs M)                                                      (l,0oo t)       (Rs N)
1950               580         237          817                                13                                        19.7           25
1951               533         218          751                                                                          22.2           33
1952               528         216          744                                                                          24.8           38
1953               581         238          819                                                                          30.9           44
1954               588         240          828                                                                          28.6           47
1955               596         243          839                               963                                        24.o           39
1956               718         29h        1,012                                                                          18.1           37
1957               875         358        1,233                                                                          22.8           46
1958               756         309        1,065                                                                          30.7           59             0.70
1959               584         239          823                                                                          33.7           62             1.02
1960               879         282        1,161              820            1,296        229,354        3.8              16.3           40 -           0.63
1961               684         277          961              920                                                         17.3           4]             0.62
1962               644         330          974              910                                                         11.6           37             0.55
1963               656         390        1,046            l,O10                                                          7.9           59             0.76
196h               86o         h60        1,320              150                                                         21.5           68             0.84
1965               824         507        1,331            1,320            3,045                                        15.5           69             0.86
1966               889         478        1,367            i,460                                                         19.2          135             1.15
1967               863         537        1,4oo            1,630                                                         21.8          199             1.65
1968               904         622        1,526            1,840            6,458                                        24.8          221             1.67
1969               914         693        1,607            2,100                                                         30.6          331             2.40
1970            1 ,C,86        670        1,756            2,160                                                         37.2          355             2.34
1971            1,162          690        1,852            2,560                                                         34.o          392             2.48
1972              971          666        1,637            3,34C                                                         38.3          58]             3.13
1973            1,210          748        1,958            5,570            9,300                                        48.8          796             3.51
1974            i,472          733        2,255            9,370           10,126                                        46.4          763             2.41
1975           *1, 562        *808      *2,368            11,940           10,886        317,642        4.9              54.5        1,049             2.91
17  1950-64 Jhirigran (1975), FAO Yearbook Fishery Statistics Vol.22; 1965-73 FAO Yearbook Fishery Statistics Vol.36, 1974-75 Ministry Agriculture
and Irrigation.
/ Ministry Agrilculture and Irrigation; 1960 = 1960-61, 1961 = 1961-62, etc.
3/ Ministry Agriculture and Irrigation, 1950-74.
/ 195U-74 Marine Products Export Development Authority (1974); 1975 NPEIU; 1950 - 1950-51, 1955=1955-56, 1956=April-December 1956.
R Xs per US$: pre-6 June 1966*4.76; 6 June 1966 to mid-December 1971-7.50; mid-December 1971 to end June 1972.7.28; after end June 1972 floating.
WPEDA
(TCK  Jura 2L. 1976)
* Provisional estimate.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
IDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Growth of GuJarat Fisheries, 1960-1975.
Catch                 Total      Number of boats      Number
Year                                       value                              of
Marine     Fresh      Total                Non-mech.    Mech.    fisher-
water/i                                                 men
 - - - -(1,000 t)           _  (Rs M)
1960      79.4        na        79-.4       20.8    2,099          131          -
1961      80.5       _          80.5        21.2    2,246          152      11,732/3
1962      82.7        _         82.7        24.8    2,491          163          -
1963      85.0      0.1         85.1        24.9    2,740          223          -
1964      89.0      0.2         89.2        28.8    2,843          355       15,1U0
1965     109.9       8.9       118.8        40.3    2,853          370          -
1966     115.2      11.0       126.2        42.0    2,887          425          -
L967     124.9     10.2        135.1        52.3    3,099          489          -
196e     131.7      11.3       143.0        57.6    3,410          543          -
1969     139.0     11.3        150.3        64.0    3,569          618          -
1970     146.7      12.2       15%L9        78.1    3,874          755          -
1971     147.8.    13.4/2      161.2        98.5    4,080          945          -
1972     152.1      14.6/2     166.7       105.4    4,208          865       24,416
1973     167.8      15.9       183.7       168.6    4,404          923          -
1974     164.4      10.8       175.2       160.8    4,652        1,032          -
1975     187.8      11.0       198.8       200.8    4,971        1,263          -
/ 1961 - 70 from Jhingran (1975).
i/ Interpolated
Source: GOG Department of Fisheries except as noted
(JCM:mbw June 24, 1976)



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Existing Ancillary Facilities in Ports & Landing
Places, Gu.Jarat as of June. 1976
Other        Total
Facilities                        Veraval      Mangrol        Ports        Gujarat
Ice making plant        No.              12             7           17             36
t/day           155            31          121            307
80 C Storage depot      No.               9             -            7             16
t/day         1,300             -          470          1,770
Freezing plant           No.              3             -            -   ,          3
t/day           42             _            _             42
-l80 C Storage           No.              3             -            -              3
facilities            t/day           750             _            _            150
Boat building yard /1    No.              1             -            7              8
Boats/year        90             -          100            190
Fuel dock oir station    No.              1             1            1              3
Engine repair shop        No.             4             2            4             10
Fish meal plant           No.             1             -            -              1
t/day           50                    -     -             50
raw material
1/ A aumber of boats are also built outside of boat building yards.
Source: GOG Department of Fisheries and mission observations.
(JCM:mbw  June 24, 1976)



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Fishing Harbor Facilities
A. VERAVAL
Description of Existing harbor
1.        Veraval is situated on the south west coast of Saurashtra Penin-
sula and is about 300 km south by sea from Bombay. It is connected by meter
gauge rail to the Ahmedabad - Bombay and the Ahmedabad - Delhi main railway
lines. The tidal range at spring tides is 2.4 m.
2.        Veraval port was initially developed in 1920 by the construction
of two basins with a depth of 2.5 m at low water giving a landing quay of
about 570 m in length. A vertical face breakwater 330 m long was subse-
quently constructed to provide protection from the monsoon. During the
1930s a further 340 m of wharf of the same depth was constructed as the
first stage of an inner harbor on the northern side of a creek about 400 m
to the east of the original development. At the same time, a small dry
dock and workshop facilities were constructed. Around 1950, a further 200 m
of wharf was constructed in the inner harbor to cater for sailing vessels
handling limestone, bauxite, etc. In the early 1960s a development for
fishing vessels was carried out on the south side of the creek. It comprised
a trawler quay 185 m long with 60 m wide berth deepened to 5 m below low
water, a boat wharf of the same length opposite the trawler quay on the north
side of the creek, a landing wharf 300 m long and 2.5 m deep and a reclaimed
land area of about 12 ha. A plan of the existing facilities is shown in
Chart 16633.
3.        There is a relatively small amount of littoral drift along the
coast and about 30,000 tons of sand and silt are dredged each year, prin-
cipally at the entrance to the inner harbor and from the channel and basins
near the trawler quay. Minimum depths of about 2 m at the trawler quay
and 0.3 m at the landing quay are maintained. As there are no significant
streams discharging into the inner harbor this situation probably arises
from sand transported along the coast by the swell (principally in the mon-
soon) and the transport of some fine material by the nearby Hiran river
which is carried in suspension into the harbor during the monsoon.
4.        The commercial activities of Veraval port, amounting to a total
of about 350,000 tons per annum, consist of export of cotton, raw wool,
onions, oilcakes, groundnuts, and limestone, and import of sulphur and fer-
tilizers. Movements are mainly by lighters from ocean-going ships, the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
lighterage wharves being those nearest to the breakwater. These wharves
are also used by fishing vessels and there is a considerable amount of con-
gestion.
5.        Gujarat Ports Directorate (GPD) owns an old steam-powered dipper
dredger, bottom-dump barges and tugs. Regular maintenance dredging up to
about 30,000 tons per annum hopper measure is carried out, but is frequently
impeded by dredger breakdowns.
6.        To the south east of the quays, further up the creek, there is an
area of about 10 ha which dries out at low water and which is used by fisher-
men for beaching their boats during the monsoon and at other times when the
boats are not being used. This area is crossed by a causeway, which gives
access to the area used by fishing vessels, and which incorporates a swing
bridge to allow vessels to pass. At the further end of the creek is the
boat-building yard of the Gujarat State Fisheries Central Cooperative Asso-
ciation (CFCCA). Private boat building activities, on a smaller scale,
are also carried out along the creek.
7.        Existing harbor facilities are inadequate for the present scale of
fishing operations. Quay length is insufficient, the back-up area for fish
auction halls, etc. is too small, access to the harbor is restricted at low
water and during even moderate seas, and there is a lack of proper slipway
facilities.
Improvements to be carried out under the project
8.        General description.  Improvements to be constructed would comprise
the following:
(i) extension of the existing breakwater by a length of 334 m
to a total length of 664 m.
(ii) construction of a lee breakwater 500 m long and reclamation
of 7.5 ha of beach;
(iii) construction of landing and bunkering quays 535 m long;
(iv) construction of open berthing jetties of total length 1,120 m
(both sides);
(v) deepening of entire fishing harbor area to 3 m below low
water;
(vi) excavation of an entrance channel 45 m wide varying in depth
from 5.5 m at the harbor entrance to 4 m at the existing
trawler quay;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(vii)   construction of a slipway with a transfer cradle capable of
accommodating a total of 12 vessels of up to 28 m long and
28 vessels up to 20 m long (or 60 vessels up to 15 m long);
(viii) construction of an elevated high-level footbridge across the
fishing harbor along the line of the existing causeway and
swingbridge; and
(ix) construction of roads, paved areas, buildings, navigation
aids, etc.
9.        Site and other investigations.  In order to design the works the
following investigations have been or are being carried out:
(i) Wave records. The original design for the harbor was
based on a design wave height of 4.9 m, the same as has
been adopted at Porbandar, 120 km to the north west where
a harbor is under construction. This wave height was cal-
culated by reference to storm records but is low when com-
pared with ships observations of actual wave heights in the
area. Scientific wave records are now being obtained at
Okha, 200 km to the north west, and a wave rider buoy has
been installed at Veraval for the 1976 monsoon. GDP has
undertaken to obtain records of wave heights observed
at Bombay High oil field, about 200 km to the south west,
and to revise the design wave height in the light of these
results (para. 10).
(ii) Land survey. A land survey of existing facilities was
carried out in 1973 by a theodolite traverse, and closure
was checked across the entrance channel by triangulation.
Orientation was determined by compass bearing. The survey
has not been related to a grid and, although not essential,
it is desirable that this is done before work commences.
(iii) Marine survey. A hydrographic survey was carried out in
December 1973 by echosounder. Lines were at 50 m spacings
and depths were checked from time-to-time by lead line. The
sea-bed levels in places varies rapidly, a maximum difference
of 5.5 m in about 30 m having been observed.
(iv) Boreholes. 23 boreholes have been sunk by GPD. Boreholes
Nos. 12 to 23, in the outer harbor and approach channel were
sunk in 1961 and Nos. 1 to 11, in the inner harbor in 1974.
The boreholes were carried out using a rotary core drill and
rock cores have been retained and are available for inspection.
There are some discrepancies between the sea-bed levels shown
on the 1961 borehole logs and the hydrographic survey, but
these can be explained in some cases by siltation between 1961



ANNEX 2
Page 4
and 1974 and in other cases by errors in the horizontal
position of the boreholes which, coupled with the uneven
nature of the sea bed, can give significant level differences.
The discrepancies do not significantly affect the validity of
the estimates as the entire quantity of channel dredging in
the area concerned has been assumed to be rock and the quanti-
ties calculated from the hydrographic survey.
(v) Trial Pit. To obtain further insight into the difficulties
of carrying out the inner harbor construction in the dry be-
hind a cofferdam a trial pit was excavated during appraisal.
The hole filed with water to about mid-tide level fairly
rapidly, but there was no significant variation of water
level with tide. This indicates that, although the ground
is saturated, there appears to be no open fissure network,
and confirms the experience gained during construction of the
trawler quay that there should be no major difficulties in
keeping the area dry during construction.
(vi) Materials. At present, concrete aggregates and road stone for
Veraval come from a quarry at Keshod (about 50 km) but it is
proposed to open a quarry at Ankara where similar outcrops of
basalt occur. This site is 26 km by road from Veraval, of
which 5 km is unsurfaced.
(vii) Wave penetration model. Tests were carried out on a 1:150
scale model of the harbor at the Central Water and Power
Research Station at Pune to determine a suitable arrangement
of the breakwater to give an acceptable degree of wave at-
tenuation within the harbor. The alignment of the breakwaters
in the project is based on the results of these tests, which
are fully described in specific note 1498 of July 30, 1975
prepared by the Research Station.
(i) Breakwaters
10.       (c)  Design criteria.  The original design wave for the break-
waters was 4.9 m, but this will be reassessed in the light of further infor-
mation now being obtained (para 9). Even with better wave climate data in
the area, a conservative approach should be adopted and the breakwater de-
signed for minimal damage during a storm of a probability of not less than
once in 50 years. This is because the costs of breakwater repairs are par-
ticularly high in the case of a small port, where heavy plant for repair work
cannot be easily mobilized. (Project estimates used in this report are based
on allowing for a design wave of 7 m).
(ii) Lengths of quay
11.       It is difficult to be precise about the length of quay needed for
servicing fishing vessels as fishermen seem generally quite happy to moor



ANNEX 2
Page 5
their boats several deep alongside one another for landing fish and out-
fitting and to do these tasks without any major loss of efficiency.
12.       Estimated total number of trawlers at the end of the project
period (1981) is 700 most being of the 14.8 m long type. There are two main
landing times a day, the evening period being more protracted than that of
the morning. As a proportion of MFV are always inoperative, it is estimated
that 360 will need to be serviced at any one time. The landing period is
estimated at three hours and assuming that on average it takes 20 minutes
to offload a MFV and thus that there is a 30-minute off loading cycle 6 MFV
could be serviced per boat space and a total of 60 spaces needed.
13.       It is proposed at completion the existing length of quay of
185 m would be increased to 620 m by adding 345 m of new landing quay and
90 m of outfitting quay. As the outfitting quay would be used for loading
and unloading at different times, about 480 m of quay would be available for
unloading. 30 MFV 14.8 long could be accommodated with a 1 m gap between
them. Double banking, with berthing parallel to the quay, would suffice.
In the alternative 60 boats, if moored low, could be accommodated in 240 cm
of quay. Therefore there would be ample room for loading and unloading,
with longer fueling and watering time, and shorter service time.
14.       For trawlers to tie up to during intervals between fishing trips,
7 double-sided jetties 80 m long would be provided. Each jetty would be able
to take 10 trawlers single banked, but as the width between jetties would be
53.5 m six deep berthing would be possible and accommodate a total of 420 MFV.
This would be rather more than half the total number of MFV expected by 1981
though tight should be adequate in the fishing season. During the monsoon,
when all the trawlers will be in the harbor, it would not be possible for them
all to tie up at the berthing jetties, but the quays could then be used and MFV
could also moor in the manoeuvering areas.
15.       An area is available for future expansion of the fishing harbor
south east of the road at the south east of the site (Chart 16633). This
could provide another 5 ha of water area, enabling another three jetties to
be constructed, accommodating another 180 trawlers.
(iii) Depths of basin and channels
16.       The berthing basin and the landing and outfitting quay basin would
be dredged to 3 m below chart datum, the MFV quay area to 4 m, and the en-
trance channel would be dredged progressively deeper towards the harbor
entrance where it is 5.5 m.
17.       The trawler quay area was excavated to full depth when the harbor
was constructed and only the removal of soft silt is needed. The majority
of material to be removed from the other areas is rock.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
18.       Mean low water of spring tides is at +0.24 m, and a study of the
tide tables shows a lowest-predicted tide for 1976 of -0.04 m and two other
tides of -0.01. Hence, 93% of the low tides are, above +0.2 m and 68% above
+0.5 m.
19.       Of the vessels which would use the fishing harbor, the 14.8 m ves-
sels have a draught of 1.7 m and the 23 m vessels 2.6 m. The dredged depths
are, therefore, adequate for accommodating 23 m vessels and for allowing
them to use the entrance channel at lowest low water and under monsoon condi-
tion with a swell of up to 3 m.
20.       Although at the outset the proportion of 23 m vessels using the
harbor will be small, the extra cost of providing depths to accommodate ves-
sels of this size is considered justifiable in view of the great difficulty
and cost of deepening later, the need for the harbor to act as a refuge, and
increase of time between occasions it will be necessary to carry out mainte-
nance dredging.
(iv)  Slipway
21.       The slipway would be  provided with a tilting bridge and transfer
cradle to serve 6 repair bays, 60 m long and 14 bays 50 m long. Each bay
would be able to accommodate a maximum of 3 vessels at a time, (the vessel
requiring longer-term repair occupying the inner portion), so that up to 60
vessels could be repaired simultaneously. Assuming major repairs takes 8-10
weeks and minor repairs 4-5 weeks, this envisages an average of one-and-a-
half slippings and unslippings per day. The peak rate would be around twice
this, but there should be no difficulty in achieving this, as the 14.8 m
boats can be moved at most states of the tide.
22.       A theoretical maximum of around 500 boats per year could, there-
fore, be served by the slipway, or an average for each vessel of about once
every one-and-a-half years. In addition to the slipway, a landing beach
would be funded where minor bottom repairs, painting, etc., could be carried
out. Areas would be made available for this on the protected beach outside
the harbor or on the reclaimed land to the west of the slipway.
23.       Slipway capacity is similar to that planned for other fishing har-
bors on the west coast of India. It is designed for an all up weight of cra-
dle plus vessel of 200 tons which corresponds to a vessel length of around
28 to 30 m. A vessel of such length would have to be slipped with great care
as the maximum keel length that can be supported on the cradle is 15 m,
although fishing vessels can be slipped with appreciable overhangs at the bow
and stern. Although this size is significantly greater than the vessels which
are planned to use the harbor initially, it is prudent to design the slipway
for a capacity that may be needed in the future.
24.       The depth of water at the lower end of the slipway rails is ade-
quate to enable a vessel drawing 3 m to be slipped on most days of the year.
It should be possible to trim larger vessels to achieve this.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Project Implementation
(a) Design
25.       Design and tender documents have been prepared by GPD.  With
the exception of the aspects shown in the Appendix 1 which have been taken
up with GOG, they are satisfactory:
(b) Supervision
26.       GOG proposes to employ the following staff in supervision of project
construction: 1 chief engineer (who would also be in overall charge of the
Mangrol project); 3 executive eng4neers; 11 deputy engineers; 24 junior engi-
neers; and accountants, clerks, supervisors, etc. It is proposed that these
staff should be drawn from GPD and GOG Public Works Department. Experience
requirements for the engineers would be that they are graduates in the relevant
branch of engineering and should have not less than 3, 10 and 15 years experi-
ence respectively in ports and harbors construction for the post of deputy
engineer, executive engineer and chief engineer respectively. Recruitment
of this establishment, particularly for the senior position, would be coor-
dinated with the construction schedule to ensure that adequate supervision
is available from the commencement of project works.
28.       Technical assistance would be provided to the project engineering
team in the following areas: (i) preparation of detailed designs for the
slipway; (ii) general supervision of the project; and (iii) underwater rock
dredging. The proposed assistance is described in more detail in Annex 6.
(c) Execution of Works
29.       Rock excavation.  Rock excavation would be carried out by GPD as
the quantities involved are small (about 100,000 cm) and are at such a shallow
depth that the value of contract would be too small to interest an international
contractor. GPD has a dredging unit comprising a dipper dredger and bottom
dump barges but the dredger is virtually at the end of its useful working life
and it would not be practicable to attempt to excavate this quantity of rock
with it. A small drilling barge and tugs are also available.
30.       GOG has been contemplating the purchase of a replacement dipper
dredger but preliminary enquiries have indicated that its cost would be
too high. Furthermore, a dipper dredger is a relatively inflexible tool in
that it cannot readily be adapted to work at greater depths than these for
which it is designed and the cost of a dredge increases very substantially
with ability to dredge at greater depths. Consequently, new grab dredger
would be acquired under the project. Such a dredger is relatively cheap, and
can easily be adapted to work at greater depths as may be required at other
ports. Additional drilling equipment would also be needed and obtained under
the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
31.       Other work.  The remainder of the work would be carried out by
contractors employed through international competitive bidding. Hence,
although ICB would be used it is unlikely that foreign firms would be inter-
ested or competitive. There are a small number of firms in India with the
experience and resources to carry out such a project, but a much larger number
would be able to carry out the work satisfactorily, largely using intermed-
iate techology, if help were provided in terms of major items of construction
plant and engineering advice and if the work were properly supervised and
controlled. Such a firm is engaged in the construction of the breakwater at
Porbandar and, although at the start of the contract the rate of progress was
slow, it is now reported to be adequate. The quality of work, although not as
high as one would expect from an international contractor, appears adequate for
the purpose.
32.       In anticipation that domestic contractors will eventually win the
contracts of the works, GDP proposes to invite tenders from all contractors
in their Class A list. It would appear that preselection would be a wise
course of action to limit bidders to those with experience of similar proj-
ects, a reasonable level of resources and experience particularly with regard
to plant, and a good record of completion of substantial projects within pre-
scribed time schedules.
(d) Construction program:
33.       GPD has prepared a critical path program for works construction.
It assumes approval for the scheme by April 1, 1977, tender awardes by Sep-
tember 1, 1977, and completion of the marine works by April 1981. This program
allows one month between scheme approval and issue of tender documents, three
months for the tender period, and one month for appraisal of tenders and award
of contract. Given suitable preparatory work, terms of the first two items
is adequate, but it is unlikely that appraisal and award will occupy less than
three months.
34.       The proposed sequence of operations is generally in order and the
output needed to complete each activity within the scheduled time should be
attainable by a reasonably competent contractor working under good supervision.
35.       The main problem during construction would be maintenance facilities
for the fishing fleet during the construction period, both as regards normal
fishing operations and the provision of an adequate area of sheltered water to
act as a harbor of refuge if a cyclone strikes outside the monsoon period.
The plan, as proposed by GOG, was for the inner harbor to be constructed
within a cofferdam running across the short path between the western end of
the south wharf and the south east corner of the commercial utilities wharf.
This cofferdam would be opened for a period before and after each monsoon, and
the areas flooded temporarily to allow boats to enter, beach, and be sheltered
from the monsoon. This plan would have the following disadvantages: (i) it
would prevent the south wharf being used during the construction period for
fishing activities and the east side of the commercial wharf and the north



ANNEX 2
Page 9
wharf for commercial activities; and (ii) the sheltered area available for
fishing boats as a harbor of refuge would be inadequate and damage to boats
would be likely to occur if a cyclone arose outside the monsoon season.
36.       A more practical arrangement would be for a main cofferdam to be
constructed from the east end of the south wharf to the east end of the north
wharf, and a subsidiary cofferdam on the original line to be closed only
during the monsoon. GOG has accepted the proposal and project cost esti-
mates have been amended to allow for this. Adoption of the plan should not
involve any significant change in to the construction period.
B. MANGROL
Description of existing harbor
37.       Mangrol is a small fishing village about 40 km to the north of
Veraval. It is served by road but has no rail access. Existing facilities
consist of a vertical-faced breakwater 150 m long with a landing quay on the
inner face providing partial shelter to a water area of about I ha, and a
small land area with a few buildings. During the monsoon, fishing boats have
to be hauled up onto the land and the time taken for this is considerable, the
first boat having to be hauled up rather more than a month before the onset of
the monsoon and the last boat launched a corresponding time after the close of
the monsoon.
Improvements to be carried out onto the project
(a) General description
38.       The new facilities to be constructed would comprise the following:
(i) extension of the breakwater by a length of 250 m;
(ii) formation of a tidal basin about 190 m by 70 m, and to
a depth of 2.5 m below low water, faced with 385 m of ver-
tical face quay for landing, outfitting and berthing.
(iii) formation of a protected beach for canoes; and
(iv) formation of a land area of just over 2 ha for fishing
related activities;
(v) construction of roads, paved areas and navigation aids, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(b) Site and other investigations
39.       In order to design the work the following investigations have been
or are being carried out:
(i) Wave records
Information regarding wave heights is not so important as at
Veraval as the breakwater is in water of a depth that limits
the wave height to 4.9 m (or less in the case of the lee
breakwater), thus the design of breakwater sections has been
based on the maximum wave that can occur at that point.
(ii) Land and marine survey
A land and marine survey was carried out in August 1974
covering about 15 ha land and 25 ha water. It adequately
covers the project area.
(iii) Boreholes
7 boreholes were sunk in the area in 1972 and 1973 and
show that the entire area is rocky.
(iv) Materials
An existing quarry at Keshod, which is about 30 km from
the site by road, can produce basalt suitable for the
secondary armour and core material for the breakwater.
(v) Wave penetration model
Tests were carried out at the Central Water and Power Research
Station at Pune on a 1:150 scale model of the harbor to deter-
mine a suitable arrangement of breakwater and width of en-
trance to the inner basin to give an acceptable degree of
wave attenuation. The harbor layout is based on the results
of these tests, which are fully described in specific notes
1518 and 1499 of November 15 and July 31, 1975.
(c) Design criteria
(i) Size of basin
40.       The total number of trawlers at the end of the project period is
estimated at 165. The length of landing quay is 140 m, so 9 14.8 m trawlers
can moor alongside, or 18 if double banked. Assuming each space can ser-
vice 6 boats during a three hour landing operation, as at Veraval, a total
of 108 boats can land during the morning or evening landing period. Similar
considerations apply to the outfitting quay.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
41.       For berthing, lengths of quay of 160 and 33 m have been pro-
vided, which would be capable of accommodating 12 trawlers at a time
alongside or 50 end on. If all the quays are used for berthing these
figures increase to 22 and 85. The width of the basin will allow an
ultimate packing of boats 8 deep along quays at two sides so the entire
fleet could, in an emergency, berth within the sheltered basin. Normally,
however, a substantial proportion will be at sea or can moor in the lee of
the breakwater, but it is clear that 165 is about the practical upper limit
to the number of boats than can operate at Mangrol. The depth of the basin
and entrance channel is 2.5 m which is adequate.
Project implementation
(a) Design
42.       Design and tender documents have been prepared by GPD.  The same
comments as on the Veraval documents, see Chart 16634, apply to concrete
mixing, construction plant and contractual matters (para 25). Apart from
these, the documents appear adequate.
(b) Supervision
43.       GOG has proposed an establishment to carry out day-to-day super-
vision of the project as follows: 1 executive engineer; 4 deputy engineers;
10 junior engineers; and accountants, clerks, supervisors, etc. These would
work under the Chief Engineer in charge of Veraval.
(c) Execution of works.
44.       Rock Excavation: The amount of rock excavation at Mangrol is small
and would be carried out by the unit established for dredging the Veraval
entrance channel. It would be done at a time convenient to the construction
program of both projects, bearing in mind the needs of the commercial opera-
tions at Veraval as it would require the full time services of a tug.
45.       Other Work: The same procedures would be adopted as at Vera-
val (para 31).



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation
(i)  Concrete mixing:  The specifications for concrete mixing should
be amended to require weight batching rather than volume batching;
(ii) Foot bridge: The designs and documents should be amended to
ensure that access to the two ends of the foot bridge, crossing
the fishing harbor, is obtained from outside the port area;
(iii)  Temporary cofferdam construction;  The documents should be
amended to require the contractor to construct temporary coffer-
dams in such a way that, except during the monsoon, vessels are
allowed free access to the commercial utility wharf and the
majority of the north and south wharves.
(iv) Slipways: The documents should allow for the supply and install-
ation of the cradle, tilting bridge, and mechanical and electrical
equipment to be carried out by a nominated subcontractor.
(v)  Construction plant:  The documents should be amended to ensure
that procurement of those items of plant proposed to be ordered
by GPD for the purpose of the contract, which the contractor
needs to use, become entirely the contractor's responsibility.
This can best be achieved by requiring the contractor to purchase
the plant for amounts stated in the documents, if necessary
giving the contractor (against the security of the plant) an
advance of up to 90% of the value of the plant, repayable by
deductions from progress payments, and, if necessary, undertaking
to repurchase the plant at a fair value when no longer required.
(vi) Contractual points:
a)   The documents preclude release of foreign exchange. This should
be altered to allow for international competitive bidding; and
b)   The documents should be amended to require the contractor to
insure the works.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Shore Facilities and Services
1.        The project would provide a range of shore facilities as described
below:
Veraval
2.   (a)  Refrigeration complex:  This would include two 200 t/day block ice
plants with 400 tons of storage of -2uC each, storage for 150 tons of iced
fish at +2 C , a freezing plant for 18 t/day of shrimp and frozen storage at
-25C for 500 tons. A stand-by generator would be provided for the frozen
fish store to ensure that there would be no large fluctuations in fish temper-
ature due to disruptions in electricity supply. Ice plants would be installed
in project years 3 and 5. Ice would be used in the auction hall for icing
fish on landing, and during processing and transport of fish. About 2 tons of
ice per ton of fish retailed wet would be used during handling and transport.
About 50% of the fish would be handled in this manner. Fishermen, who at
present use ice only on trips of 2-3 days and over, are expected to increase
their use of ice under the project. In this they would be encouraged by
fishery officers from GOG Department of Fisheries. Some ice would also be
used for transport of fish from villages included in the sub-project. The 18
t/day freezing plant, which would be based on horizontal plate freezers, and
include an iced fish store would be installed in year 4. The frozen store
operating at -25 0C, which would be erected as part of the freezing complex,
would also be completed in year 4.
(b) Fish meal plant: A fish meal plant of 75 t/day raw material would
be provided and this would be operated by the private or cooperative sector.
There would be sufficient raw material available in year 4 to give 70% utili-
zation of the plant although fish dryers and fish meal manufacturers would
have the same pool of raw material. The plant would be erected in year 3.
(c)  Auction hall:  A 8,250 m  auction hall would be provided.  The floor
would be graded to allow wash-water to drain, and the surface would be smooth,
durable and easily cleaned. Stand pipes for wash-water would be supplied
at frequent intervals along the hall. Weighing machines would be installed
and a market container system introduced by Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD)
in consultation with project consultants.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d)  Offices:  Offices would be provided for the Fisheries Terminal
(FTD) and also for Gujarat Ports Directorate (GPD) staff necessary to operate
the berthing system and maintain buildings and services.
(e) Canteen: A canteen for fishermen and personnel involved in the
shore terminal would be provided. This would be leased to an operator in
the private sector.
(f)  Gear shed:  A 2,250 m  gear shed would be provided and space would
be leased to vessel owners by FTD. The shed would be an open structure.
(g) Water supply: 2,000 t/day is included in the project. This would
be piped from the new municipal supply from Hiran Dam due to be completed in
1977.
(h) Electricity supply: The supply would be increased from 20 MW to
40 MW and sufficient power would be available for the project and future
developments.
(i) Drainage: Adequate drainage would be provided for the terminal
area.
(j) Drying areas; Surfaced areas would be provided and leased to fish
dryers by FTD.
(k)  Security:  The terminal area would be completely fenced in.
(1) Roads: Surfaced roads would be provided around the terminal facil-
ities and sites.
(m)  Workshop:  A workshop ot masonry construction would be provided
This would have an area of 12QO m and would provide accommodation for 6-8
engine repair companies. The workshop would be leased out by FTD.
(n)  Fuel supply:  Sites for fuel supply stations would be leased to
recognized oil companies by FTD.
Mangrol
4.   (a)  Refrigeration complex;  The refrigeration complex at Mangrol would
include a 75 t/day block ice plant with 200 tons of ice storage at -2 C,
freezing plant for 10 t/day of shrimp, frozen storage at -25 0C, and fish
storage for 100 tons. A stand-by generator with a capacity of 32 kw would
be provided for the frozen store. The refrigeration complex would be in-
stalled in year 4.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b)  Auction hall:  A 1,950 m  auction hall would be provided. The floor
would be suitably graded to allow wash-water to drain and the surface would be
smooth, durable and easily cleaned. Stand pipes for wash-water would be sup-
plied at frequent intervals along the hall. Weighing machines would be
installed and market containers introduced by FTD.
(c) Offices: Offices would be provided for FTD and GPD staff.
(d) Canteen: A canteen for fishermen and terminal personnel would be
provided. This would be leased to an operator in the private sector.
(e)  Gear shed:  Two 200 m  gear sheds would be provided and these would
be leased to vessel owners by FTD.
(f) Water supply: A pipe would be laid from the municipal main to give
a supply of 245 t/day.
(g) Electricity supply: A 66 kv line would be run into the port area.
Adequate power would be available.
(h) Drainage: Adequate drainage would be provided in the terminal area.
Ci) Drying areas: Surfaced drying areas would be provided and leased
to fish dryers by FTD.
(j) Roads: Surfaced roads would be provided for facilities in the
terminal area.
(k)  Workshop:  A 240 m  workshop would be provided for mechanical and
electrical repairs. This would be leased out by FTD.
(1) Fuel supply: Sites for fuel supply stations in both ports would be
leased to recognized oil companies by FTD.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Marine Fishing Vessels
Vessels
1.        Marine fishing vessel designs have evolved in different parts of
India and Gujarat according to local sea and wind conditions.  Original
designs were of sailing vessels, but these have been modified, or new designs
have been introduced by institutions such as the Central Institute of Fishery
Technology (CIFT), the Indo Norwegian Project, and FAO. It has been proved
that locally manufactured vessels function well under local conditions while
designs introduced from other areas or as de novo designs may not be compati-
ble with local sea and wind conditions. Also local construction permits minor
modifications to be incorporated in response to owner needs.
2.        Most of the larger, mechanized fishing vessels (MFV) are built at
thle Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association (GFCCA) boatyard in
\'eraval.    This yard has standardized on a 14.8 m vessel (just below the
size requiring certificated personnel under the Indian Shipping Act of 1958)
which is based on indigenous design. The MFV costs Rs 93,000 excluding the
engine. These have rugged wooden hulls made from trees from Gujarat forests.
There are other individual boat builders, but their standards fall short of
levels recently introducted by GOG.
3.        While vessel designs are appropriate for local operating condi-
tions, changes in equipment probably would result in higher catch rates. For
example, on trawlers, greater capacity winches and a more powerful main engine
would enable the trawlers to fish deeper, haul a larger trawl and/or haul
faster. On gill netters, power haulers would permit one or two more sets of
the nets per fishing period. On an experimental basis GFCCA should i) equip
some trawlers with 100-110 hp engines and with 1,500 ft drum capacity winches,
and ii) some gill netters with power net haulers. Winches and net haulers
should be powered by the main engine with a mechanical clutch linkage.
Engines
4.        GFCCA installs 88 hp Ashok Leyland Engines (for which they are the
local distributors), but 87 hp Ruston Engines are also available. The Ashok
Leyland (water cooled) sells for about Rs 88,000 while the Ruston (air cooled)
sells for about Rs 105,000. These engines have been produced in India for 15
years by what were originally joint venture companies. Imports of similar
engines are prohibited. Both companies, which also manufacture and sell truck
engines, have good distribution systems. Engines, spare parts and servicing
facilities are readily available throughout India and Gujarat. These engines
are priced competitively and are exported.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Gear
5.        A basic hull design of 14.8 m is rigged as a trawler-cum-gill netter.
Trawlers have a double spool winch mounted just forward of the house, which is
powered by the main engine through a mechanical clutch. Each spool has a
1,200 ft capacity of 3/8 in wire rope. However, ordinarily only 1,000 ft is
used, since this is the length in which wire rope is commonly supplied. Thus,
at a scope of 5:1, 30 fathoms is about the maximum depth to which these boats
can fish. Ropes are led aft in customary manner through sheaves on both sides
to gallows frames on the after deck at the stern. Fish holds are insulated
with 2 in of polystyrene covered by 1/2 in of wooden sheathing which in turn
is covered by a sheet of galvanized iron or fibreglass. Engine and winch
controls are on the bridge, along with engine instruments. There is no com-
pass. There are usually one or two bunks in the bridge, as well as access to
the engine room immediately below. The house also contains a toilet and space
for a small galley.
Trawling
7.        Nets used for trawling are large bag-shaped, constructed of syn-
thetic monofilament, with large mesh in the wings and small mesh in the cod
end of the bag. The net "size" is considered to be the length of head rope,
which is roughly the width of the mouth opening. The most common sizes of
nets are 18, 20, 23, or 25 m, with 23 m being the most common. When nets are
towed, usually at about 2 knots, the mouths are held open by otter boards or
doors between the towing warps and net bridle. A tow usually lasts about
1-1/4 hours and about 5 tows are made per fishing day. On one-day trips, on
which no ice is carried, when the net is emptied on the deck, trash fish are
separated from more valuable shrimp and fish. Valuable species are placed in
the fish hold, while trash fish are left on deck. Trash fish are species for
which there is no market for direct human consumption because of their small
size or other undesirable features. In order to catch shrimp, the most
valuable component of the catch, it is necessary to use small mesh in the cod
end and trash fish appear as a by-catch. On landing, valuable species are
off-loaded first and trash fish last. Trash fish are generally sun-dried,
although there is one fish meal plant in Veraval making international grade
(65% or more protein) fish meal for export from trash fish. Sun-dried fish
are ground to make fish meal. This has about 45-55% protein and is used in
India as a component of stock feed. Some is exported to Iran. On trips
longer than one day, ice is carried and usually trash fish are discarded at
sea in favor of using hold space for more valuable species. Trawling is
carried out by day. Boats making one-day trips leave port early in the
morning and return late in the afternoon.
Gill Netting
8.        In contrast to trawlers, most gill netters fish at night, leaving
port late in the afternoon and returning early in the morning. Gill nets,
of synthetic material, are constructed in units 4-5 fm deep and 20 fm long.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Forty units are fished at one time. There are plastic floats at the top
and weights (stones) at the bottom, balanced so that the float line is at
the surface when the net is set. Buoyed flags are used to mark the position
of the net and to provide flotation. Mesh size varies from 4-1/4 to 5 in.
Nets are manufactured by GFCCA net factory in Ahmedabad. While some fishermen
prefer nets made of monofilament because of their higher catch rates, such
nets are bulky to stack and difficult to handle, and most fishermen prefer
multi-filament nets. Gill nets take about 10 minutes to set, are left in the
sea for 1 - 1-1/2 hours and take about an hour to bring back aboard. Gill net
catch differs from the composition of trawl catch and gill nets take more of
the relatively higher priced table species. When MFV are used for gill
netting, the mast in the foredeck is unstepped and sometimes even the winch
is removed. The gill net is shot from the port side and picked up over the
starboard side. Some vessels are built specially for gill netting, these have
lower freeboard than trawler-cum-gill netters and there is no house--only a
low engine cover--in order to reduce windage, and steering is by rudder at the
stern.
Crew
9.        Crew size varies from five to eight depending upon vessel size and
fishing method, and pay varies from Rs 200 to Rs 500 per month, depending
upon vessel size, experience and position held. Details are shown in Table 1.
In addition, crew members are provided food when aboard and are allowed to
take fish home. Skippers are paid at half rate during the south west monsoon
but other crew members are usually not paid during this period. Information
on pay relates to those vessels (the majority) on which crew members are on a
set pay scale. On some gill net vessels crew income is also based on a share
of the catch, in which case their income tends to be higher than those who are
entirely on a set scale. In order to particpate in catch sharing crew here
to provide some of the nets, which are expensive. Vessel owners, therefore,
have difficulties in the recruitment of crew for payment on a share basis.
10.       GOG proposes to revise its vessel registration scheme.
11.       Under the GOG proposals registry records would be kept separately
for:
(i)   trawlers of 9 to 20 gt;
(ii)   gill-netters of 8 to 10 gt;
(iii) motorized vessels of 1 to 5 gt; and
(iv)   non-mechanized sailing vessels of 1 to 10 gt.
12.       Survey of vessels exceeding 50 ft with engines of and 149 hp would
be required. Other information required and procedures that would be used
would be declaration of ownership, issuance of certificate of registry,



ANNEX 4
Page 4
custody and use of certificate, replacement of defaced or lost certificates,
endorsement on certificate of change of master, endorsement on certificate of
change of ownership, removal from registry of vessels lost or ceasing to be a
vessel, temporary pass in lieu of certificate, transfer of vessel or shares,
registry of transfer, transmission of property in a vessel on death or insol-
vency, transfer of vessel on sale by order of court, registration of mortgage,
entry of discharge of mortgage, other matters associated with mortgage, name
of vessel, registry alterations on vessel alterations, registry anew of change
of ownership, transfer of port of registry, inspection of registry and certi-
fied copies of certificates, and other matters.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page I
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Boat Risk Fund
1.        GOG proposes to establish a Boat Risk Fund to supply insurance to
boat owners. GFCCA would operate the Fund and beneficiaries of this project
and members of GFCCA and its affiliates would be eligible for particiation.
2.        Coverage would be provided for: (a) total loss; and (b) 50% of the
cost of repairs and replacements in excess of Rs 10,000 in the case of partial
loss. Following the project period, such coverage would be continued but at
a higher premium rate if necessary. Existing commercial rates are 2 1/2% of
value for loss and an additional 3/4 of 1% for partial losses (total annual
premium about Rs 6,300).
3.        Initial capital for the Fund would be provided by GOG in the form
of a contribution. Additional income to the Fund would arise from return
on investments and premiums.
4.        Over the past few years the loss rate of vessels has been very
low, less than 0.5%. There is, however, always the possibility of heavy
losses owing to unexpected cyclonic storms. The proposed funding could
cover losses of up to 10% of project vessels.
5.        The Fund would be managed by an Executive Committee, which would
meet at least once per quarter or more often as necessary, with the follow-
ing membership:
Commissioner of Fisheries - Ex-officio Chairman;
Registrar of Cooperative Societies;
Financial Adviser to Agriculture, Forest and Cooperative Department;
Representative of Fishermen's Societies;
Representative of State Cooperative Bank;
Representative of individual boat owners;
General Manager of GFCCA;
Deputy General Manager of GFCCA at Veraval - Secretary
6.        Establishment expenses charged to the Fund would not exceed 3% of
the capital of the Fund on July 1 of a year or Rs 15,000 whichever is least.



INDIA                                ANNEX 4
Table 1
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJBCT
Vessel Crew Size and Pay Scales, Veraval
(Rs per month)
Crew                  11 m - gill            13 m trawler         14.8 m trawler/
netter - cum           cum - gill           gill netter
trawler                 netter
Number  Pay            Number   Pay         Number   Pay
Skipper                 1     400              1      500           1       500
Engine driver           1     300              1      400           1       400
Deckhand                3     200              3       250          4       250
Total crew              5   1,300              5    1,650           6    1,900
Source: GOG Department of Fisheries
(JCM:mbw   June 24, 1976)



ANNEX 5
Page  1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Traditional Fishermen Component
A.   Introduction
1.        This component would extend to about thirty-five central and north-
ern fishing villages of which eight, around Mangrol and Veraval, would be the
primary target. The villages, which lie between 22.80 and 20.80 latitude,
range in location from the Bay of Kutch to about the entrance of the Gulf of
Cambay near Diu facing the Arabian sea. The villagers are almost solely
dependent on fishing for their existence. In early 1976, the total propula-
tion of these villages was about 27,000. Average family size is around seven
and the birth rate over 3%. Fishermen live in thatched huts with an earth
floor, and most villages are without potable water supplies, often women
carry water from 1 km to 3 km. Roads are frequently rough paths impassable
during the monsoon. The sea coast villages are situated on, or adjacent to
shifting sand beaches which have a high pitch, subject to large surg waves,
and have no natural protection. Capital investments for breakwaters or
jetties in any one small village, would cost as much as these needed for a
minor harbor facilitie, such as Mangrol. There are no shed for sorting fish
and ice seldom is available. Many fishermen are unemployed and without canoes.
Hired boats hands earn Rs 200 to Rs 225 per month in the fishing season.
2.        Six out of the eight coastal villages between Mangrol and Veraval
lack access to main roads. Only four of the villages have primary schools,
and all of them lack telecommunication and medical facilities. GOG has a
long range plan to assist these villages and has recently serviced them
with power lines. The usual marketing channels for fish are traders who
are money lenders, and leading families in the villages. During the monsoon,
when no fishing takes plae, many boat owners borrow from traders in return
for which they usually have to accept pre-fixed prices for their fish; these
prices are often 30 to 40% lower than market prices.
B.   Vessels, Outboard Motors, and Fishing Gear
4.        Two types of traditional boats are used in the project area.  The
9 m dug-out sea-going canoe and the 9-10 m plank, either flat of 'V' shaped,
boat used in the Gulf of Kutch. Construction of a canoe is started when
the buyer goes to Kerala and selects a suitable mango tree. Workman prepare
a canoe to his specifications. The landed cost of a canoe of Gujarat is
about Rs 15,000. The canoes have a life of at least 20 years and as they



ANNEX 5
Page 2
are built to meet local conditions they are able to absorb the punishment
of heavy waves. The canoes can be easily moved forward or backed without
turning the boat about, and an ouboard motor can be attached. The demand
for canoes is great, but the demand for outboard motors is greater. Village
fishing zones are immediately adjacent to the villages. If fishermen have
outboard motors it takes about two hours to get to the fishing grounds;
consequently they are able to fish for up to six hours before having to
start back. If the canoes rely on sail it takes four hours each way and
only two to three hours are available to fishing. Motorized canoes, which
are able to take quite large surf waves that are common preceeding and during
the monsoon, produce at least 40% more catch than sailing canoes. All out-
board motors are imported. In early January 1976, GFCCA imported 200 kerosene
powered outboard motors from Japan and was able to sell them in two days. There
are about 1,600 canoes working the area of which only 600 have outboard motors
(4-8 hp). Estimated total demand exceeds 1,600 motors, including replace-
ments (Table 1).
5.        Canoes use gill nets and drift nets from end of August to November
to catch pomfrets, giant herrings, Indian shad, seer, shark and cat fish;
during winter months from December to March they operate bottom-set nets,
and catch white pomfrets, perch, eel, catfish, sharks and rays. They fish
from late March to mid-May in rocky grounds at 5-10 fathoms for rock lobsters
using gill nets. These nets are made ot 210 denier nylon 2 x 2 construction
'S' twist, mesh size of 13-15 cm., 45-50 meshes depth and 1,000 meshes in
length, and 3 mm. dia hard twisted monofilament twinces with 50% filling.
Synthetic floats (locally manufactured) are attached to the board rope at
intervals of 3 m along with stone sinkers. GFCCA manufactures the nets in
Ahmedabad for Gujarat and surrounding States.
C.   Sub-Project Components
6.        The sub-project would include the following main components:
(a) provision to fishermen on credit and over four years, 1,400
outboard motors of about 8 hp, of these about 475 would be
for non-motorized canoes, 575 to replace old motors in
motorized canoes and 350 for new canoes. The motors and
20% spare parts would be imported by GFCCA;
(b) provision to fishermen on credit and over three years,
350 new 9 m dug-out canoes fully equipped with outboard
motors, nets, sail, rope and anchors. The outboard motors
for the canoes are included in (a) above. Six of the canoes
would be made of fiber glass as an experiment, and initially
would be owned by GFCCA and leased to fishermen;
(c) provision of four trucks to GFCCA for delivery of ice and
spare parts, to fish the eight villages between Veraval
and Mangrol and for the transportation of fish therefore.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(d)  erection of 8 permanent sheds at the eight villages for
collection and temporary storage of fish, and storage
of ice. The sheds would include space for auctioning
fish (Table 2);
(e) construction of 33.5 km of approach roads to six villages
(Table 2); and
(f) provision of potable water supply for five villages
(Table 2).
7.        Finance for items (a), (b) and (c) with an aggregate investment
of Rs 20.5 M would be channelled through the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC) Funds for items (d), (e) and (f) would be
channelled through GOG. The sub-project would benefit at least 10,000
villagers, and the annual catch of the villages is estimated to increase
by. about 8,000 tons by 1981 as a consequence of the project.
D.   Organization and Management
8.        Each fishing village would form a fishermen's primary cooperative
society (FPCS) with the existing social leader, the Patel, as its President.
FPCS would be affiliated to the District Cooperative Society which would in
turn be affiliated to GFCCA.
9.        Because of the risks inherent in this type of lending and to en-
sure prompt loan repayments, canoes and outboard motors would be owned by
FPCS which would have separate sales agreements with individual fishermen.
Under this 'hire-purchase' type operation a fishermen would become owner
of his canoe only when his final loan repayment has been made. Lending terms
and conditions are in Schedule A to the main report. FPCS would obtain loans
from project participating banks, which would in turn be refinanced by ARDC.
Participating banks would be those banks approved by and included in the ARDC
Banking Plan for the project. ARDC would pay particular attention to the
financial structure and organization of participating FPCS and would closely
supervise these societies.
10.       Fishermen purchasing canoes and motors from FPCS would agree to
permit FPCS to make deductions from their fish sales proceeds which would be
credited to members loan accounts. Each FPCS would be staffed with a trained
secretary, who would be provided by GOG, and with a bookkeeper. Staff train-
ing would be carried out under the direction of GOG, GFCC and ARDC.
11.       It is estimated that GFCCA, would be able to handle up to 30% of
the total marketable surplus generated in project villages. It would pro-
vide ice to the villages, and collect fish from them. The remainder of
the catch would handled by the traditional trading community.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Demand for Canoes and Outboard Motors
Population        No. of canoes       j        Demand for             Demand for outboard                  Total demand
1'       of  fishing    or flat-bottom boats              new canoes             ,&tors replaogment               for outboard motors
Name of village!/          community        With      Without
1971   1976       motor      motor         1     2      3                -1    2- 3-                    1      2     3   ~-W7
1. Kotda                   965            20  (10)~'    55          10       5    4       19       2      3       5    10  20    67    8       9      10        94
2. Madhwad              2,350             58  ( 7)       40         12      10   10       32       14    17      20      7  58    46   27    30        7       110
3. Muldwarka            1,385             69  ( 2)       29         10      10    5       25      10    19       40     2  71    49   29    45         2       125
4. Dhamiej              1,238             77  (20)       63         10      10    6       26      12    18       27    20  77    85   28    33        20       166
5. Sutrapada            1,332             65  (15)       71         10      10    6       26       10    15      25    15  65    91   25    41        15       172
6. Hirakot              1,149             72  (20)       12          8       5    4       17       10    15      26    20  7)    30   20    30        20       100
7. Jaleshwar (Veraval) 2,100              97  (56)       52         30      30   30       go        7    13      21    56  9f    89   43    51        56       239
8. Chorwad                 953            54  (15)       53          8       8    4       20        6    14      19    15  5L   .67   22    23        15       127
9. Mangrol              2,137             13  (10)       73         25     25   20        70        1     1       2    10  14    99   26    22        10       157
10. Mangrol Bara            742            58  (10)       27         10       5    2       17        8    18      22    10  58    45   23    24        10       102
11. Jamnager Dist.                       |
(incl. 22 villages)  4,910               1            661         25     27   28       80                       1          1    25   27    18       30       100
12. Porbandar             3,340             5            421          6       8    9       23                      5          5    42   21    21         5       89
13. Miani                   232             1             18          1       1    2        4                      1          1      2    1      3       1        7
14. Navabandar              249             2             13          1       2    2        5                      2          2      2    4      4       2       12
23,082                        1,588        166    156  132       454       80   133    216   165 594   739  304   354    203    1,,6oo
The project will concentrate on villages 1 through 10.
j Fishing villages are assumed to have 3% population growth from 1972-76.
New Outboard motors by GFCCA in 1975-76.
Source: Government of Gujarat, Department of Fisheries, May 1976.
c1
June 30. 1976
EC



INDIA                                     .a DL
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Traditional Fishermen Sub-Project
__                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~3/
Shed;/          Roadsa/              Water Supply-
Unit  Cost/Rs   Km.  dTt7/Rs   No. of   Length of line    Cost
wells   to village (km)    Rs
Chorwad         1     39,000                         1            6.o         425,000
Dhamleg         1     39,000   16.O   1,028
Hirakot         1     39,000    3.5       223        1            4.5         300,000
Kotada          1     39,000
M.'adhwad       1     39,000    1.0        98
Mangrol Bara   1      39,000    4.0       293        1            7.0         450,000
1%lul-Dwarka    1     39,000    5.5       268        1            4.5         300,000
Sutrapada       1     39,000    3.5       223        1            8.o         500,000
TOTAL     8    312,Q00   33.5   2,133          5           30.0       1,975,000
1/  Sheds are 10 m X 8 m of brick, cement, walls, asbestos sheet roofs, electricity
tanks for fish, and fresh water connection.
2/  Roads are of asphalt at 3.65 m wide.
3/  Includes wells (6 m diameter and 18 m deep), pump house, pump machinery, rising
main distribution pipeline, cistern, stand post, and electricity.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A. Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh Test Fishing Operations
1.        Introduction:  Demersal resources of Gujarat inshore waters have
been surveyed by GOI and GOG survey vessels and are being exploited by a grow-
ing fleet of trawlers. Inshore pelagic resources have been exploited to a
lesser extent by gill netters. Little is known of the nature, abundance,
distribution and potential catch rates of offshore demersal and pelagic re-
sources and mid-water resources in general. Exploratory surveys elsewhere in
India, offshore surveys in the northern Arabian Sea by other countries, e.g.
Japan, and what is known of the general productivity of the northern Arabian
Sea, all suggest that the waters offshore Gujarat should be highly productive.
However, additional information about resources of this area is required so
that further development and management of fishery resources proceed on a
rational basis, avoiding over-capitalization and over-fishing. Such informa-
tion can best be provided by commercial fishing vessels manned by experienced
commercial fishermen fishing in commercial fishing style.
2.        Elsewhere in India, coastal waters have been, or will be, exten-
sively surveyed in all areas except the east coast (Bay of Bengal) north of
Madras. Some survey work has been done there in inshore water by GOI and
some information is available from the commercial fishery, which started to
develop there much later than that on the west coast. However, more inform-
ation is needed on offshore resources. Since a fisheries project similar to
the Gujarat operation is being prepared for Andhra Pradesh, GOI gives priority
to a survey of this area. Because of evidence already at hand suggesting
offshore (beyond 200 m depth) resources of pelagic fish, pelagic and mid-water
surveys should be extended off-shore well beyond the edge of the continental
shelf; such surveys should be carried out in each area over two years; one
year for demersal and one for pelagic.
3.        Terms of Reference:  The surveys will be commercially oriented and
will be of fishery resources on and over the continental shelf area (to a
depth of at least 200 m) off Gujarat and on, over and beyond the continental
shelf area off Andhra Pradesh. Under terms of reference yet to be prepared
in detail the contractor would be required to:
(a) in each area, fish during the first year with a trawler
capable of bottom and mid-water trawling and capable of
fishing a minimum of 20 days per month (240 days per year);



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) fish in such a manner as to provide information on the
nature of the bottom and kinds, distribution and catch
rates of fishery resources according to season;
(c) prepare and distribute to GOG, GOI and GOAP, quarterly
progress reports and a final report on demersal and mid-
water resources including an economic analysis of the
feasibitity of commercial trawlers in the area;
(d)  in each area, fish during the second year with a commer-
cial purse seiner capable of fishing with purse seine
for a minimum period of 20 days per month (240 days
per year);
(e)  fish in the second year in such a manner as to provide
information on the kinds, distrLbution and catch rates of
fishery resources according to season;
(f) prepare and distribute to GOG, GOI and GOAP, quarterly
progress reports and a final reports on pelagic resources
including an economic analysis of the feasibility of purse
seining in the areas; and
(g) train on all vessels, Indian counterparts to officers and
crew, on a one-to-one basis.
4.        Cost.  The total cost over two years is estimated to be:
Foreign exchange:
Vessel charter                         = US$2,190,000 = Rs 19,710,000
Contingency (@ 10%)                    = US$  219,000 = Rs  1,971,000
Total foreign exchange          = US$2,409,000 = Rs 21,681,000
Local costs: (Rs 1,100,000 year one;
Rs 728,000 year two)                                 1,828,000
Subtotal           23,509,000
Less value of catch by trawlers                            -  8,100,000
Less value of catch by seiners                             -  4,050,000
TOTAL           Rs 11,359,000
5.        Vessel charter contract(s) should be executed at the lowest possible
daity rate but include an incentive provision based on the amount of catch in
order to ensure that maximum effort is extended by the contractor. Contract(s)



ANNEX 6
Page 3
should be written with an end-of-contract option for GOG, GOI or GOAP to
purchase the vessels at a price to be determined by an independent surveyor.
B. Fish Marketing Study
6.        Incremental catch resulting from the project is estimated at 45,000
tons per annum for which existing marketing facilities are adequate. How-
ever, according to GOI plans about 100,000 tons of incremental marine fish-
eries catch would reach the market each year and this would require a con-
siderable improvement in marketing channels. A domestic fish marketing survey
has not been carried out in India since 1958. No analysis of the market has
ever been undertaken for dried fish, whether used either for human consumption
or as a component (fish meal) of animal feed. Little is known as to the extent
of the dried fish and fish meal market in either Gujarat, Bombay (the largest
collecting point in India) or India as a whole.  In addition, little is known
about interior consumer demand and the marketing channels for fresh fish.
7.        An intensive marketing study should be undertaken to assess market
prospects for increased production of both fresh and dried fish.  Terms of
reference for the study would be prepared by Ministry of Agriculture (GOI)
and the study would be carried out by the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad, or a similar marketing research institution, and the Indian Insti-
tute of Foreign Trade (GOI).
8.        The objectives of the study would be to identify consumer or end
user demand both along the coast and the interior of India. It would examine
competitive foods (animal proteins and legumes) for which fish must compete
as to consumer acceptance and prices. It would attempt to measure demand
and per capita consumption by regions, metropolitan areas, income groups and
other relevant categories indigenous to India, such as religious and ethnic
groups.
9.        The study would analyse marketing channels for fresh, dried and
export varieties of fish and crustacea through Bombay. It would identify the
trading community, its locations, its bottlenecks, and measure its ability to
absorb additional quantities of fish. The study would endeavor to measure the
ability of the present infrastructure especially transport, godowns, inflows
and outflows to handle fresh, dried and export varieties of fish in the Bombay
area. The study would identify markets, bottlenecks, and recommend solutions
for the bottlenecks. It would also examine the need for a cold store chain
system to facilitate the marketing of fish of consistent quality. It is
estimated that the study would take ten to eleven months and cost about
Rs 625,000.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
C. Technical Assistance
10.       Outline terms of reference for consultants employed under the proj-
ect would be as follows:
(a)  Harbor Engineer:  The harbor engineer would be responsible to
the Director of Ports in an advisory capacity for the review
of design with particular reference to:
(i)  examination of the model studies conducted in the
Central Water and Power Research Station, Khadak
Wasala in order to assess justification of minor
changes in the western breakwater extension;
(ii) other design work with particular reference to civil
engirerring components of the slipway;
(iii) ensuring that conditions of contract which might be
contrary to normal practice in international tendering
and would deter contractors from bidding;
(iv) procurement of additional excavating plant; and
(v)  review pollution control at Veraval.
Coordinate the activities of the local mechanical/electrical
engineers and the rock excavating specialist; pay regular
visits to the sites to review quality of work being executed,
progress of work and consider, in conjunction with GOG and
the contractor, ways in which any difficulties encountered
could be overcome; and report his findings and recommenda-
tions to GOG for onward transmission to IDA.
11.       The harbor engineer should be a graduate in civil engineering from
a recognized university or technical college, with not less than 12 years
experience in planning, design and construction of major civil engineering
works of which not less than six years should have been spent in port and
harbor activities. He should be familiar with methods of analysis of wave
records, breakwater design and slipway design, and be accustomed to problems
associated with harbor work in tropical countries. His services would needed
for an initial period of up to eight weeks followed by eight site visits at
six monthly intervals each of about two weeks in the field followed by up
to one week's report writing (estimated cost US$84,700).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(b) A Rock Dredging Specialist: The rock dredging specialist would
assist in drawing of a schedule of functional requirements for
procurement of additional dredging equipment; he would also
devise and direct a program of field trials to determine suit-
able spacings, burdens, undercuts and charges for underwater
drilling and blasting to achieve satisfactory fragmentation
of the rock for dredging.
12.       The rock-dredging specialist should be a graduate or diploma holder
in civil engineering or an allied science from a recognized university or
technical college (or have exceptional practical experience), and should have
not less than ten years experience of heavy civil engineering works (or similar
activities) of which not less than five years should have been spent on oper-
ations involving extensive rock blasting. He should be experienced varying
spacings, etc., of charges for underwater blasting of rock, and in devising
and directing field trials for determining satisfactory procedures.
13.       His services would be needed for a period of about nine weeks,
including an eight week visit to experiment and advise on the drilling
pattern to be adopted (estimated cost US$24,600).
(c) For Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh Marine Test Fishery Operations
a Fisheries Resources Specialist: A fisheries resources spe-
cialist would provide advisory services to GOG, GOI, and GOG
with respect to:
(i)   planning commercially oriented surveys of demersal,
mid-water and pelagic fishes on the continental shelf
area (to a depth of 200 m) off Gujarat and on the
continental shelf area and beyond off the east coast
(Bay of Bengal) of India north of Madras;
(ii)   planning observations to be made and data to be
collected;
(iii) planning data processing and analysis methods;
(iv)   reviewing progress at six months intervals; and
(v)   preparing progress reports and final reports for
each area including economic feasibility analysis
in form useful to GOG, GOI, GOAP and private sector.
14.       The consultant should be a senior fishery biologist with broad
experience in fisheries, who is development oriented and accustomed to work-
ing in developing countries. Experience should include, in addition to
fishery science, planning surveys, data processing and analysis, and fish-
ing industry. His services would be needed over two years, including an



ANNEX 6
Page 6
initial three month period followed by one month twice a year and a final
two month, in each area (for a total of sixteen man-months in country
estimated cost US$194,000).
(d) Management Specialist for Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD): A
fisheries terminal organization specialist to advise FTD
management on:
(i)  FTD organization and its organization of services;
these would include landing, market sales, levying
and collection of landing charges, provision of
water, fuel and ice;
(ii) method of unloading vessels, laying out fish for
auction and clearing the auction hall;
(iii) development of an auction system;
(iv) proper handling and hygienic operation of the
terminal area and facilities; and
(v)  demonstrate the efficient use of ice to fishermen
in order to improve the quality of fish.
15.       The specialist should be a graduate of a recognized University or
technical college/institute, with at least 10 years experience in the oper-
ation of fishing port shore facilities. He should have experience in the
operation of wholesale marine fish auctions preferably in tropical countries
and should also have experience of icing techniques on fishing vessels. A
candidate with appropriate experience but without a degree may be considered.
His services would be needed for two years, commencing six months before the
FTO is ready for operation (estimated cost US$100,000).
Summary
16.       Consultant                         Period           Estimated Cost
(man months)            (US$)
Harbor engineer                              about 8              84,700
Engineer rock excavating specialist          about 3              24,600
Fisheries resources specialist             about 16              194,000
Fisheries terminal specialist              about 24              100,000
403,300



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule (Marine Works)-1/
Activity                                           Responsibility   Date of Completion
Prepare documents for ICB for dredging
equipment                                                 GOG           April 1977
Invite tender for dredging equipment                      GOG          May 1977
Place order for dredging equipment                        GOG           April 1977
Place order for construction plant                        GOG           April 1977
Prequalify civil contractors                              GOG           April 1977
Ot:er activities to end 1977
Invite tender for marine works                            GOG          April 1977
Appraise tender for marine works                          GOG           August 1977
Place order for marine works                              GOG           November 1977
Appoint supervisory staff                                 GOG           September 1977 (nucleus,
Ensure housing for supervisory staff                      GOG          November 1977
1/' This schedule will be updated at negotiations.
A detailed GOG critical surveys covers all phases of construction.
August 24, 1976



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1976            1977            1978             1979             1980             1981
Marine Works
Dredging
Procurement                                                       -
Dredging                                                                                _
Tender Documents
Construction
Veraval
Mangrol                                                                         m
Shore Facilities
Veraval                                    -                                       -
Mangrol                                                                            -
Trawler Construction
Traditional Fishermen Subproject
Technical Assistance
Resource Survey
Gujarat & Andhra Pradesh                                                                   _
Marketing Survey
Harbor Engineer                                                                    a n             a                .
Rock dredging Specialist
Fisheries Resources Specialist                                _               U        U       U       U w      w          w        U w
Fisheries Terminal Organization Specialist
World Bank-t 6608






Table 1
Page 1
GWJARAT FTIU    PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Loca         jd       Total       Zxh
:=:--(RsO00-0)               ('000)--- 
1  Harbour Improvements and Shore Services
VArol
Dredgng                              200       100       300       22        11       33          33
Breakwater                         8,500     1,500   10,000       944       167    1,111          15
Cofferdam                            200          -      200       22         .        22          -
Excavation                         2,500       200    2,700       278        22       300          7
Qua4Z                              1,300        200    1,500      145        22       167         13
Auctionhall                           456        24      480       51         2        53          5
Kari.gement offices                  209         11      220       23         1        24          5
Workshop                              95          5      100       10         1        11          5
Coos h04                                         6       110       11         I       12           5
G"r shed                              86         4        0        10         -        10         Is
Roads and pa'ving                    320         80      400       36         9        45         tO
Water supply                          350       150      500       39         17       56         30
Ealectriclty                         375        125      500       42        14        56         25
DE eriit                             285         15      300       31         2        33          5
Navigation aids                       50         50      100        6         5        11         50
Fences and walls                     126         14      140       14         2        16         10
Sub-total                       15,156     2,484   17,640    i,684        276    1,960          14
Contingencies 20%                  3,031        1497   3,528      337        55       392         14
Supervision                          762                 762      .5          -
Sub-total langrol                          2        TIE                   3
Veraval
Dredging-plant                     4,500    10,500   15,000       500     1,167    1,667          70
Dredging-other costa               5,700      2,300    8,000      633       256       889         29
Breakwater                        15,600     2,800   18,400    1,733        311    2,0144         15
Cofferdam                            900        200    1,100      100        22      122          18
Excavation                        16,400     1,400   17,800    1,822        155    1,977           8
Quays                              4,800        700    5,500      533        78       611         13
Slipvays                           3,400      600    4,00o       378        67       445         15
Footbridge                           700        100      800       78        11        89         13
Auction hall                       1,890        100    1,990      210        11      221           5
Management offices                   323         17      340       36         2        38          5
Workshop                             446         24      470       50         3        53          5
Canteen                              161          9      170       18         1        19          5
Gear shed                            503         27      530       56          3       59          5
Roads and paving.                  1,200        300    1,500      133        33       166         20
Water supply                         700        300    1,000       78         33      111         30
Electricity                          750       250    1,000        83        28       111         25
Drainage and sewage                1,235        65    1,300       137         7      1414          5
Navigation aids                       80        70       150        9         8       17          47
Fences and walls                      405     _4         450       45       -        *            10
Sub-total                       59,693-   19,807   79,500    6,632      2,201    8,833          25
Contingencies 20% *               11,039     1,861   12,900    1 ,227       206    1,433          14
Supervision                        -3 33  330                     370         -       370
Sub-total Veraval              i74,06    ;2,698       7         2 ,22   2,407  I066              3
-tetal            Waftrks       93,011    246149  117,660   10,335      2,738   13,073          21
2. Shore Facilities
ui~~dpnent)                          380         33      413       42          4       46          8
Ice complex                          708        842    1,550       79        93       172         54
Freezing complex                   1.l80        980    2.160      131       109       240         45
Sub-total                        2,268     1,855    4,123       252       206       458         45
Contingencies 5%                     113         93      206       13        10        23        45
Sub-total MAngrol                2,301                                          -T ;   6  2  48t
Veraval
ETDeTquipment)                     1,071         71    1,142      119          8      127          6
Ice complex (2 plants)             3,044      3,756    6,800      338       417       755         55
Freezing complex                   2,150      1,580    3,730      239       176       415         42
Fishmeal plant                     2.400     4.340    6.710       267     .82         749        IL
Sub-total                        8,665      9,747   18,41 2     963     1,083    2 9046         53
Contingencies 5%                     433        487      920       48     -.         102
Sub-total Veraval                9,098    10,23k   19,332    1 01l               2
Sub-total Shore facilities     11, M79    12,3  1    ,2 7  9  T1        135
* On all items excluding the dredging plant.
'bigaust 28, 1976



ANE 8
Table 1
Page 2
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PEWECT
Cost Estimated
Foreign
Local    Foreign     Total    Local                  Total      Exchange
_______o)_-=~~~~~~~~~roo ------S    00-----            S
3. 1h,8 * Srs
Hulls                     18,580           -    18,580    2,064          -       2,064            -
Diesel engines            14,040       3,500    17,540    1,560        389       1,949          20
Nets                        1,900        100     2,000       211        11         222            5
Miscellaneous items           260     3    0  29                                                4 2
Sub-total                   8        3,4204,269
(b) Mngrol
Hulls                      6,503           -     6,503       723         _         723           _
Diesel engines             4,914       1,225     6,139       546       136         682          20
Nets                          665         35        700       74         4          78            5
Miscellaneous itema            91          4       105        10         1          11          12
Sub-total               12,173       1,27 1   13,7 7'153                                      7
Sub-total trawlers      46,953       4,914    51,867    5,217                  5,763
4. Traditional Fishwmen
Sub-r ect
Canoes (wooden)    (344)   5,160           -      5,160      573          -        573            -
Canoes (fibeglas) (6)         101         11        112       12         1                      10
Sub-total C nes TM    -r2            -T        S,272 7                 1         50
(b) Motors. nAts.  QuiPDnt
Motors for new
Canoes            (350)     962         998     1,960       107       111         218          51
:btors for existing
Canoes            (475)   1,306       1,354     2,660       145       150         295          51
Motors for l_
plac t            (575)   1,581       1,639     3,22O       176       182         358          51
20%  a-re-pects               770        798     1,568        85        89         174          51
Nats for nm  canoes(350)   3,097         158     3,255       344        18         362           5
Equipment for new
eanoes        t~~~350)  52Sr 525                         8-                   5
Sub-total Motors (350)  -j5C 7          1         j w
(c)  Intwtructure
Prar st               (8)     312          -        312       35          -         35            -
Roads             (33.5 ka) 1,706        427      2,133      190        47         237           20
Water supply          (5)   1.382                 1 975                 66
Sub-total                 3,40       1,020     4;42                   T
Contingencies 15%             510        153       663        57        17          74          23
Engineering, super-
vision, admini-
stration 10%                 508          -       508
Sub-total InfrastructureT,4    1 ,173          5,5                   10           1fi   F
(d)  Trucks              (4)     432         108       540        48        12          60          20
Traditional f isheimen
Sub-total                T8    6,239    249,591    r,;5 639                    2,732
5. Miscellaneous Surorting 3A 1
Netting machine for 200 mehes         186       414        600       21         46           67            69
Netting acldAne for 400 mehes         205       455        660       23         50           73            69
Installation                           10         -         10        1          -            1
Sub-total                          w          m       1,270      -7                      14 1 
Contingencies 10%                      40         87       12                   10                         6
Sub-total supporting services                                              TM            To
6. Tecbical Assistance
Marine works                          109       985      1,094       12        109          121            90
Shore facilities (MFl)                 90        810       900       10         90          100            90
Resources surveys                     175     1,571      1.746       19        175          1914           90
Narketinga urvey                      625          -       625       69          -           69
Gtnjart resources survy               91h     9,855    10,769       102      1,095        1,197            92
Andhra Pradesh resources survey       91t4    2.85      103 6       102      1.S          1.197
Sub-total                        2        23U,067    25P903      314- 2J,56           -2M               w
Contingncies 10%                      282     2,308    2_590         31      c 25           288            8
Sub-total technical eAsistAance tO  0
Tptal Project Cost
(excluding price
contingenciem)                173,345    74,324   247,669   19,261      B,257        27,518            30
Auguis- 2L, 1976



ANNEX 8
INDIA                                 Table 2
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJBCT
Price Contingencie
Year:                 1977178   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82  Total
1. Civil works and services
Base cost estimate Rs '000      8,900      42,601    52,820    35,551      1,498  141,370
Contingency rate   %               12          12        11        10         10
Price contingencies Rs '000     1,575      13,547    24,773    22,148      1,176   63,219
2. Equipment
Base cost estimate Rs '000     24,639      22,462    26,053    19,300    13,846  106,300
Contingency rate   %                 8          8         8          7         7
Price contingencies Rs '000      3,030      4,785     8.076     7,874      7,020   30,785
3.' Total price contingencies
Contingencies Rs '000         4,605     18,332    32,849    30,022       8,196   94,oo4
4. Total Project Cost              38,144      83,395   111,722    84,873    23,540  341,674
] Base cost estimates are based on May 1976 prices. Contingency rates for 1976/77
were assumed to be 11% and 8% for civil works and equipment respectively.
0,w  1975



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Coot 1BtUSte.
14.8 m Trawler
Iocal         Foreign         Total
- -   - ---(Rs '000)        - - -   
Item
HU112/                 92.9             -              92.9
Diesel Engine_2/        70.2           17.5            87.7
Nt3/ 
Nets-/                  9.5             0.5            10.0
Miscellaneous itemsW   1.3              0.2             1.5
Total           173.9            18.2          192.1
1/  Including winch, wire rope, pilleys, gallows, anchors, tanks,
life saving equipment, navigation lights, compass, fishhold
insulation, etc.
2/  88hp  ., water cooled with 4:1 reduction gear box.  Includes stern
gear and accessories, propeller, etc.
3/  3 trawl nets including doors and wire ropes.
hi Ropes, drums, fish boxes, cooking utensils, etc.
August 2h, 1976



ANI 8
INDIA                          Table 4
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Eutiattes
Outboard Motor and Canoe with Oitboard Motor
Item                             Local         Foreign            Total
- - - -- -  KOO0)-.0--    ----
Motor&/                          2,750          2,850             5,600
Canoev.'                       l7,5,0                            15,000
Sail and equipment/              1,500                            1,500
Gill nets                        8,850            4$             9,300
Total                   28,100          3,300            31,1400
1/ 8 hp keroesns outboard motor
2/ Length 9m
3/ Auxiliary sail, zast, anchor, rope, et'
4/ 14o units at Rs 232
August 214, 19.6



ANNEX 8
Table 5
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Ice Plant 200 ton - Veraval2'
Item                                               Local      Foreign      Total
_________ (Rs I'000) -----  -
Compressors, motors, etc.2/                      336        624          960
Ice making tanks                                 378        702        1,080
InsulationL/                                      98        392          490
Erection, 6ommissioning, testing2t                28        112          140
Buildings&                                       532         28          560
Miscellaneous/                                    150        20           1
Sub-total                                      1,522      1787,
Contingencies 5%        T7ta6                                941
Total         1,598     1,~~972       3,570
1/  200 ton/day production, 400 ton storage.
2/ 4 compressors for ice makers complete with 180 hp motors and starters,
1 compressor complete with 20 hp motor and starter for ice store,
necessary receivers, oil separators and condensers .
3/ Ice making tanks of 6 mm thick steel plate, 8 evaporator coils,
3,000 ice cans for 25 kg blocks with grids, can dump, dip tank, can
filler, brine agitators, blowers, hoist and evaporator for ice storage.
2/ 100 mm thern.o-foam complete with vapor barrier and cold store doors
V/ Erecting and commissioning of refrigeration plant only
6/  Concrete building with foundation 1,400 m2 at Rs 4oo/m ; includes ice
plant room, ice stroage room, machine room, locker room, office and
materials room .
7/ Refrigerant, salt, spare parts, wiring to main switchboard, electricity for
welding and water for construction .
August 2L4, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 6
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Ice Plant 75 ton - Mangrol-
Item                                               Local      Foreign   Total
______-(Rs '000)o_ -_--____
Compressors, mot   s, etc.*                        165        305       470
Ice making t,anks-                                 199       371        570
Insulation4                                         20         80       100
Erection, commissioning, testingr                   16         64        80
Buildings                                          238         12       250
Miscellaneous                                                  10        80
Sub-Total                        7842               1,550
Contingencies 5%                                              42
Total                                          71,- 1,627
1/ 75 toi7ray production, 200 ton storage.
2/ 3 compressors for ice makers and tanks complete with125 hp motors and
starters, separators, receivers and condensers.
3/ Ice making tanks of 6 mm thick steel plate, 3 evaporator coils,
1,080 ice cans for 25 kg blocks, with grids, can dump, dip tank, can
filler, brine agitators, blowers, hoist and evaporator for ice storage
4/ 100 mm thermofoam complete with vapor barrier and cold store doors
i/ Erecting and commissioning of refrigeration plant only .
6/ Concrete building with foundations 625 m2 at Rs 400/m  including
ice plant room, ice storage room, machine room, locker room, office
and materials store .
7/ Refrigerant, salt, spare parts, wiring to main switch board, electricty
for welding and crater for construction.
August 2S, 1976



ANNAX 8
Table 7
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Freezing Complex!/-. Verava.
Item                                                Local     Foreign       Total
_________ (Rs '000) - .-------
Compressors, motors, etc.                             340       490           830
Plate freezers, piping, coolers)-'                    300       460           760
Erection, tqsting, commissioning                       50       180           230
Insulatio(                                             70       260           330
Buildint5/                                          1,200        60         1,260
Generators6-/ g                                        40        90           130
'iscellaneouls5                                                  40           190
Sub-total                                          23150      1,580        3,730
Contingencies 5%                                      110        80           190
Total               2,260      1,660        3,920
1/  Freezing capacity 18 ton/day; includes 500 ton frozen storage and 150 ton iced
fish storage
g/ 4 compressors complete with 40 hp motors and starters for freezers,
2 compressors complete with 30 hp motors and starters for frozen storage, and
2 compressors with 15 hp motor and starter for iced fish store. Separators,
receivers, condensers, pipes and fittings.
3] .defrigerant piping, coolers and fans, 4 double contact plate freezers.
2/ Polystyrene insulation complete with vapor barrier, 150 mm thick for frozen
storage, 100 mm thick for iced fish store.
i/ Concrete or brick building 3,150 m2 at Rs 40C/m2.  Includes peeling and
packing areas, freezing areas, offices, material store, loading bags, etc.
6/ 64 kw generator for frozen storage.
7/  Main switchboard wiring, electricity during construction and installation,
refrigerant and spares
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 8
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estiuates
Freezing Complex! -  Mangrol
Item                                                Local      Foreign       Total
2/                              ----- -  -(Rs '000)-----
Compressors, motors, etc.                              160       300           460
Plate freezers, piping, coolers 2                      150       290           440
Erection, testing, commissioning                        30       110           140
Insulatiovu(                                            40       180           220
Buildingl/                                             700        40           740
Generators6/                                            20        40            60
Miscellaneous /                                         80         20          100
Sub-total                                           1,180        980         2,160
Contingencies 5%                                       60         50           110
Total                                          1,240      1,030         2,270
1/ Freezing capacity 10 ton/day; includes 240 ton frozen storage and 100 ton
iced fish storage
2/ 2 compressors complete with 20 or 25 hp motor and starter for freezers,
2 compressors with 20 hp motors for frozen storage, 1 compressor with
15 hp motor and starter for iced fish storage,  sB?arators, receivers,
condensers, pipes and fittings.
3] Refrigerant piping, coolers and fans, 2 double contact plate freezers
i  Polystyrene insulation complete with vapor barrier, 150 nu thick for frozen
storage, 100 mm thick for iced fish store
2/ Concrete or brick building 1,850 m  at Rs 4091m2 Includes peeling and
packing areas, freezing area, offices, material store, loading bays, etc.
6] 32 kw generator for frozen storage
/ Main switchboard wiring, electricity during construction and installation,
refrigerant and parts
August 2h, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 9
DIDIA
GUJARUT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estiaats
Fish &eal Plant -75 tOn_
Item                                  Local        Foreism       Total
_  _       _  _ (Rs 000)   -  -  -  -  -  -
Cooker, dryer, grinder, bagger,
conveyor and screens I/              1,750         4,070       5,820
Boiler /                                300            50          350
Buildings  /                            24W0           10          250
Miscellaneous 5%                        110           210
Sub-total                          2,s400        14,340
Contingencies 5%                        120           220          340
Total                              2,080
1 Including installation.
2/ Boiler producing 100 ton steam/24 hours.
3/ 625 .2 at Rs 140/z2.  Includes plant 200 .2, office and
workshop 100 .2 and neal store 325 2.
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 1 0
GUJART FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost IStistes
Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD)
Item                           Local          Foreie         Total
_-_ _ -  -  (Rs '000 - -  - - - - -
A. Veraval
Vehicles 1/                       218              55            273
Boxes 2/                          630               -           630
Weighing machines 32/             143              16            159
Office furniture                   80              -             80
Sub-Total                    1 ,071             71         10,142
Contingencies 5:_ 53                                4            57
Total                        1,124             75          1,199
B. Hanzrol
Vehicles 4/                       110              28           138
Boxes 5/                          162               -           162
Weighing machines 6                48               5             53
Office furniture                   60               -            60
Sub-Total                      380              33           413
Contingencies  5%                  19               2            21
Total                          399             355           434
1/ 1 car at Rs 45,000; 1 jeep at Rs 48,000; 2 pick ups 0 Rs 90,000.
/  4,000 0 Rs 45.
3/ 12 # Rs 13,250.
Ij 1 jeep at Rs 489000; 1 pick up at Rs 90,000.
5/ 3,600  Rs X5.
1/ 4 @ Rs 13,250.
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 11
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Procurement
A.  ICB Items                                                              US$ M
1.  Civil works for harbor improvement                                     15.4
and shore services 1/
2. Equipment:
a. Dredging equipment 2/                             1.4
b. Equipment for shore facilities 3/                 1.9
c. OBM motors and spare parts 4/                     0.6
d. Netting machines                                  0.1              4.0
Sub-total                                                            19.4 *
B. Non-ICB Items
1. Civil works
a. Water supply and electricity                      0.4
b. Traditional fishermen                             0.8
c. Shore facilities (ice factories etc.)             1.1              2.3
2.   a. MFV (hulls, engines, misc. equipment)             7.2
b. Canoes and misc. equipment                        0.8
c. Fishing gear                                      0.9
d. Trucks                                            0.1              9.0
Sub-total                                                            11.3
C.  Technical assistance                                                    4.4
D.  Duties 5/, supervision etc.                                             2.9
TOTAL:                                                                38.0
1/  Sub-total 1 in table 8, less navigation aids, dredging equipment,
water supply and electricity, less supervision, plus price contingencies.
2/  70% of estimated price including price contingencies.
3/  Excluding FTO equipment; 80% of cost including contingencies.
4/  Price cif plus 21% price contingencies.
5/ ICB items only.
*   Of this sum US$16.4 million is likely to be won by local bidders
(civil works for harbour improvement and 50% of equipment for shore
facilities.)
January 6, 1977



AN 9
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Intimated Quarterl;r Schedile of Disbursements
IBRD FY                 Conmitments           Disbursements             Oau1atiY
and Quarter Ending                          uS $ M                          Disbr_gts
1977/78
September  30, 1977                0.2
December   31, 1977                0.3
March  31, 1978                    GA
June   30, 1978                    0.7                   OA                      0.2
1978/79
September  30, 1978                1.2                   0.3                     0.5
December   31, 1978                1.3                   0.6                      1.1
March  31, 1979                    1.2                   0.7                     1.8
June.  30, 1979                    1.3                   1.2                     3,0
1979/80
September  30, 1979                1.5                   1.3                     4.3
December   31, 1979                1.5                   1.2                       5
March  31, 1980                    1.6                   1.3                      6.8.
June   30, 1980                    1.6                   1.5                     8.3
1980/81
September  30, 1980               1.0                    1.5                      9.8
December   31, 1980                1.0                   1.6                    11.4
March  31, 1981                    1.0                   1.6                    13.0
June   30, 1981                    1.1                   1.0                    13.O
1981/82
September 30, 1981                 0.3                   1.0                    15.0
Decen.ber  31, 1981                0.2                   1.0                     16.Q
March  31, 1982                    0.2                   1.1                     17.1
June   30, 1982                    0.2                   0.3                    17.1
1982/83
September  30, 1982                 -                    0.3                    17.7
December   31, 1982  2/            -                     0.3                    18.0
1/ Estimated date of effectiveness: July 1, 1977.
2/ Estimated closing date.
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
A.        Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The main objective of the monitoring, evaluation and reporting
system would be to provide the Central Coordinating Committee (CCC), the
Project Supervision Committee (PSC), GOG, GOI, ARDC, and IDA/Bank with base-
line and current statistics on project implementation, its benefits and costs.
Such information would lead to better decision making and would enable a
timely and realistic assessment of project progress.
2.        The rate of return sensitivity tests (Annex 14) indicate that pro-
ject success would depend primarily on the realization of planned benefits.
Monitoring and evaluation activities would concentrate, therefore, mainly on
factors affecting project benefits. The most important ones are as follows:
(a) timely increase in the number of trawlers, canoes
with outboard motors, installation of outboard motors
in non-motorized canoes;
(b) average catch per vessel and its composition;
(c) effect of the increase in the number of vessels
on the average catch per vessel;.
(d) landing prices of fish and shrimp; and
(e) timely completion of marine works and shore facilities.
Surveys
3.        Baseline and current information on the number of vessels according
to type, size, age and ownership would be obtained from two independent sources:
(a) registration records of the Gujarat Ports Directorate
(GPD); and
(b) a complete census of all the vessels in Veraval, Mangrol
and the villages covered by the project, during the
monsoon season (June-August) in 1977. This census would
be repeated every second year.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Data on annual sales of vessels and motors obtained from suppliers (mainly
GFCCA) would be compared with changes in their numbers based on the regis-
tration and census data in order to ensure reliability.
4.        The main sources of statistics on catch per vessel would be a
sample survey of fish production (Table 1). Such a survey has been conducted
independently by both GOG and Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute
(CMFRI) resulting in inefficient use of resources and differing and unsatis-
factory estimates. There would appear to be major benefits in amalgamating
the two operations, and such a possibility is being examined 1/. The data
collected would remain basically unchanged but the size of the sample and the
number of sampling days per center would be increased in order to permit
stratification by type of vessel with an acceptable degree of precision. In
addition, data on operational costs would be collected from a sub-sample of
vessels and selected socio-economic data would be collected at the beginning
and at the end of the project. Present methods of data collection would be
revised and a control system would be incorporated in order to ensure reli-
ability. Centers surveyed would include Veraval, Mangrol and a sample of 3-4
villages. The survey would be designed by the Department of Fisheries (GOG)
and a draft design would be sent to IDA/Bank two months before the commencement
of data collection. The draft would include the questionnaire(s) format,
methodology of sampling data collection and control, proposed tabulation and an
indication of the expected precision of the main estimates. The revised survey
would start by January 1978.
5.        Data on fish prices would be obtained from the on-going survey of
fish prices which has been conducted by the Department of Fisheries (GOG).
These data would be supplemented (from year 4) with price statistics recorded
by the Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD).
6.        All applicants for project credit would be required to provide rele-
vant information on their household, particularly on income and employment,
which would serve as base-line data. A sample of credit recipients stratified
by type of investment (trawler, canoe, outboard motor) would be interviewed in
year 5 for obtaining similar information. A comparison of the base-line and
end of project data would indicate the project effect on the recipients of
credit. In addition a base-line socio-economy survey of a sample of all
fisherman households would be conducted at the beginning of the project. Its
main objective would be to identify and measure project effect on all fisher-
man households, including those which are not direct recipients of credit.
The end of project part of this survey would be combined with that of the
credit recipients survey (see above). An additional base-line and end of
project survey would cover production and employment in the processing
industries. Draft designs of these surveys would be sent to IDA/Bank
2 months before their commencement.
1/   A recommendation to integrate the States and CMFRI surveys is included
in the Report of the National Commission on Agriculture (1976) Part III.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
7.        The Department of Fisheries (GOG) would be responsible for conduct-
ing the surveys. A senior statistician and other required staff would be
attached to its Statistical Cell no later than three months after project
effectiveness to enable efficient and timely implementation. The analysis
of data would be done in cooperation with the Department of Economics and
Statistics (GOG) which would provide technical advice, and the use of its
computer. Analysis of production and price surveys would be done in two
stages: (i) simple analysis i.e. calculation of means, totals, percentage
distribution and comparisons with the parallel month in the previous year,
would be done at the end of each month and the results would be incorporated
in quarterly progress reports; and (ii) a further and more elaborate analysis
would take place at the end of each season. The incremental cost of the surveys
would be minimal as-
(a) most of the surveys (production and price, census of vessels,
fishermen households) are either being currently carried out
or have been conducted from time to time, and
(b) a considerable saving would be realized by unifying the two
production surveys.
Harbor Improvements and Shore Facilities (Table 2)
8.        The harbor improvements consist of many interdependent activities
whose execution sequence is important; delays could slow the development of
the fishing fleet, reduce benefits and increase costs. Timely implementation
would be assisted by network charts prepared by GOG for both Veraval and
Mangrol. Visits of consultants provided under the technical assistance
included in the project, should facilitate timely detection of any serious
deviation from the plan and enable timely correction actions.
ARDC Studies
9.        ARDC would conduct its regular follow-up supervisory studies and
concentrate mainly on credit aspects. Particular attention would be given to
GFCCA and to the traditional fishermen cooperatives. Coordination with the
Department of Fisheries (GOG) would be maintained through PSC and duplication
of effort would be avoided. Data and results of studies conducted by the
Department of Fisheries (GOG) would be made available to ARDC and vice versa.
Results of ARDC studies like those of any other project related surveys would
be discussed in PSC meetings and be included in PSC progress reports in order
to facilitate a comprehensive evaluation of project progress.
B.   Reporting (Table 3)
10.       Quarterly Progress Reports.  Quarterly progress reports would be
issued by PSC no later than one month after the end of each quarter and a
copy of each report sent to IDA/Bank. The report would review the physical
and financial progress of each project component during the quarter as well
as cumulative (from the beginning of the project) and compare it to the plan.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
The reasons for delays and/or deviations from the plan would be fully ex-
plained and their possible effect on project results would be clearly indi-
cated. Quarterly progress reports would include the main results of surveys
completed during the quarter.
11.       Annual Progress Reports.  Annual reports would be issued no later
than three months after the end of each year and summarize the physical and
financial progress of the project during the year. They would cover items
similar to those indicated for the quarterly reports.
12.       ARDC Reports.  Information on progress of ARDC related project acti-
vities together with general comments on project progress would be included
in ARDC quarterly progress reports, a copy of which would be sent to IDA/
Bank.
13.       Technical Assistance Report.  Consultants provided under this pro-
ject would submit a final report to GOI and GOG before the end of their
assignment. In the case of consultants on marine works, a report would be
submitted after each visit. A copy of these reports would be sent to IDA/
Bank.
14.       Survey Reports.  A detailed report including conclusions and recom-
mendations would be prepared for each survey no later than three months after
the end of data collection. In the case of continuous surveys (production,
prices) a report would be prepared at the end of each season. A copy of each
report would be sent to IDA/Bank.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Tentative List of Estimates to be Derived from the
Production Survey
1.        The following estimates would be provided separately for Veraval,
Mangrol and project villages included in the sample:
(a) total catch by variety. (monthly and annual);
(b) number of vessels operating by type of vessel (monthly
and annual);
(c) average catch per vessel by variety, type of vessel and
type of gear. (monthly and annual). Statistically signi-
ficant estimates would be required for the following
types of vessel: 14.8 m trawler, 9 m canoe with out-
board motor, 9 m canoe without outboard motor;
(d) distribution of vessels by type of vessel, type of gear,
fishing grounds, and proportion of long trips. (monthly
where relevant and annual);
(e) use of ice by type of vessel and gear and by the length
of the trip. (monthly and annual);
(f) methods of payment to crew by type of vessel and type of
gear (annual);
(g) number of potential fishing days by month (monthly and
annual); and
(h) estimated operating costs of vessels by type of vessel.
The estimates would indicate the physical quantities on
which the cost estimates of each input were based (annual).
2.        The current GOG production survey has been conducted since September
1974. Data collected in the survey has been analyzed mainly with respect
to estimates of total catch. It would be further analyzed retroactively to
obtain (where possible) the estimates mentioned above, in order to enable a
trend analysis at an early stage of the project.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Monitoring of Harbor Improvements
The information specified below would be included in each quarterly
progress report:
1.        Items which are difficult to quantify (e.g. placing of tenders,
procurement of plant, establishment of a quarry, construction of cofferdam,
etc.)
(a) data order should have been placed or work started to
accord with program;
(b) date order, etc., was placed;
(c) date when item should be delivered or work completed to
comply with program;
(d) latest estimated date when item will be delivered or
work completed; and
(e) remarks when (b) differs from (a) or (d) from (c), giving
reasons, effects, and proposed remedial action.
2.        Principal items which can be quantified
These would include the following: Breakwater rock (quantity of
core and secondary armour), breakwater armour units (number made and placed),
quay foundation (length prepared), quay walls (length completed), jetties
constructed (depth completed), bulk excation (quantify), rock excavating
(quantity), roads and pavings (area), buildings (area), drainage, services
etc. (estimated percentage).
The information provided on these items would specify:
(a) total quantity to be carried out;
(b) percentage of the total quantity which should have
been achieved according to the program during the
current quarter and cumulative from the beginning
of the project operations;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
(c) actual achievement (quantity and percentage of
total); and
(d) remarks when (c) differs from (b) giving reasons,
effects and proposed remedial action.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 3
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Summary of Surveys and Reports
Agency Responsible       Frequency and Timing
A.   Surveys
Vessels-registration         GOI/GOG               Continuous
Vessels-census               GOI/GOG               First census during the
monsoon season 1977; there-
after every second year.
Production                       GOG               Continuous; revised survey
would start by January 1st,
1978.
Prices                           GOG               Continuous
Credit recipients                GOG               Base-line continuous survey
based on credit forms.
End of project survey during
the monsoon season 1981.
Fishermen households             GOG               Baseline survey during year 1;
end of project survey during
year 5.
ARDC follow up studies           ARDC              Continuous throughout the pro-
ject duration.
B.   Reports
Quarterly                        PSC               One month after the end of the
quarter.
Annually                         PSC               Three months after the end of
the year.
ARDC                             ARDC              Quarterly
Technical assistance             GOG               One month after the end of the
consultant's assignment or
field visit.
Surveys                          GOG               Three months after the end of
data collection.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Organization and Management
A. Fisheries Terminal Division
Objectives
1.        The Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD), to be established under the
Commissioner of Fisheries, GOG, would be set up with the following objectives:
(a) ensure that essential shore services are available to both
fishermen and processors in the ports of Veraval and Mangrol;
(b) ensure that necessary shore facilities are developed to
enable fish to be handled and processed efficiently;
(c)  ensure that services to vessels are operated efficiently
to maximize fishing time;
(d)  operate the auction halls and introduce an auction system
for sale of all fish landed in the ports; and
(e)  ensure that accurate statistical records of catches are
maintained.
The Fisheries Terminal Area
2.        The fisheries terminal area in Veraval is that part of the Gujarat
Ports Directorate (GPD) land lying to the east of the harbor. In Mangrol it
would be the whole of the harbor area. These two sites would be leased, or
otherwise made available to FTD by GPD, together with all buildings in the
terminal area erected under the project and owned by GDP, the exception being
those offices required by GDP for port management and maintenance staff.
3.        FTD would lease sites to private, cooperative or public bodies
for construction and operation of the required shore facilities. Existing
processors, who at present lease sites in the fisheries terminal area, would
have their facilities to ensure that efficient services were made available.
4.        Permanent buildings to be erected directly under the project and
to be owned by GOG would include auction halls, offices, workshops, canteens
and gear sheds. Except for the auction halls and offices these would be let



ANNEX 11
Page 2
to concessionaries. Maintenance of buildings, services and paved areas pro-
vided by GPD and major structural changes, or repair of roads would be the
responsibility of GPD.
Management Structure and Staffing
5.        FTD would have a Managing Director with an office in Veraval who
would be responsible for overall management of Veraval and Mangrol fisheries
terminals. He would be assisted by General Managers in Veraval and Mangrol
who wold be responsible for all facilities in their terminals and would
ensure that leases be granted to provide adequate shore facilities. Techni-
cal assistance would be needed to set up FTD; a consultant would be required
for two years commencing 6 months before the a'uction halls are ready for
operation in order to introduce the changes (for Terms of Reference see
Annex 6). An outline of staff requirements is given in Table 1 but actual
details would be established by consultations between FTD and the consultant.
Staffing levels are based on landing of fish by crew of vessel and removal of
fish from the market by the purchaser after sale.
Auction System
6.        The consultant would advise FTD on a suitable auctioning system.
All fish coming into ports of Veraval and Mangrol would be landed at the
fisheries terminal and would be sold through the auction halls. GPD would
not permit fish to be landed in the commercial parts of the ports. Repay-
ments of loans for the purchase of project vessels would be recovered
through the FTD by way of standing order deductions from the sale of fish.
7.        Charges would be levied for provision of facilities and fish auc-
tions. These would be about 1% of sales value and the average revenue at the
present time would be Rs 15/ton landed per vessel. Charges would cover use
of terminal facilities including boxes for market display, auction fees, and
water supply for vessels. Containers for display of fish for sale and move-
ment within the terminal area would be provided by FTD.
Statistical Records
8.        These would be maintained by FTD in collaboration with the Department
of Fisheries (GOG).
B.  Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Ltd. (GFCCA)
9.        GFCCA was established in 1956 as an apex fishery cooperative
institution. It is registered under the Bombay State Cooperatives Act, 1925,
and is engaged in different activities connected with the fishing industry,
viz., fish capture, marketing, transportation, fish processing, storage,
freezing and exports, fishing gear manufacture, boat building, fresh water
fishing development, etc. Its membership comprises 60 cooperative societies (7



ANNEX 11
Page 3
of which are defunct) and 950 individuals.  As of 30th June 1975, its author-
ized capital was Rs 5.0 M and paid up capital Rs 1.6 M of which Rs 1.4 M was
contributed by GOG, and Rs 0.2 M by societies and individual fishermen. The
Board of Directors consists of 19 members, and its Chairman is the Commissioner
of Fisheries (Table 2).
Organization and Management
10.       Day-to-day management of GFCCA is the responsibility of the General
Manager. He is assisted by a senior manager at head office (Ahmedabad), who
is in charge of administration and accounts, and by senior managers or managers
at GFCCA branches. The accounts section is exceptionally weak and urgent
priority should be given to the appointment of a qualified chief accountant
and supporting staff to assist management with proper budgetary, inventory
and financial control. There is also an urgent need for a marketing manager
to promote sales of nylon, fish (local and export), boats and engines, and for
a qualified engineer to look after the processing units and mechanization
program. An organization chart is shown in Table 3.
Branch Network
11.       GFCCA, whose head office is in Ahmedabad, has the following branch
network:
(a) Bombay: a quick freezing plant with freezing capacity of
about 4 tons/day and storage capacity of 100 tons. Raw
materials are ob.tained from Veraval or in Bombay open market
and are frozen for export. The plant, which is used for
processing fish, lobsters, prawns and frogs legs, was pur-
chased second-hand in 1965/66 and for the last four years
(except 1971/72) it has sustained losses (Rs 0.37 M, 1974/75).
However, due to change of management and pricing poli-
cies, the unit expects to show a profit during 1975/76.
The main reasons for the losses are: (i) old machinery
requiring expensive maintenance and repair; (ii) rise
in the cost of stores, particularly packing materials;
(iii) fish catch from Veraval containing a high propor-
tion of spoilage; and (iv) poor management.
(b) Veraval:
(i) Ice Plant: a 12 tons ice factory with a 100 tons
storage capacity. The factory is continuously
incurring losses, the main reason being: (a)
under-utilization due to low catches and to com-
petition from other ice factories; (b) old machin-
ery requiring expensive maintenance and repairs;
and (c) water scarcity, thus incurring heavy char-
ges for transporting water in tankers. The loss
for 1974/75 was Rs 0.08 M.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(ii) Boat Building Yard: a well equipped boat building
yard having a capacity to construct about 90 boats
per annum. The boat yard commands a captive mar-
ket as a result of GOG policy to provide subsidy
only for boats constructed there and to loan
assistance made available by Gujarat State Finan-
cial Corporation for purchase of boats required
to be constructed in GFCCA boat yard. Although
the boat yard has been making good profits, GFCCA
has not increased prices to keep pace with infla-
tion thus there has been a decline in profits from
Rs 0.67 M in 1972/73 to Rs 0.45 M 1973/74 and
Rs 0.23 M 1974/75.
(iii) Purchase of Fresh Fish: This is purely a trading
activity of GFCCA. GFCCA makes advances to fisher-
men, not necessarily its members, before commence-
ment of the fishing season and binds fishermen to
deliver all their catches to GFCCA. There is no
system of periodical returns from branches on
advances made and recoveries effected. The system,
therefore, is open to abuse and could account for
the sizeable bad debts and defaults. Losses during
1974/75 were Rs 0.4 M.
(iv) Canning Plant: The canning plant, machinery and
equipment were purchased in 1964 and the factory
operated from 1964/65 to 1968/69, when it was
closed. Losses now shown against this unit are
on account of interest on capital and other inci-
dental charges for storage and maintenance of
idle machinery.
(v) Supply of Marine Diesel Engines and Diesel Pumps:
GFCCA holds the agency for Ashok Leyland marine
diesel engines. Outboard motors (together with
spare parts) are imported. The boat building yard
provides good engine repair facilities. During
1974/75 the unit made a profit of Rs 0.49 M.
(c) Mangrol: GFCCA ice factory at Mangrol has been closed.
The plant has been dismantled and machinery transferred
to Bombay and Veraval. Losses now shown against the unit
are due to watch and ward charges for equipment still
lying idle on the site.
(d) Palanpur: GFCCA is engaged in fishing operations at Dantivada,
Machhu I and II and other reservoirs in Gujarat. GFCCA employs
its own fishermen to harvest fish which are marketed in Ahmeda-
bad, Bombay, Calcutta & Delhi. During 1974/75 this unit made
a profit of Rs 0.07 M.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(e)  Jafrabad:  GFCCA markets dry laminated Bombay ducks as well
as shark fins, the fish mauus which are procured from pri-
mary cooperatives and fishermen along the coast. The unit
had a loss of Rs 0.09 M during 1974/75, mainly due to market
price fluctuations.
(f)  Ahmadabad:  GFCCA has set up a modern nylon net plant with a
capacity of producing 30,000 kgs. of fish nets webbing and
50,000 kgs. of netting twine per annum. The building for
housing the plants has been financed from GFCCA's own funds
and a loan obtained from GOG for machinery and equipment.
Profit during 1974/75 was Rs 0.36 M.
12.       A summary of GFCCA branch activities is shown in Table 4.
Borrowings:
13.       GFCCA borrows term loans and workings capital from GOG, Gujarat
State Cooperative Bank and commercial banks--full details are shown in
Table 5.  Although the exact amount is not identifiable, substantial loans
have been recovered from ultimate borrowers but these amounts have, in agree-
ment with GOG, been employed in GFCCA's own business instead of repaying GOG
dues.  As of 30 June 1975, GFCCA was in arrears towards repayment of prin-
cipal and interest of Rs 3.64 M and Rs 1.64 M, respectively in respect to
instalments due towards GOG loans. In 1971, GOG agreed to convert loans
amounting to Rs 2.5 M into equity, the remaining amount of GOG borrowing,
together with accrued interest, would be treated as interest-free loan for
a period of three years, and, thereafter, interest would start accruing to
GOG unless on a review GOG considers it necessary to extend the period. This
position was subject to GFCCA fulfilling the following requirements:
(a)  GFCCA by-laws should be amended to provide for a clear
majority for GOG nominated members of the board and
the executive committee; and
(b)  Any two of GOG nominees jointly shall be given a power
of veto under which any resolution passed by the board
or its executive committee could be set aside until it
is referred to and advice obtained from GOG within one
month in that behalf."
The above GOG decisions have not been given effect to so far pending approval
of the proposal by the board of GFCCA. GFCCA is well within its maximum bor-
rowing power of up to ten times paid up share capital and reserves minus accu-
mulated losses.
14.       A summary showing GFCCA financial progress from 1970-1975 is given
in Table 6.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Summary and Conclusions
15.       GFCCA has been burdened with accumulated losses for the past sev-
eral years. In 1973/74 it was, however, able to wipe off those accumulated
losses and show a small profit. Although profits and losses tended to
fluctuate considerably, the main contributors to profits were: (a) boat
building yard; (b) marine engines and outboard motors; (c) nylon net plant;
and (d) inland fish trade. The main contributors to losses were: (a) free-
zing plants; (b) ice plants; (c) fresh fish trade; and (d) dry fish trade.
16.       GFCCA suffers from poor management, inadequate staff (particularly
accountants), lack of budgetary and inventory control and forward planning.
Its financial situation is precarious, particularly if all the bad debts and
obsolete fixed assets were to be written off. Clearly, GFCCA must be rehabil-
itated financially and its organization strengthened before it can be consid-
ered a suitable borrower from IDA/Bank funds.
Recommendations
17.       Assurances have been given that the report by ECOTECH, the appointed
financial and management consultants, approved by ARDC and GOG, would be
implemented, and that GFCCA would appoint additional engineers and a market-
ing manager for this purpose. Inter-alia the proposals should take into
consideration the immediate engagement of accountants to set up properly
organized accounting, budgetting and inventory control systems, strengthen-
ing of top management, the engagement of a qualified engineers and a market-
ing manager, and a review of the capital structure after writing off bad
debts and worthless assets.
C. Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd. (GSCB)
Introduction
18.       GSCB was established in May 1960, when a separate State of Gujarat
was created by bifurcation of the former State of Bombay. GSCB took over the
assets and liabilities of Bombay State Cooperative Bank Ltd. in Gujarat. GSCB
is the apex body of the short and medium term cooperative credit structure in
the State. This structure consists of primary cooperative societies (PCS) at
village level, central cooperative banks (CCB) at district or intermediary
level and GSCB at the apex. CCB are federations of PCS in the districts while
GSCB is a federation of CCB in the State.
Membership
19.       GSCB membership consists of CCB, other state cooperative organiza-
tions (such as Gujarat State Cooperative Marketing Society Ltd. and Gujarat
State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd., (GSLDB), urban cooperative
banks, industrial, and other cooperative societies) and covers the entire
State of Gujarat. Membership increased from 162 on June 30, 1973, to 208 on
June 30, 1975, mainly because of registration of new urban cooperative banks.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
Management
20.       GSCB affairs are managed by a Board of Directors, the composition
of which is as under:
Representatives of:                                        Number
Central cooperative banks (1 each)                           17
Urban cooperative banks and banking unions                    2
Industrial and other cooperative societies                    1
Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank               1
Gujarat State Cooperative Marketing Society Ltd.              1
Nominees of GOG                                               3
Managing Director (ex-officio), if appointed                  1
Members to be coopted                                         2
28
The post of Managing Director has not yet been filled and the current strength
of the board is 27. The Board of Directors has delegated most of its powers
to different committees (executive committee, staff committee, industrial
finance committee, etc.) which meet frequently and as required. The Board
generally deals with policy matters and other important items. The Chief
Executive Officer of GSCB is the Manager, who is assisted by two Joint Man-
agers, one in charge of accounts and the other finance and development. The
accounts section consists of maintenance of books of accounts, banking trans-
actions, investments, etc., while the other section takes care of loans and
advances, inspection and supervision, developmental activities, etc. Each
section, under a Joint Manager, is in charge of an experienced officer who in
turn is supported by necessary staff. An organization chart is shown in
Table 7. GSCB, being an apex cooperative institution, has refrained from
opening branches so there is no competition between it and member banks in
attracting local business. CSCB deals with PCS only through CCB.
Audit
21.       The accounts of GSCB are audited by government auditors under the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies.
Source of Funds
22.       GSCB has three important sources of funds, viz., borrowings from
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), deposits, and share capital. As at the end
of June 1975, Rs 808 M of its borrowings represented advances from RBI, while
deposits stood at Rs 576 M. Paid up share capital on June 30, 1975, amounted
to Rs 39 M. RBI sanctions short term and medium term credit limits for each
CCB, that are routed through GSCB, which in turn adds its own resources to
those borrowings to meet CCB credit needs. In addition, GSCB also borrows
against its securities from RBI to meet its other requirements. Total depos-
its collected by GSCB are sizeable and most are term deposits. As of



ANNEX 11
Page 8
June 30, 1975, out of the total deposits of Rs 576 M, current and savings
deposits accounted for only Rs 44 M and Rs 1 M, respectively, while another
Rs 5 M were by way of money at call and short notice. Fixed deposits at Rs
526 M contributed nearly 92% of GSCB total deposits. Other sources of funds
include Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) and National
Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). ARDC has so far approved 3
schemes to GSCB, one for storage and the other two for fisheries. Re-
finance of Rs 0.2 M has been drawn by GSCB from ARDC under the first scheme,
but as regards fisheries schemes GSCB has not yet drawn any refinance.
Use of Funds
23.       After maintaining the statutory cash reserve and liquid assets, GSCB
funds are mostly utilized in loans and advances, which fall in different cate-
gories. Short and medium term agricultural loans are advanced to CCB mostly
against borrowings from RBI. Out of GSCB total advances of Rs 1,345 M on
June 30, 1975, Rs 732 (about 54%) represented short term loans, Rs 610 M
(about 45%) medium term loans and Rs 3 M (about 1%) long term loans. Be-
sides CCB, other institutions financed by GSCB include GSLDB to which interim
finance is advanced (besides purchase of debentures issued by GSLDB), Gujarat
State Cooperative Marketing Society, cooperative sugar and spinning mills.
Block capital requirements of cooperative processing units are met by GSCB
with the help of financial assistance of NCDC. GSCB has availed itself of
refinance facilities from RBI for granting working capital loans to small
scale industries through urban cooperative banks and to industrial coopera-
tive societies through CCB. GSCB liquid assets consisting of cash, bank
balances and investments in approved securities amounted to Rs 183 M as of
June 30, 1975. Investments in fixed assets (premises and dead stock) was
Rs 2.6 M.
Recovery
24.       GSCB deals mostly with institutions and collections have been 100%
of demand. There are no overdues.
Operating Results
25.       Since inception GSCB has been operating at a profit.  Annual net
profits have been steadily increasing and GSCB declared a dividend of 9% on
share capital for the last two years, 1973/74 and 1974/75. The main source
of income has been interest on loans and other investments. Cost of estab-
lishment for the year 1974/75 constituted about 2.5% of total income for the
year.
Financial Position
26.       GSCB has been treated as a scheduled cooperative bank by RBI from
July 1966, when cooperative banks were brought under RBI statutory control.
In May 1972, GSCB was issued a license by RBI for carrying on banking busi-
ness. Its financial position for the last 3 years is summarized in Tables
8 and 9.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Proposed Staffing of Fisheries Terminal Division
Veraval     Mangrol      Cost Rs
Managing Director            I            -          30,000
General Manager              1            1          39,000
Deputy Manager               1            1          27,000
Accountant                   1            1          20,400
Market Superintendent        2            1          27,000
Salesmen (Auctioneers)       6            3         81,000
Sales Clerk                  6            3          36,000
Cashier                      3            1          24,000
Clerk/Typist                 4            2          36,000
Peon                         3            1          14,400
Foreman                      3            2          21,600
Watchmen                     4            2          21,600
Driver                       4            2          24,000
Temporary Labor               as required            81,925
483,525
June 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association, Ltd.
Board of Directors
Commissioner of Fisheries (GOG)                                     Chairman
Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies (GOG)
Managing Director, Gujarat State Financial Corporation
Managing Director, Gujarat Agro Marine Products Ltd.
Managing Director, Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd.
Financial Advisor and Deputy Secretary to Agriculture
Forest and Cooperative Department (GOG)
Commissioner of Industries (Or his Representative) GOG
General Manager, Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association Ltd.
One Director nominated by GOG
Two members elected from among affiliated cooperatives
in South Gujarat
One member elected from among affiliated cooperatives
in Jamnagar and Kutch
Three members elected from among affiliated
cooperatives in Saurashtra (other than Jamnagar and Kutch)
One member nominated by the Board and approved by the
Commissioner of Fisheries to represent individual
members
June 20, 1976



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat Fisheries Central Oooperative Association Ltd.
Organization Chart
GENERAL MANAGER
(AHMEABAD)
Deput  General   Senior Manager    Senior Manager    Senio  Marnager                        Maniager    Manager
Manager
Veraval Complex     Ahmedabad        Ahmedabad              Bombay         Ahmedabad        Palanpur      Delhi
(H.O.)       (Post Vacant)      Freezing Plant      Nylon- Net      (Fresh       (Fresh Fish)
Administration                      & Fresh & Dry        Plant            Water
Accounts                         Fish Sales                            Fish)
June 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 4
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Limited
Summary of Activities 1970-1975
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__----------
Profit (+) Loss (-) during the year
Item
1970/71        1971/72        1972/73         1973/74        1974/75
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _
(Rs. '000)
Freezing plant               -   60          +    5          -  226        -   329          -  371
Canning plant                -   27         -   25           -   18        -      3         -    3
Veraval ice plant            -    4         -   69           -   50        -    71          -   77
Mangrol ice plant            -     4        -    9           -    4        -      2         -    8
Boat building yard           +   10         +  163           +  670        +   )47          +  226
Petrol pump                  +    7          +   12          +     7       -      5         +     3
Engines                      +   20          +   45          +  253        +   433          +  b86
Nylon net factory            +  209          +  384          +  290         +   498         +  363
Inland fish                       -              -           +  245        +    88          +   75
Fresh fish                   -  187         -  213           -   43        +   135          -  393
PJry fish                    -   32         -   37           -    8        -    32          -   90
Trawling                          -              -                -              -          +    5
Oarrier launches                  -              -                -              -          +     4
-   68         +  256          + 1,116        + 1,159         +  220
June ?0, 1976



ANNEX 11
INDIA                                               Table 5
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
GuJarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Limited - Borrowings as at June 30, 1975
When          Amount                                            Rate of   Term of  Amount out-
borrowed       originally            Purpose                    Interest  loan       standing at
Nature of_oro         w _        _       __         borrwed              _                                       (years) of 6/30/75
___  1    _    ______2                        3                     4                          5          6           7
a) Government loans
1) Grow more food 1957-58            Feb.1958          300       Distribution of fishery requi-          5%       10           83
sites to fishermen
2) GMF 1960-61                       Nov.1960          324                 -do-                         5%         7          107
3)  7 HmP Bukh engine 1              Dec.1960           59       Distribution of 23 Bukh marine         5%         7            3
engines to fishermen
4) Nylon net plant                   Dec.1960          400       Setting up of nylon net plant           5%        8          210
5)  IBM and OBM (engines)            March 1961         67       Loans to fishermen for purchase         5%        7           23
of in-board and out-board motors
for their boats
6)  0DM (engines)                    March 1961        128                  -do-                         5%        7           46
7)  Mangrol ice plant                Oct. 1961         226       Transfer of departmental ice           5%        15           97
plant to GFCCA
8)  Carrier launch                   March 1962         75       Purchase of carrier launch by          5%        10           43
GFCA
9)  Engine                               ..            267       Distribution of 33 marine engines    5%           7          101
to fishermen
10)  Veraval ice factory &            Oct. 1961         442       Transfer of departmental ice-cum-    5%          15          202
cold storage                                                 cold storage plant to GFCCA
11) Central Govt. develop-            Sept. 1962        500       Purchase of 4 trucks, 2 insulated    4W          10          347
sent and marketing - I                                      vans, 2 autorickshaws, 2 tempo vans
3 refrigerated cablines, 1 carrier
launch and 1 freezing plant at
7ernal .a/
12) Central Govt. development           jan. 1963       1,000    Short term loan for supply of fish-   4t           10        814
and marketing - II                                          ing gear to fishermen, construction
of carrier launch for GFCCA, supply
of 33 out-board and 43 in-board
engines to fishermen, supply of
wooden boats to fishermen ard 4 /2
go-downs for GFCCA.
13)         -do-      III               July & Sept.   1,500    Yarketing of fish and fishery             4it       10      1,492
1964                 products
14)  Boat building yard                 April & March    133    For GFCCA boat building yard at           5it        7        101
1963                 Veraval
v ' Marketing - I                      Sept. 1971        10O    Not mentioned                             7;0       10         70
16)     -do-   - II                    Feb. 1972          100          -do-                               73        10         70
17)     -do-   - III                    Jan. 1973          90          -do-                              7A         10         72
18)     -do-   - IV                    June 1973          100          -do-                               7W        10         80
19)     -do-   - v                     July 1973          100          -do-                               7L1       10         90
20)  Ashok Leyland engine              Dec. 1972           41    Allotment .f 1 marine engine to          N.A     N.A         24
GFCCA on loan cum-subsidy basis
for its own fishing boat
b)  Cash credit from Gujarat          Dec. 1973       1,150    Purchase and sale of dry fish,           12W     S.T.         810
State Coop. Bank .td.            (Limit renewed            nylon net plant and for boat yard
upto July &
Oct. 1975)
c)  Cash credit from Syndicate         Dec. 1973        300      Packing credit                                 S.T.         300
bank
1/  Instead of freezing plant GOG allowed GFCCA to set up a canning plant (cost of Rs 93,000 and Rs 43,000 spent on
rented premises which have since been vacated) now closed down.  The plant dismantled and now lying in a godown.
2/  GFCCA has constructed only one godewa at Jafrabad for the storage of dry fish at a cost of Rs 75,000.
June 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 6
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Limited
Financial Position 1970-1975
Item                 1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74       1974/75
(Rs. M.)
Paid up capital                    0.98        0.98          0.99        0.99          1.59
Reserves and other funds           0.78        0.92          1.16         1.66         1.67
Borrowings                         5.12        5.65          6.33         6.40         6.84
Other liabilities                  0.78        0.99          1.48         3.01          .99
Fixed assets                       3.40         3.67         3.50         3.33         3.21
Other investments                  0.01        0.01          0.01         0.01         0.01
Bank balances & deposits           o.65        0.25          0.36         0.39         1.06
Loans & advances                   0.82        0.91          1.36         1.56         1.90
Sundry debtors,
staff advances, etc.               0.79        1.00          1.85         2.79         2.30
Closing stock & current
assets                             0.98        1.89          2.33         3.86         6.45
Profit -c Loss:
(a) Profit (+) Loss (-)
during the year               -0.2L       +0.16         +0.31        +C.46        +0.02
(b) Accumulated profit, (+)
or loss (-)                   -0.93       -0.77         -043        40-03        +0.05
Defaults under borrowings:
(a)  Principal                      NA         2.90          3.25         3.72         3.64
(b)  Interest                       NA         1.L7          1.h7         1.L7         1.64
Au-is  2    1976



INDIA
GUJARAT FIShERIES PROJECT
Gujarat State CooDerative Bank Ltd. - Organisation Chart
Chairman
I
Managing Director
Manager                                                   Secretary to the Board
Assistant Secretary
Joint Lager                              Superintendent        Joint Manager
Finance & Development                         General Section   Accounts & Banking                        Establishment Section
Operations
Est tes Inspection Loans Industrial Statistics
June 20, 1976                                           



ANNEX 11
Table 8
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd. - Financial Statement 1973-75
Rs M)
30.6.73     30.6.74    30.6k75
Membership
Cooperative Societies (Members)                161          174         207
Individual and Others (Members)                   1           1           1
Total  1621                     20
LIABILITIES    1. Paid-u   Share Capital
State Government                             12           17          17
Cooperative Societies                        17           17          22
Individual and others                  o                   -           -
Total   29           3I          39
2. Reserves
Statutory Reserve Fmd                          9          10          12
Agricultural Credit Stabilization Fund       33           38          45
Bad Debt Reserve                              5            8           9
Other Reserves                                 8           8
Total   55           64          7
3. Deposits
Current                                      39444
Savings                                       1            1           1
Fixed                                       419          495         526
Others                                        9           10           5
Total 6r           3
4. Other Borrowings
(i)  Reserve Bank of India
Short Term                             110          301         284
Medium Term                     Tt       o          244         524
Total go                       n
(ii)  Others                                   1                        2
(iii)  Total Other Borrowings                 351          548         810
5. Other Liabilities                              9           53         67
6. Profit and Loss Account                        4            7          7
Total Liabilities   =91
ASSETS         1. Cash on Hand                                   -            -          -
2. Balance with Banks                            22           22         37
3. Investments
Government Securities                        119         120          84
Other Trustees Securities                    56           58          59
Others                                        2            3           3
Total  177         ll          146
4. Loans and Advances
Short Tern                                  409          706         732
Medium Term                                  302          299        610
Long Term                                     -             3
Total   113       TM 
5. Other Assets                                   6           45         46
Total Assets  916        1,256       1.574
August 23, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 9
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd. - Profit & Loss Account 1973-75
(Rslt 0o )
YEAR ENDING
30.6.73     30.6.74      30.6.75
Expenditure
Interest on deposits, borrowings, etc.             40,178      61,178       89,428
Salaries, allowances & provident fund               1,374       1,728        2,399
Directors and local committee members
fees, etc.                                             55          98          126
Other establishment expenses                          122         198          314
Auditors' fees                                         15          22           23
Depreciation and repairs                               95           98         148
Other expenditure                                     221       3,000       12,112
Net Profit                                          4,126       7,030        7,242
Total             46,186       73,352     111,792
Income
Interest and discount                             45,729       70,371      111,476
Commission, exchange & brokerage                      1hO         171          166
Other receipts                                        317       2,810          150
Total             46,186       73,352     111,792
Dividend declared (%)                                6 %          9%           9%
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page   1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Domestic Market
1.        During the last decade, India's total fish production increased at
a compound rate of about 4% per annum, and by 1975 reached 2.4 million tons
of which 1.6 million tons were marine and 800,000 tons were fresh water fish.
During the same period per capita availability 1/ of fish increased from about
2.7 to about 3.9 kg. GOI estimates that 30% of India's population is vegetarian
and that per capita consumption of the fish eating population was about 6.5 kg
in 1975. Actual per capita consumption varies widely, depending primarily upon
dietary (religious) preference and, to a lesser extent, upon availability of
fish in a given market. However, there is little supporting data on fish
consumption habits, market size, marketing channels, and market potential.
2.        Marketing of marine fish is dominated by market forces in Bombay,
which is the largest depositary of fresh and dried marine fish for consump-
tion, transhipment and for export. Fish prices throughout India are deter-
mined at Bombay's Crawford Market by a small group of traders who set prices
based on daily volume of fish landed and orders for transhipment through
Bombay to other market centers. This also applies to the separate dried
fish market.
3.        In Gujarat, fish production is 200,000 tons of which 190,000 tons
is marine fish. This gives a per capita availability of 44.4 kg. However,
as about 85% of Gujarat's population is vegetarian, less than 15% of the
fish is consumed locally; about 80% of the fish is shipped to Bombay and
5% to Delhi and other inland markets.
Landings
4.        In Gujarat, there are two main landing periods; early morning
for gill netters and late afternoon for trawlers. Gill netters tend to
catch relatively more expensive table fish, while trawlers catch relatively
more trash fish and shrimp (Table 1); thus there are differences in landing
and handling procedures during mornings and afternoons. Landings are either:
(a) consumed fresh; (b) frozen; (c) dried; or (d) converted to fish meal. On
one day (or night) trips, which produce the bulk of landings, no ice is used.
Fish which can be "exported" fresh, primarily to Bombay, are iced (crushed
1/ Total production divided by population.



ANNEX 12
Page   2
block ice) after unloading. Fish to be marketed fresh in Veraval go directly
to the fish market, where they may be iced. Shrimp, plus some fish such as
cuttlefish and squid, for foreign export go directly to the processing plants
in Veraval, where they are iced pending processing and freezing, or are iced
for shipment to Bombay for processing and freezing. Dried fish intended for
direct human consumption is gutted, slashed, slightly salted and sun-dried
on wire, wooden racks or unpaved ground before "export". Other fish - trash
fish - is frequently dried on the ground before conversion to fish powder for
use in stock feed. Often insects and rodents mix freely with dried fish while
it is on the ground. Trash fish intended for conversion to fish meal for ex-
port goes directly to the fish meal plant and is iced only in the event of a
surplus of fish or a plant breakdown.
Marketing
5.        Marketing channels are varied, depending upon the product, but are
largely in the private sector. The three Gujarat cooperatives involved in
marketing handle less than 10% of total production. Both marketing channels
and prices are affected by advances made to fishermen (a process known locally
as "binding") when there is little or no fishing for three months during the
south west monsoon. Advances from traders and cooperatives during this season
range from Rs 3,000 to Rs 8,000 per boat. In exchange for this advance, fish-
ermen agree to sell the coming season's catch to the trader generally below
market prices. This agreement usually covers the entire season, but in some
cases prices are fixed every 15 days.  In any case, fishermen are "bound" to
sell their catch to the person or organization making the advance. No inter-
est is charged as such and the advance is repaid from landings.
6.        Fresh fish in Gujarat are usually taken to the local market and
sold by the fishermen's wives. Fresh fish for export out of Gujarat are
shipped in ice by sea, road or rail. Shipments by sea are decreasing and
the bulk of the fish is now moved by road. About 75,000 tons go to Bombay
annually, largely by road. Rail shipments ate primarily to Delhi (15,000
tons), Calcutta, Ajmer, Jaipur and Kanpur (16,000 tons). In Bombay, trucked
fish go directly to Crawford Market where they are auctioned under a maximum
price ceiling set by fish merchants. From Crawford Market fish may go direc-
tly to a retail outlet or may pass through the hands of one or more additional
middlemen before reaching retailers. Fish from vessels fishing out of Bombay
are landed at Sassoon dock where they are auctioned to traders. Fish tran-
shipped by sea from Veraval are off-loaded and moved by truck to Crawford
Market auction.
7.        Although some fish frozen in Veraval are held in Bombay and sold
when landings are low or non-existent (south west monsoon period), most of
the frozen fish (largely pomfret) are exported to west Asia (Bahrain, Kuwait)
and south east Asia (Singapore). These fish are transhipped from Bombay.
Frozen shrimps are largely exported from Veraval, although some are frozen
in Bombay and slhipped from there or frozen in Veraval and transhipped from
Bombay, directly to Japan (over 40%) or USA (over 30%). Similarily, frozen



ANNEX 12
Page   3
cuttlefish goes directly to Japan. International marketing channels for
shrimp are well established and may be through direct sales or on consignment
to brokers.
8.        Traders in Veraval buying fish for drying usually have agents in
Bombay or are themselves agents of Bombay traders. Dried fish are moved to
Bombay mostly by road, with perhaps one-third moving by ship. A substantial
proportion - perhaps as much as 50% - is exported from Bombay to Ceylon, Mauri-
tius and Indonesia. The bulk of the remaining dried fish is consumed in
Maharashtra, and some goes to Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal.
Buyers from other States come to Bombay and Bombay merchants also have repre-
sentatives in other States.  Fish meal made in Veraval, 65% protein, is almost
entirely exported.  There is only one plant and sales are through one of the
owners in Bangkok.
9.        Marketing channels for fresh fish sold in Veraval and for export
products such as shrimp are easily traced.  Marketing channels for fresh and
dried fish sold in India are not clear after they pass through the hands of
the initial traders in Bombay. There is need for a marketing study which
would, among other things, identify marketing channels, record prices
at successive marketing levels, measure demand and per capita consumption
in various areas and socio-economic groups, examine adequacy of infrastruc-
ture including identification of bottlenecks, determine the need for cold
store chains, etc.
Prices
10.       There is a world market for export items such as shrimp, and the
prices for such items are set outside of India. For items consumed within
India, the prices for marine products are largely determined in Bombay and the
prices for fresh water fish are determined in Calcutta. Information on fish
and shrimp prices is given in Table 2. According to the fish wholesale price
index, the price of fish in 1975 was 413% of the price of fish in 1966. How-
ever, the price of pomfret and rohu (a species of carp) in 1975 were only 174%
and 338%, respectively, of the 1966 prices; the corresponding value for export
shrimp was 253%. Prices of shrimp which stagnated in 1974, are continuing up-
ward and are expected to increase.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Relative Importance of Catch Components, by Quantity
and Value, for Four t,pes of Boats, Veraval 1975.
(Four largest Values in each Column Underlined.)
Species           Gill Netter      Trawler      Canoe W OBM/      Canoe /
1.  White pomfret           2.91    5.30    0.10   0.24   6.01  16.66    4.94    6.8
2.  Black ponfret           1.06    0.39    0.04   0.08    3.04    8.44    1.72    5.84
3.  Silver bar              7.18    2.61    3.85    1.07   4.19    1.39    3.82    1.56
4.  Prawns                  3.72  45.25    4.76  72.57    0.78   14.31      -       -
5.  Jew Fish               1362  104.8    4.96    6.87    7.22  13.17    8.68        68
6.  Thread fin              8.86   12.08    3.16    5       5.30  11.01    .16    l.
7.  Indian shad (H. toli)   3.78    4.82    0.36    0.59    4.44    8.62    4.82   1.
8.  Indian shad(H. ilisha)  1.77    2.74    0.15    0.29    2.55    6.01    3.04   8.77
9.  Eel                     5.14   3.36    2.57    2.14   5.01    5.00    4.89    5.98
C10. Cat fish              11.56   2.10   10.90    2.52  10.10    2.80  10-07    3.43
11.  Seer fish              1.24   3.28    0.1    0.27    3.03    6.72    2.05    5.56
L2.  Sharks               12.20    1.61    8.99    2.08   10.47    2.90   10.61    3.61
13.  Shrimps                1.93   0.88    4.75   2.74   1.23    0.85    0.53    0.45
14.  Others                24.97    1.09  55.27    3.07  36.16    2.41   38.69    3.16
Total                 99.94 100.36  100.00  100.01  100.23  100.29  100.02  100.02
Q = Quantity (kg)          59,966         121,878         16,477          7,858
V = Value (Rs)                   164,899          263,698        29,724          11,561
Weighted mean Rs/kg            2.75            2.16             1.80            1.47
1/' Primarily fishing gillnets.
Source: GOG Department of Fisheries
(JCM:mbw June 24, 1976)



ANNEX 12
Table 2
GUJARAT FISHERIFIS PROJECT
Fish and Shrimp Prices in India, 1962 - 1975
Fish whole-     Pomfret        Rohu           Shrimp
sale price      wholesale      wholesaJe      wholesale
Year           index           Drice          price 2/       Drice-
(Rs/kg)        (Rs/kg)        (Rs/kg)
1962             133.9
1963             143.5
1964             174.0
1965             248.6                                         5.89
1966             284.9            4.30          3.25          10.11
1967             315.2            5.50          5.50          11.62
1968             327.1            4.50          5.50          10.86
1969             286.9            3.25          5.50          12.26
1970             289.4            5.25          7.00          10.96
1971             343.4            3.00          6.0o          12.52
1972             454.5            3.00          7.00          16.66
1973             654.0            5.50          8.00          i8-33
1974             999.8            6.oo         11.00          18.55
1975           1,176.1            7.50         11.00          23.79
1975 41962       878%
1974 - 1966      351%             140%          338%           183%
19754- 1966      413%             174%          338%           235%
1/ Wholesale price quarter ending in March, Bombay
/ Wholesale price quarter ending in March, Calcutta
3/ Average value (FOB) of shrimp exported. Most recent value is for
1975-1976 (April 1 - March 30).
Source: Fish, G0I Ministry Agriculture & Irrigation,; Shrimp, Marine
Products Export Development Authority.
(JCM:mbw June 24, 1976)



ANNE1 13
Table 1
Page 1
GUJAIRAT FI!H1ERII2 PWJXC
Cash Flew ProJections
14.8 meter Trawler
y---------------- years -----------------
11     2-8      9:-10    11      12-114   15
(Rs r-00)
I.   INCOME STATEMENT
Gross Sales                       75.9     189.,-'  189.7   189.7   189.7   189.7
less commiission to PT0 1       (o.8)     (1.9)    (1.9)   (1.9)   (1.9)   (1.9)
Net sales                         75.1     187.8    187.8   187.8   187.8   187.8
Operating Costs
Fuel and lubricants               17.921/   44.7WV
Maintenance of hull and engine    3.6 3/     9.12/
Gear maintenance and replacement  1.0O/
Wages                              8.6/    22.6k'
Food                               1.23/     3.1..
Foe                                0.73/     1 811/
Insurance                          3.04/       5 75T2/
Port dues                          0.-4      1.9E/
Miscellaneous & overheads (10%)   3.6        9.5
Total operating costs       40.0    104.2    104.2   i^.a   104.2  104.2
Operating Income            35.1      83.6     83.6    83.6    83.6    83.6
* In all the financial models it is assumed that the enterprise (entrepreneur) veing
a cooperative (member of cooperative) is exempted from income tax.
1/ 4 months of fishing during year 1
2/ From year 2 total landing per annum 115 ton of which 11.5 ton shrizp (10%)
and 103.5 ton fish.  ShriM    12% Cl, 38% C2, 50% C3; prices per ton
Rs 31,000, 10,500 and2,2w for Cl, C2 and C3 respectively, average Rs 8,960/
ton. Fish  14% Cl, 11% C2, 16% C3, 69% C4-5; prices per ton Ra 3,500, 2,600
1,100 and34( for Cl, C2, C3 and C4-5 respectively, average per ton Rs 837.
In year 1 40% of the landing in year 2 and thereafter.
2/ The cost in year 1 40% of the cost in year 2+
k/ Diesel-205 days, 12 hrs./day, 12 l./hr., * Rs 1.40; oil 295 1. (1% of diesel)
@ Rs 10; grease 30 kg. @ Rs 14.
5/ 5% of capital cost of hull, engine and misc. it4oa (Rs 182,100).
6/ 10% of capital cost.
T/ 40% oaf capital cost.
8/ Wages for four months
2/ Wages per month during 9 months season (Rs): skipper 500, driver 450, 4 crew
300 each. Wages during 3 months monsoon 50% of the above rates.
/  Includes fish consumed on boat and fish taken hone; estimated value Ra 2.50
day for each crew, 205 days.
11/ 27 tons at Rs 65; based on 1 ton of ice per ton of shrimp and fish of Cl and C2.
12/ 3.75% of investment for vessel, Rs 250 per annum for crew.
13/ 4 months at Rs 100.
1L/ Berthing - Rs 1,200; slipping based on an average use of the slipway once every
1.5 years at Rs 1,000.



Table 1
Page 2
____________------ years --------------------
1      2-8        19      11    12-11a    15
(Rs '000)
II.  CASH FLOW
Tnlowr
Funds generated                 35.1    83.6       83.6    83.6   83.6     83.6
Project loan (87.5%)           168.1
Borrower4s contribution (12.5%) 24.0
Total Inflow            227.2    FQ.6      83.6   83.6  83.6        83.6
Outflow
Investment                     192.1       _               87.71'   _    (48.5)?/
Debt aervicel/                    9.2   35.7        -        -       -       -
Total outflow           201.3   35.7                88 (5)
Net cash flow                   25.9   147.9       83.6  (E4.  )          133.   132
II. FIIUNCI  E.NEFl/OOS
Beneffit4                       75.1   187.8      187.8  187.8  187.8    187.8
Cost!/                         232.1  104.2    104.2  191.9  104.2    55 . 7
Net benefit                   (157.0)   83.6       83.6  (14.1 ) 83.6    132.1
IV. FINWCIL IDICATORS
FER                                     53%
FRR on Equity                            over 55%
Debt Service Coverage                    2.314
1/ Replacement of engine.
2/ Salvage values: hull and miscellaneous items 10%, engine 40%, gear 40%.
3/ In year 1 interest only (on 50% of the loan); the principal is
amortized in yars 2-8 at 11% amul interest.
4/ Net sales,
i/ Operating and investment costs.
July 14, 1976



ANNEX 13
Table 2
Page   1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Canoe with Outboard Motor
-------------Years ---------
I.  INCOME STATEMENT                                1     2-5      6     7-9    10
(Rs I000 )
Net Salesl/                                  22.5   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0
Operating Costs
Fuel and lubricants2/                 2.2
Maintenance of boat3/                 0.5
Maintenance of moto X /               0.5
Gear maintenance and replacementV/   3.7
Wages6/                                7.2
Food7        8/                        1.5
Miscellaneous-                        0.8
Total operating costs                          4    v        v-4      4    v-4
Operating Income                              6.1    8.6    8.6    8 6    8 .6
1/ From year 2, 16 ton fish; 20% Cl, 20% C2, 10% C3, 50% C4, Price per ton
Rs 3,330, 2,470, 1,050 and 480 for C1, C2, C3 and C4 respectively.  Average
price Rs 1,500/ton.   50 kg. lobsters  @ Rs 20.  In year 1, 90% of the value
of catch year 2+
2/ 2 hrs. of operation per day, 200 days per year total 40o0 hrs. per annum;
35 hrs. on petrol at 2.5 l/hr. total 87.5 1. 0 Rs 3.60
365 hrs. on kerosene at 2.5 I-./hr. total  912.5 1.  e Rs 1.25
Oil 65 l. @ Rs 10; grease 5 kg. e Rs 1
3/ 3% of capital cost    4/ 9% of capital cost        5/ 40% of basic cost
6/ 3 crew; 1 at Rs 300/month, 2 at Rs 250/month, for 9 months
7/ Includes fish consumed on boat and fish taken home; estimated value based on
Rs 2050/day for each crew, 200 days.
8/ 5% of operating costs.



ANNEX 13
Table 2
Page   2
-------Years-------------
1-  2-5    6    7    8    9    10
(Rs '000)
IIo   CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds ge2erated                              6.1  8.6   8.6  8.6  8.6  8.6   8.6
Subsidyl                                      2.7
Project loan                                 26.3
Borrower's contribution (7.5%)                2.
Capitalised interestV/                       2 .9
Total inflow                  4.4 8.6   8.6  8.6  8.6  8.6   8.6
Outflow
Investment                                  3i  .   -    5.6-/ -    -    -   (8.7)/
Debt service5L/                               2.9  6.2   6.2  6.2  6.2   -       -
Total outflow                 3h.3  6.2  11.8  6.2  6.2   -   (8.7)
Net Cash Flow                                 6.1  2.4   3.2  2.4  2.4  8.6  17.3
III. FINANCIkL BENEFIT/COST
Benefit                                     22.5 25.0  25.0 25.0 25.0 25.0  25.0
Cost                                        47.8 16.4  22.0 16.4 16.4 16.4   7.7
Net Benefit                                 (25.3) 8.6   3.0  8.6  8.6  8.6  17.3
IV.  FINANCIAL. INDICATORS
FRR                       30%
FRR on Equity             over 55%
Debt Service Coverage:  1.39  (years 2-8)
1/ 7.5% of cost of boats 15% of the cost of sale and
equipment, 10% of cost of nets and Rs 4OO for out-board motor.
2/ 11% of loan.
3/ Replacement of engine.
4/ Salvage value of canoe (33%) and nets (40%).
5/ The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in yeara 2.8 at 11%
annual interest.
eJuTlz 11t, 197f



AhM=S 13
Table  3
Page   I
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection
Outboard Motor (for existing canoe)
1       2-3
(Rs '000)
I. INCOME STATEMENT
Net Sales                                17.9  25.0       25.0    25.0
Operating Costs-/
Fuel and lubricants                       -       2.2
Maintenance of boat                       0.5    0.5
Maintenance of motor                      -       005
Gear maintenance and replacement          3.7    3.7
Wages                                     7.2    7.2
Food                                      1.5    1.5
Miscellaneous                             o.6    0.8
Total Operating Costs              13.5   16.4      16.4    16.4
Operating Income                          4.4    8.6       8.6      8.6
Incremental Operating Income                     Lo2      4h2      4.2
1/ Without outboard motor
2/ It is assumed that the value of catch of canoe with OBM is 40% higher
than the value of catch of canoe without motor.
/ Assumptions are identical to those made in table 2 (canoe with outboard
motor).



ANNEX 13
Table 3
Page   2
------Years--------
1       2-3     4-5
(Rs '000)
II.     CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated               h .2      4.2      .2
Subsidy                        0.4
Project loan                  4.6
Borrower's contribution        0.6
(1o%)
Total inflow         9.8      4.2      4.2
Outflow
Investment                     5.6       -       -
Debt  .2/                    .--
Debt Service-                  1.9      1.9
Total outflow        7.5       1*9      -
Net cash flow                  2-3      2.3     4.2
III.   F_INANCIAL BENEFIT/COST
Bene*7tl/                      7.1      7.1      7.1
Cost_                          8.5      2.9     2.9
Net Benefit                   (1.4)    4.2       4.2
IV.    FINA.NCIAL INDICATORS
FRR                            over 55%
FRR on equity                  over 55%
Debt Service Coverage             2. 21
1/  Details in Anne  8.
2/ The principal is amortized in years 1-3 at 11% annual interest
3/  Incremental net sales .
4/ Incremental operating costs and investment.
.Jui'r 1 b, 1976



ANNEX 13
Table4
Page 1
fIDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Ice Plant 200 ton - Veraval
---     -----  years ----------------
1         2-8       9:-10          11
(Rs '000)
I.    fICCME STATEMENT
Gross sales"                     -          2,484     2,484         2,484
Less tax 12%                                ( 228                   ( 298
Net Sales                         -2,16               2,1186        2,186
Operating Costs
Water_/                                        69
Electricityy                                  211
Wages and ov rheadsW                          147
Maintenang2(                                   71
Ins ranceV                                     36
Rent/2'                                        48
Miscellaneousl                                58
Total Operating Costs                         6         6o6
Operating Income                                      1,546         1,546
r/ 38,220 ton at Rs 65.
2/ 1.2 times the production of ice at Rs 1.50/ton (100lo).
3/ 92 kwh/ton ice at Rs 0.06 kwh.
1X/ Wages per annum (Rs '000): manager 18.0, engineer 7.2, 24 laborers 86.4,
2clerks 10.8; additional 20% of the above for overheads.
5/ 22% of investment.
6/ 1% of investment.
7/ 4,400 m  at Rs 11/m2.
8/ 10% of operating costs: includes refrigerant salt, interest on
working capital, etc.



ANNEX 13
Table 4
Page 2
------------- years --------------
1         2-8       9-10        11
-      -~~(P's 10      -7
II.   CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated                   -        1,546    1,546         1,546
Project loan (80%)              2,856
Borrower's contribut+,on (20%)    714
Capitalized interest              157
Total inflow                    3, 727    1,546    %54            1,546
Outflow                                                                  2/
Investment 3                    3,570       -          -          ( 357 )
Debt service2                     157       639               -      -
Total outflow                   3,727       639        -          (_357_ )
Net Cash Flow                     0         907      1,546        1,903
III. FINANCIAL BENEF1T/COST
Benefit                           -       2,186     2,186         2,186
Cost                            3,570       620       6.40          283
Net Benefit                    (3,570)    1,546      1,5%6       1,9C3
IV.  FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FRR
FRR on Equity              over
Debt Service Coverage             2.42
j( 11% on 50% of the loan.
2/ Salvage value 10%.
2/ The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in years 2-8
at 11% annual interest.
kugust 24, 1976



ANNEY 13
Table 5
Page 1
INDIA
GWJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Ice Plant 75 ton - Mangrol
-------------   years   ----------
1        2-8        9-1011
(Ra 10"0oo-
I. .INCOME STATEMENT
Gross sales1/                          -       930         930          930
Less tax 12_                                   (112)      (112)        (112)
Net Sales                                            818                818
Operating Costs
Watere/                                          26
Electricity2/                                    79
Wages and overheads4/                            73
Maintenang, /                                    33
Insurance..                                      16
Rent.V                                          22
Miscellaneousy/                                  2
Total Operating Costs                                                  271
Operating Income
y/ 14,300 ton  Rs 65.
2/  1.2 times the production of ice at Rs 1.50/ton
3/ 92 kwh/ton ice at Rs 0.06/kwh.
W Wages per annum (Rs '000): manager 12.0, engineer 7.2, 10 laborers 36.0,
clerk  5.4; additional 20% of the above for overheads
j/ 2% of investment.
6/  1% of investment
7/   2,000 m2 at Rs 11/m2.
#/ 10% of operating costs: includes refrigerant salt, interest on working
capital, etc.



ANNEX 13
Tab-le 5
Page 2
-- - ---------years ----------   _
1        2-8       29-10         11
( * '000)
II.  CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated                      -       5 44       544          544
Project loan (80%)                 1,302
Borrower's contributln(20%)         325
Capitalized interest.                 72
Total Inflow                       1,699                4m5 44
Outflow                                                                 2/
Investment  g                     1,627        -                    (163)
Debt bervice                          72     292 __                -_63
Total Outflow                     1,699      292           -(163
Net Cash Flow                        0       252        544          707
III. FINANCIAL EENEFIT/COST
Benefit                              -       818        818          818
cost -                             1627    271          27           111
Net Benefit                       (l,627)51 4                        707
IV. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FRR                                 31 %
FRR on equity                     over,55%
Debt service coverage                1. 86
1/ 11% on 50  of the loan-
2/  Salvage value 10% of investment.
3] The principal and capitalized interest re asortized in years 2-8
at 11% annual interest.
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
DIDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
FrgsinM CcD1   18 ton - Vrwval
------------- years -------------
1         2-8       9-10         11
(Rol ooo)
I.  INCOME STATBE;N
Net SaleLf-                                   38,668    38,668       38,668
ODertingCosts
Raw m* eriaJ7U                                28,633
Water (                                           30
Electricity-'                                     30
Ice/                                             116
Wages and qverheads                             847
Transpor47                                       374
Materials2- 215
Maintenan e2'                                      78
isu   cef2/                                       39
Ren                 12/                           88
Miscellaneous (10%) -                            182
Interest on working capital2l_     8-
Total operating costs
Operating Income                     -         7,194     7,194        7,194
1 934 tons at Rs 41,400/ton f.o.b..
Price based on 27.5% Cl and 72.5%C2 at price f.o.b. per kg of Rs 53 and 37 for
Cl and 02 respectively.
2/ 1732 ton. 24% Cl (60% conversion), 76% C2 (50% conversion), average conversion
52.4%, cost per ton Rs 31,000 and 10,500 for Cl and C2 respectively plus 4.2%
tax. Average cost of raw material R9 16,068/ton including tax.
_/ 11.25 m3 (1000 1) per ton of raw material, at Rs 1.50/m3.
,/ 507.6 thousand kwh 6 Rs 60.
1 ton per ton of raw material; total 1,782 ton @  Rs 65.
6J Wages per annum (Rs'000): 1 manager 18.0, 3 engineers, 21.6, 4 clerks 21.6,
12 laborers 43.2, 144 women and supervisors 601.2; additional 20% of the above
for overbeads.
L/ Rs 400/ton frozen.
/ Rs 230/ton frozen, for packing materials, chemicals, etc.
2/ 2% of investment.
0/11% of investment
j/ Groundrent 8,000 m 2@ Rs 11 .    1/ On operting cosa  e2cluding raw material.
jl/ 1/3 of operating costs for 9 months    11% annual interest.



ANNEX 13
Table 6
Page 2
----------- years ---------------
1         2-8       9_10       11
(Rs'000)
II.    CASH FLOWd
Inlow
Funds generated                     -         7,194     7,194       7. 194
Project loan (80%)                 3,136
Borrower's contribut+n (20%)         784
Capitalized interests                1 72
Total Inflow                       4,022      7,194     7J          7.1
Outflow
Investment                         3,920       -         _          (392)2l
Debt service/                        17         702- _
Total Outflow                      4.,092       702    ,            (392)
Net Cash Flow            o                                  I9    Y" 386
III. FINANCIAL ENEIT/COST
Benefit                             -       38,668    38,668       38,668
Cost                               3,920    31,474    31,474       31.082
Net Benefit                      ( 3,920 )  7,194       7,194       7,586
IV.  FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FRR                                Over 55%
FRR on Equity                      Over 55%
Debt Service Coverage                 1o.25
_7 11% of 50% of the loan.
g/ Salvage value 10% of investment.
3/ The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in years 2-8 at
11% annual intest.
August 24, 1976



ANNE! 1,3
Table 
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Free   1 -Com.X 10 ton - ll
years --------------
1         2-8         10        11
I.    INCOlE; STATtI
Net sale8s7.                                 21,487    21,487      21,487
Operating Costs /
Raw maTerial-/                               15,907
Water                                            17
Ele9ricityW/                                     1 7
Ice(                                             64
Wages and gverheads'/                           476
Transport(                                      208
Materials29/                                    119
Maintenanr2,2/                                   45
Isuro e_....                                     23
RentZ        1/                                  48
Hiscellaneos3                                   102
Interest on worldng capitalV                 - 6
Total operating costs              -1 7,C94                W        17 ,49
Operating Income                              30993     3,993        3,993
7 3519- ton-@ Rs 41,400.              price assumptions as in Taaole 6 .
2/ Wherever the detailed assumptions are not specified they are te same an in
Table 6
/ 990 ton @ Rs 16,068.
h/ 11,138 m3 @ Rs 1.5.
i 283.7 thousand kwh @ Rs 60.
6' 990 ton @ Rs 65.
7/ Wages per annum (Rs'000): 1 manager 12.0, 2 engineers 14.4, 2 clerks 10.8,
7 laborers 25.2, 80 women and supervisors 334.0  ; addita3l 20% of the
aboe for overbeads.
8/ 519 tons @ Rs 400.
2/ 519 ton @ Rs 230.
  2% of investment
11/ 1% of investment
12/ Ground rent 4,400 m 2  @Rs 11
II/ 10% of operating costs excluding raw iteral.
14/ 1/3 of operating costs for 9 months at 11% annual interest.



ANNEX 13
Table 7
Page 2
-----------years ---------------
1         2-8        -1-0       11
II.    CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated                     -         3,993     3,993        3,993
Project loan (80%)                  1,816
Borrower's  contributon (20%)         454
Capitalized interest                  100
Total inflow                        2,370     3,993      3,993       3,993
Outflow
Investment  3/                      2,270       -         -          (227)y
Debt service -                        100     _  7                     -
Total outflow                       2,370       407       -          (227)
Net Cash Flow                         0       3,586     3,993        4,220
III.   FINANCIAL BENEFIT/COST
Benefit                               -      21,487    21,487       21,487
Cost                                2,270   1-7,4 94    17,494      1  267
Net Benefit                        (2,270)    3,993     3,j93
IV.    FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FRR                                 Over  55$%
FRM on Fquity                       Over  55%
Debt service t:overage                9.81
y  11% on 50% of the loan.
2/  Salvage value 10% of investment.
The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in years 2-8 at
11% annual interest.
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIS PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Fish Meal Plant - 75 tons
 ______-__-----Years-----------
1         2-8       9-10          11
T7Rs '00o
I. Income Statement
Net Sales 2/                            -         6,ooo    6,ooo       6,ooo
Operating Costs
Raw material >/                                   2,$6
Water and electricity.j                               34
Fuel hJ'                                             794
Wages and overheads 2                                145
Bags  /                                             165
Mainteenance e                                       354
Insurance                                             71
Rent  /                                               13
Misceellaneous l/                                    158
Interest on working capital   /                       75
Total operating costs                  -          4,154    4,154       4,154
Operating Income                       -             04D    -, 40     -1,b4
1/ 2,500 tons at Rs 2,400; based on 80% export at Rs 2,500/ton and 20% local
sales at Rs 2,000/ton.
/ 12,500 tons at Rs 180, plus 4.2% tax.
Water 0.4 m3/ton raw at Rs 1.50/m3; electricity 35 kwh/ton raw at Rs 0.06.
4 Light diesel oil 50 kg/ton raw at Rs 1.27/kg.
Wages per annum (Rs '000): Manager 18.0, engineer 7.2, clerk 5.4,
25 laborers 90.0; additional 20% of the above for overheads.
i 4 bags per ton raw at Rs 3.30/bag.
v 5% of investment
1% of investment.
/ 1,200 m2 at Rs ll/m2.
W/ 10% of operating costs excluding raw material.
I/ 2/9 operating costs for 9 months at 11% annual interest.



ANNEX 13
Table 5
Page 2
II.  CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds generated                    -      1,846       1,846        1,846
Project loan (80%)            5,664
Borrower's contributions
(20%)        1,416
Capitalized interest  /         312
Total Inflow                  7,392       1,846       1,846       1,846
Outflow
Investment                    7,080         -           -           (708)2/
Debt service j                   312      1,268         -
Total outflow                 7,392       1 268         -           (70)
Net Cash Flow                    0                    1,846       2,554
III.  FINANCIAL BENEFIT/COST
Benefit                            -      6,000       6,000       6,000
Cost                          7 080       4 154       4 154       3 446
Net Benefit                   (7,0)
IV. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FRR                              23%
FRR on equity                    45%
Debt service coverage          1.46
j  11% of 50% of the loan.
j  Salvage value 10% of investment.
3 The principal and capitalized interest are amortized in years 2-8
at 11% annual interest.
Axugust 24, 1976



IDWIA
GUJAW FISHZRIIS ROJICT
Financia Rates of Return Sensitivity Tests
(%)
liuted        lnvestment    ORlckti e Costi              Net Sales
.et                                            FR     R * 1 l 0%  ii15S%             _                1 0%    -1lg
14.8 m MFV                                          53          472   44       45    41                  38      31
Canoe with Outboard Motor                           30          26    24       21    16                  16      10
Outboard Motor                                     over 55     -over 55        over 55                    over
Ice Plant - 200 tonrs                               42          38    36       4Q    39                  36       2
Ice Plant -  75 tons                                31          28    27       30    29                  26      23
Freezing Complex - 10 tons                         over 55      over 55        over 55               Over 55    32
Freezing Complex - 18 tons                         over 55       over 55       over 55                Over 55    34
Fish Meal Plant                                     23          20  l9         16    12                  13       7
August 24, 1976



ANNEX 14
Page   1
INDIA
CITJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Production
1.         Production estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Incremental fish (and shrimp) would be produced by the following:
(i) 320 14.8 m MFV of which:
Financed by the project, Veraval                            200
Financed by other sources (private sector), Veraval   50
Financed by the project, Mangrol                             70
Total                                                 320
(ii) 350 9 m motorized canoes.
(iii) 475 outboard motors which would be installed in 475
existing non-motorized canoes.
(b) Unit catch estimates would be as shown in Annex 13.
(c) The catch from the fish testing surveys (Annex 6) would be
excluded from the production estimates.
Economic Rates of Return
2.         In calculating the economic rate of return of the
main project components the following assuptions have been used;
General Assumptions
(a) current prices for fish reflect the economic value of such fish.
(b) shadow pricing is not appropriate for labor component was costed
at going wage rates.
(c) As investments in test fishing surveys and related technical
assistance, the marketing survey and net manufacturing machines
play no part in generating project benefits. It is appropriate
to exclude both the costs and benefits of these project components
from the calculation.



ANNEX 14
Page   2
Assumptions related to both Veraval and Mangrol
(d) a 15% increase in catch per vessel was assumed, resulting from
the possibility to partially fish during the monsoon season
and the gain in fishing hours per trip resulting from shorter
loading and unloading time. This increase would, however, be
offset by an estimated 15% decrease in the average catch per
vessel resulting from the greater density of vessels, so that
the actual catch per vessel with and without the project would
remain unchanged. The effort required for obtaining the present
catch rates would therefore increase. Operational costs of new
vessels were based on increased effort and incremental operating
costs of the existing fleet were included in the calculations.
(e) the economic rate of return was estimated with and without shadow
pricing of foreign exchange. Accounting price used was US$1 =
Rs 10.50 as compared with the prevailing rate of about US$1 =
Rs 9.00.
Assumptions related to Veraval
(f) the incremental number of 14.8 m MFV includes, in addition
to the 200 MFV financed by the project, also 50 trawlers
financed by other sources. Benefits and costs were adjusted
accordingly.
(g)  benefits from future use of the port by 23 m MFV were not
included. Accordingly, the incremental cost of making the
port accessible to 23m MFV was subtracted from the invest-
ment in marine works.
Assumptions related to Mangrol
(h) incremental fishing fleet includes 70 14.8m MFV as well as 70
new canoes and 73 outboard motoro which would be installed in
existing non-motorized canoes. The canoes and the outboard
motors are included in cost estimates of the traditional fish-
ermen sub-project. The reason for this inclusion, for economic
rate of return calculation, in the Mangrol component, is that
they would operate from a protected beach which would be con-
structed in Mangrol as a part of the marine works. Construc-
tion cost of that beach cannot be separated from other costs.
Assumptions related to the traditional fishermen Component
(i) landing prices were assumed to be 5% lower than in Veraval
and Mangrol due to additional handling and transport costs
to the buyers.



ANNEX 14
Page   3
(j) the following adjustments to investment costs were made:
-    trucks were excluded as the calculation is based
on landing prices.
-    40% of the investment in sheds was included as
incremental fishing capacity as a result of the
project is estimated at 40% of the total capacity.
20% of the investment in roads and water supply was
included. This is based on the assumption that these
components do not serve fishing boats only and the
proportion charged to them should not exceed 50% of
which 40% should be charged to the sub-project.
3.        Estimated economic rates of return based on these assumptions
are summarized below:
Component                          Rate of Return
Veraval                                           16
Mangrol                                           18
Mechanized Fishing Vessels (MFV)                  48
Traditional Fishermen Component                   53
Canoe with Outboard Motor                         31
Outboard Motor (for existing canoe)             over 60
Ice Plants                                       45-59
Freezing Complexes                              over 60
Fishmeal Plant                                    33
Whole Project                                     24
The rate of return of all the project components is acceptable. The rela-
tively high rate of return of the traditional fishermen sub-project is a
result of high proportion of sunk costs (non-motorized canoes) incurred
before the project. The high rate of return of freezing plants reflects
the present high risk of rejection of the frozen product at export market
due to infestation by salminella. Detailed calculations are provided in
Tables 1 and 2. Sensitivity analysis was carried out for all project com-
ponents and the results are shown in Table 3.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Harbor Improvements and Vessels
Y-----------------------------a------------------------------_-      __----- -------- Years-------------------------     --------------- -------------
1         2           3           4          5         6         7         8         9         10         11         12         13         14         15
(Rs 'oooT
1. 1angrol
Benefits 1/                      822     2,464       5 634       9,477     13,271   15,547   15,547   15,547    15,547    15,547    15,547    15,547    15,547    15,547    15,547
Operating costs 2/               482     1,306       2,848       5,338       7,473    8,796    9,005    9,005       9,005      9,005      9,005      9,005      9,005      9,005      9,005
Investment costs 3/           2,221      9,038      15,381       6 350      3,556       372       595        76       138          -      1153       1,657     1,638       1,562   (22,184)
Net Benefits                  (1,881)   (7,880)   (12,595)    (2   )         2,242    6,379    5,947    6,466       6,404      6,542      5,389      4,885      4,904      4,980    28,726
Economic Rate of Return                   16%
2. Veraval
Benefits 4/                   3795    13,280        22,765      32,250               47, 425   47,.425   47,425    47,425    47.425    47,425    47,425    47,425    47425 
Operating costs 5/            1,705      6,130      10,555      14,980      22,948   27,022   28,374   28,374    28,374    28,374    28,374    28,374    28,374    28,374    28,374
Investment costs 6/          18,494    34,813       33,997      16,575      8.855      -         -         -           273      -         3,905      3,905      3,905      3,905   (61,815)
Net Benefits                 (16,404)  (27,663)   (21,787)         695       9,932   20,403   19,051   19,051    18,778    19,051    15,            1514615,146    80,866
Economic Rate of Return                   18%
3. Traditional Fishermen
Sub-Pro ect
Benefits 7/                   3,902      7,764       9,669       9, 9.    8     53    9,        9,853    9,853      9,853      9,853      9,853      9,853      9,853      9,853      9.853
Operating costs 8/             2,159     4,126       5,324       5,354       5,360    5,360    5,360    5,360        5,360     5,360      5,360      5,360      5,360      5,360      5,360
Investment costs 9/           5,000      3,111       2.493   2. 256                      46.      365       281     2,200      2 .20      1947         365 8Z 21 -                   (6,660)
Net Benefits                  (3,257)       527      1,852       2,243        ,23  2546         4,128    4,212       2,293      2,293     2,546      4,128      4,212      4,493    11,153
Economic Rate of Return                   53%
1/ Benefits from incremental catch of 70 new 14.8 trawlers, 70 new canoes with out-board motors and 73 out-board motors installed in existing non motorized canoes.
2/ Operating costs, adjusted for taxes and subsidies, of new trawlers, new canoes, Fisheries Terminal Organization (FTO), incremental operating costs of existing canoes,
existing mechanized vessels, and port.
3/ Investment costs adjusted for taxes and submidies of: marine works and shore services (excluding workshop, canteen, gear shed, water supply and electricity), new
trawlers, canoes and out-board motors, equipment for FTO, value of land and a part of technical assistance for marine works and shore facilities (the total cost of
technical assistance was divided between Mangrol and Veraval). Residual values wore subtracted in year 15.
4/ Benefits from incremental catch of 250 trawlers (200 financed by the project and 50 financed from other sources.)
5/ Operating costs adjusted for taxes and subsidies of 250 new trawlers and FTO, and incremental operating cost. of existing mechanized fleet and port.
6/ Investment costs, adjusted for taxes and subsidies of: marine works and shore services (excluding workshop, canteen, gear shed, water supply and electricity), 250
trawlers, equipment for FTO, value of land and a part of the technical assistance. Residual values were subtracted in years 4 (dredger) and 15.
7/ Benefits from 280 new canoes and 402 out-board motors installed in existing canoes.
8/ Operating costs adjusted for taxes and subsidies of new-canoes and out-board motors and maintenance cost of sheds, roads and water supply systans.
9t Investment costs in canoes and outboard motors, a part of the investment in sheds (40'/),roads (20x) and water supply systems (20%).                                                                 -3



ANNEX ]4
Table 2
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1/
B. Vessels-/
------------------------Years--------------------------
1    2-4    5      6    7-8    9    10    11   12-14   15
1. 14.8 in Trawler
Benefits        2/        75.9 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7 189.7
Operating Costs-_f        36.2  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5  90.5
Investment Costs-        242.3    -      -     -      -     -   -      78.-    -  (77.6)
Net Eecnomic Benefits  (202.6) 99.2  99.2  99.2  99.2  99.2  99.2  20.7  99.2 176.8
Econoipic Rate of Return 48%
2. Canoe w-ith Outboard Motor
Benefits        4         22.5  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  "5.0  25.0
Operating Costs-31        16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0
Investment Costs-/        30.0    -      -    3.8    -      -   (7.9)
Net Economic Benefits   (23.5)  9.0   9.0   5.2   9.0   9.0  16.9
Economic Rate of Return 31%
3. Outboard Motor (for existing canoe)
Benefits       3/          7.1   7.1   7.1
Operating Costs-3/         2.5   2.5   2.5
Investment Costs-          4.3    -   (0.3)
Net Economic Benefits      0.3   4.6   4.9
Economic Rate of Return over 60%
1/  Economic benefits equal Financial benefits (Annex 13); economic operating and in-
vestment costs equal the corresponding financial costs adjusted for duties and taxes.
2/  Includes a proportional share of incremental operating costs, part operating costs
and investment in harbour improvement.
3/  Includes a proportional share of investment in shore services and their operating
costs.



ANX14
Table 3
vnDiA
OUJARAT IPISMEIES PRO3
Economie Analysis
C. Shore Facilities2/
2-10        11
(Ru 'o000)
1. Ice Plnt 200 tons
Benefits (gross sales, Annex 13 table 4)            -     2.8        2.48
Operating costs                                     -       6400         0
Investment cost                                                       (310
Net Economic Benefits                          (sI 96) 1044          2$154
Economic Rate of Retu                59
2. Iee Plt 75 tonx
Benefits (gross sales, Annex 13 table 5)            -930               930
Operating Costs                                             274        27
Investmnt Cost                                   jo           -       (141
Net Econouic Benfits                           (1s413)      656        797
Economic Rate of Raturn              15%
3. Fresaing Plant 18 tons
Benefits                                             -    8.668     38.668
Operating Costs                                    -    30,297      30,297
Investment Costs                                3( 73 -              (3hb8)
Net Economic Benefits                          (%sJ)    8,37l        8,719
Economic Rate of Retur           Over 60%
4. FreeziNg Plant 10 tons
Benefits                                            -   21.487
Operating Costs                                     -    16s840     10SU4
Investment Costs                                2 002         -      ( 2009
Net Economic Benefits                          (2002)         1,617  4^7
Economic Rate of Return          Over 60%
5. Fish N"al lant
Benefits                                            -    6,000       6,000
Operating Costs                                     -     3,870      3s,870
Invstmnt Costs                                  6.02          -       (6
Not Economic Benefits                          (7042)   2,130        2sJ73
Econmic Rate of Return                33%
./ Unless othervise indicated:
a. Economic benefits equal financial benits (Annex 13)
b. Economic operating and investment costs eqal the corresponding
financial costs less estimated duties and taxes.



INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity Tests
-------------------- Sensitivity --------------------------------
Estimated   Accounting Price for   Investment        Oporating Costs       Benefits
Component                   ERR       Foreimg Exchange  1/   +10%   +150%i+i%1$               ~     -10%
Mangrol                             16               19                14     14       14        12         11       9
Veraval                             18               21                15     14       15        13         12       9
Traditional fishermen Sub-project 53                50                 44     40       41        36          32     23
14.8 X Trawler                     48               56                43      41       43       40          37      32
Canoe with Outboard Motor          35               36                 30     28       25       21          20      14
Outboard Motor                  Over 60          Over 60               Over 60         o0hr 60               Over 60
Ice plant  200 tons                59                55               f53      51'     57        56         51      47
Ice plant  75 tons                  45               42                41      39      43        42          38     35
Freezing complex 18 tons        Over 60          Over 60               Over 60          Ovei 60                Over 60
Freezing oomplex 10 tons        Over 60          Over 60               Over 60          Over 60                Over 60
Fish meal plant                     33               31                30      28      26        23          22     16
All project                         24               -
%/ The accounting price used was US$ 1.00 - Rs 10.50 as compared with the official exchange                          04
rate of about US$ 1.00 = Rs 9.00 (+16.7%)
July 14, 1976






INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT,
14.8 M. (48 FT.) TRAWLER/GILL NETTER
S~~~~ -U               -                          =
MAIN DIMENUIONS
OAL ........,. 4Vr-
BIAM  ....... 12 -O"
DEPTH ........-F 5   '
DISPLACEMENT ...... 21 TONS
ENGINE ........... M Hp
World IB.k-111235






INDIA
OWARAT 11S4ERIES PROJECT
S M112S FT) CANOE
t < V [ V 7 727 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-2
[T  wr  -          F   _N  _ _-                                  '             I            _?  '~~~~~MM MS
. -~~~~~~~~~~~W-
7_ ..7 ms
Do .      " m
DOW M....u m
U* * * -- * *|w .
W. t -m






eO                            l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- -  -      t             ------/-)
t X X    4  - Qi;C<; 0                W  -----/or tS~~~~
ftC--  . -   E  4-           ph           I                     7
_L _        J'0     'l'-
= = . C TQ~~~~~~~~~~~                                    \  \ 
; 4~~~~~ ;                       --         N                 rN Vr-W\L-f <
~~~~    ~ ~ ~~N(
GUJAm AT FIHE IERJC
MPNGO HAR-O






N-w-X
o      *-f  X    ,C'2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
D  .  _  ,,   ,    . e   r 9 2  X  t <  9~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)'
I                  __        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~A






I BRD 12317
AP CD R  ;   ;  L4  t                                                  OCTOBE 1B76
andlo                                                 v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ramg6m               3
M&nd~~~~~                                                                                                      AHMAD~~~~~~~RBAD   Ko~~avopadn
JoTla                                               S rendra       pt A                                                                    HR
hindr                                 Tankl or goepas.ec bv Xfe  \  X                      f                            DomX    f B U LrS A  RKra N ADoEp
CAMBAY                BA D .
h'oe!daB *l 4lsrleree                               IhlDIA \/S, .'/\
+,   ozAprolm. sofleL  - GUJARAT   FISHERIES    NRfE TX<!                                                                                                    4SIL/S             
PlAKISTAN  HINA32_||  2 . 9>     
/ Al~ ~ ~ ~ ~
s   ^-= st-f  h.  ,                     ~~~~~~Veraval  foetSites'                                                                                                       <                  
245\   INDIA           ey         2bTdFishingGrounds                                                                                                       Dhn\                             _, .
A,.nelMee                  B  URMA                     -      MaJin Roods                                                \,                                     
$      S  ,*_ ANGLABEsw      )                          Other Roods                                                 \         ,/.J{                                                             S , 
b_ or   ] ,/   }0_/9.-,-I-I-I Railvways                                                         0      40  <  03   1  ''0    ~'                     T    I-I   A    N    A  h       7
0  20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2
1  L   0  Sene/<:/7 c  --   District Boundopies          KIOr3MKdTtRS        /                                      R /             T
<5\SRI ;A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Af,  ~~~~~~~~                                                                     Shwgo~~~~~~X'  UR~~   
^ iX 2 f-        State and Northern Territory Boundaries                          .'
YB.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
X .cz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~be                                                                                                 J  RLAdK 5  )/a  n ev tC   
8  5e<>  -  l % ~~~~-frferraRaol21 Er7   <>    \    70'  71-                             7|2                              *f      73  1(S2     7                1 {~~~~~~84(m






IBRD 12318
r   7r-                                        /      f                        70730'                                                                            71                            NOVEMBER 1976
/NI NDIA
LOCATION OF GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
Keshod                                                                                                                Q   Project sites
*Ports
o   Towns
Roads
>  \    \\Railways
Rivers
AAnrol
MANGROL
MANGROL. fBAA                                                                                                                9-fX    
\h   k                               DAAM
CHRW                                                                                                                                                                              21'
-2l.
HlRAfKO                                      f                                                                                X
SUTRAPAD2\4 (   
T  bom,eke,e A,"on ib 'is map d, -t                                                                                                                                               na
fmpfy dmlmeet ne asevptowe b.y the                                                                                              odir
Wmold,. mt k fdits.fWte,m.
70-                                                                                   DHANL
PAKISTAN  V,                  C H I N A                                                                     MUL DWAR
BANG6ADESI-?H D
ui Ofh   I N D IA
Proc  r                                BURMAeo
\   r                            o~~ ~~~~~~~~ 5  to     Is    20       25      30     35      40                         Ar a7 b  i      n              5e a
Arabion                 Bay  of Bengal                               0        I    203E0ERS
KILOMETERS
\0/  D   O  5           10          15          20          25
Sea                                                                            MILES
SRI LANKA                                                            701 30'                                                                            71-



