1111   {>   ?! Sfi\V7                 Document of
The World Bank
FOIR OIF1FCXAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1974-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
March 21, 1977
I This dcumene hns n reskiced drsirlboAonm und mny be used by recipiemts ouny n thie perfonmnce Of
their o#Mcgd duties. Its conentems may nea oftberwise be disclsed wihiout World BanJk flutobrintfon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 20, 1976)
US$1.00        =       Rs 9000
Rs 1.00        =       US$0.11
Rs 1 million           US$111,111
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the Appraisal
Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC   =    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CCC    =    Central Coordinating Committee
FPCS        Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies
FTD    =    Fisheries Terminal Division
GFCCA  =    Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Ltd.
GOG    =    Government of Gujarat
GOI         Government of India
GPD    =    Gujarat Ports Directorate
GSCB   =    Gujarat State Cooperative Bank
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
PSC    =    Project Supervision Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and a proposed development credit to the Government of India (GOI) in
amounts equivalent to US$14 million and US$4 million, respectively, to help
finance a project for increasing marine fishery yields and consequently the
incomes of traditional and commercial fishermen in Gujarat. The loan would
be on standard Third Window Terms, with the first repayment falling due on
January 15, 1983, and the final maturity on January 15, 2001. The develop-
ment credit would be on standard IDA terms. US$11.9 million from the loan
and credit would be channelled by GOI to the Government of Gujarat (GOG) in
accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing state
development projects. US$4.7 million from the loan and credit would be made
available by GOI to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) repayable to GOI over nine years at 6.75% per annum. ARDC would make
these funds available to the Gujarat State Cooperative Bank (GSCB) and com-
mercial banks for financing investments in mechanized fishing vessels and
shore installations, and to Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies (FPCS)
for financing the purchase of canoes, outboard motors and fishing gear.
Relending terms and arrangements are given in Annex III. US$1.4 million
from the loan and credit would be used by GOI to cover the cost of technical
assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kerala Agricultural Development
(Report No. P-1953-IN), dated February 3, 1977.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. IU contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        Since Independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and
possibly even decline. Although national income has increased in most years,
there has been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast
masses of the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government
has initiated a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the
lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200
million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is the basis for an upturn in the growth rate of the
economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors have been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in 1975/76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the
previous record of 1970/71 by 8%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached
new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In
1976/77 a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of
foodgrains. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76 and by
a further 15% in the first eight months of 1976/77. Finally, the increased
supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with
the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual



stop to inflation. From April 1975 to March 1976 the Wholesale Price Index
fell by 8.1%. Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11.0%,
it was still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.
8.        On the balance of payments front there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in 1975/76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in 1976/77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports
was stabilized in 1975/76 (although there is likely to be a rise in 1976/77),
and steel imports have been progressively reduced in 1975/76 and 1976/77 as
a result of increased domestic production. Finally, increased production
and lowered world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply.
As a result of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in 1975/76 and
the trade deficit fell by almost $100 million. Development so far in 1976/77
suggest a more dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. More-
over, since net aid rose 49% in 1975/76 and India received substantial in-
flows of private remittances during the past one and a half years, reserves
rose by almost $800 million in 1975/76, and are continuing to rise at a com-
parable rate in 1976/77. These reserves give India added flexibility in
adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the future.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the     -e
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payment-s
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposed a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduced new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks



or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the ba:Lance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was characterized by shortages even
before the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil
prices, coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power
shortages - caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor
monsoons - led to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of
existing facilities and to a much higher priority for investments in the
energy sector. The effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are
now starting to be felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each
of the last two years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and
restrictions have been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and
natural gas have improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High
field. Crude production from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in
1976/77 and to reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this
basis, petroleum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as
increased crude production and expanded refinery output more than offset
increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of over 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.



14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports in 1975/76. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials) and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$799 million has been
repaid, and US$1,606 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of January 31, 1977,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.0 million, US$25.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1977 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.



- 6 -
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth, remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components continues to be an important
element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. India is
also eligible for Bank lending on Third Window terms on the basis of the fol-
lowing criteria:
-    per capita income as GNP in 1974 was US$140 per capita;
-    the Government's development effort has been commendable
and a significant part of this effort has been directed
towards the agricultural sector thereby assisting to alle-
viate rural poverty;



- 7 -
-    India is creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank
lending;
-    India has a continuing need for external financial
assistance. However, it has no special access to
new sources of concessionary finance and cannot
prudently afford to borrow substantial sums on com-
mercial terms.
As of January 31, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$976 million, of
which US$502 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$474 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - MARINE FISHERIES IN INDIA AND GUJARAT
Marine Fisheries in India
22.       India is one of the most protein-deficient areas in the world.
Consequently, GOI is placing increasing emphasis on the development of fish-
eries which can provide the cheapest source of animal protein. Apart from
supplementing local diets, fishery development is also important for exports.
India is presently the world's largest exporter of shrimps, which account for
the bulk of India's marine exports and which in 1975 contributed US$140 mil-
lion or about 3.5% of India's total export earnings.
23.       India's marine fishery industry is heavily concentrated on the west
coast with Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka accounting for over 70%
of total output. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal on the east
coast account for most of the balance. The Indian Ocean is one of the least
exploited fishery resources in the world. FAO and Indian fishery experts con-
servatively estimate the potential of the Indian Ocean at 14 million tons per
annum as compared with Pacific and Atlantic Ocean fish yields of about 33 and
23 million tons per annum, respectively. Yet in 1975, India's marine fish
catch was only about 1.6 million tons. Under the revised Fifth Five-Year
Plan (1974-1979), GOI's target for 1979 is a catch of 2 million tons. The
long-term perspective target of the Indian National Commission on Agriculture
(1976) is an annual catch of 3.5 million tons by the year 2000.



- 8 -
24.       India's marine fishery industry is composed of two distinct sectors
- the traditional and the commercial. The former provides employment for
about 1.3 million of India's poorest income earners and accounts for about
60% of the total catch. These fishermen use traditional marine fishing craft
including dugout canoes, plank boats and catamarans which operate primarily
from unprotected beaches where their catch is sold to fish traders who also
act as money lenders. This marketing arrangement is not efficient and results
in the fishermen receiving low prices, and thus low earnings, which may be
further adversely affected by bad weather conditions. These conditions
usually result in the fishermen being heavily indebted. Fishing villages
are often isolated and inadequately provided with potable water, access roads,
primary schools, medical facilities and communications. Hitherto, moderniza-
tion in this sector has been restricted to the use of nylon nets, synthetic
fibre fishing gear and some out-board motors. Because of social considera-
tions and because the sector remains the larger part of the industry,
GOI plans to accelerate its modernization through infrastructure improvements
as well as the provision of credit to fishermen to promote fleet expansion.
25.       In the commercial fishing sector, which presently accounts for 40%
of the total catch, the most conspicuous recent development has been the ex-
pansion of the fleet of small mechanized vessels, which has increased from
about 3,000 to 11,000 over the past decade. These vessels are 10-15 meters
in length, are generally constructed of wood, and carry crews of 4 to 8 on
daily fishing trips; they are equipped with inboard engines of up to 90 h.p.
and operate as trawlers when shrimp is plentiful, and as gillnetters when
good quality fish are abundant. Present facilities are generally inadequate
and, therefore, GOI plans to expand fishing harbors and shore facilities for
these vessels as well as to provide credit to promote expansion and modern-
ization of the fishing fleet.
Marine Fisheries in Gujarat
2
26.       Gujarat commands about 2100,000 km  , or about 25% of the Indian
continential shelf of 415,000 km   , but harvests only about 190,000 tons of
marine products, or approximately 11% of the national catch. The Department
of Fisheries which is responsible for fishery development in the State, has
been active in stimulating mechanization, providing infrastructure and credit,
conducting research, exploratory fishing and training. Under the guidance of
the Department of Fisheries, the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Asso-
ciation Ltd. (GFCCA) is engaged in activities which include catching, market-
ing, transporting, processing, storing, freezing and exporting of fish; manu-
facturing fishing gear; building vessels, and promoting inland fisheries.
The Gujarat Ports Directorate (GPD) also assists the fishing industry through
the construction of harbor works, shore facilities and the supervision and
maintenance of port services.
27.       Between 1965 and 1975, the number of mechanized fishing vessels
operating off the coast of Gujarat increased from about 400 to 1,300 and is
continuing to increase. The vessels used in Gujarat are primarily 14.8 meter



- 9 -
trawler-cum-gillnetters. The average annual catch of these vessels is approx-
imately 120 tons of such principal commercial varieties as Bombay duck, dhoma,
clupeids and shark. Fish are landed at four partially protected fishing
harbors - Veraval, Mangrol, Porbandar and Okha, as well as 15 other landing
points. Traditional fishing is carried on in about 200 villages which have
an estimated population of about 200,000. The villages are comparatively
isolated and lack basic facilities. The constraints to national fishery
development described earlier are reflected in the fishery sector of Gujarat.
Mangrol and Veraval - Marine Works
28.       All the fishery harbors in Gujarat need to be upgraded.    However,
the Government of Gujarat (GOG) has given priority to Mangrol and Veraval where
the immediate needs are most pressing and where there is also considerable
potential. In Mangrol the harbor is too small to accommodate the present
fleet and provides insufficient depth for vessels larger than 13 meters. In
addition, as there are no landing quays, fish are landed on the breakwater
which becomes highly congested and there are no facilities for handling fish
hygienically. Moreover, the harbor is not properly protected from heavy seas.
29.       Veraval is both a fishing harbor and a commercial port.    At low
tide the existing trawler quay cannot be used by mechanized fishing vessels
so that they have to use the commercial port facilities thus causing conges-
tion. In any case, landing space is insufficient to cope with the catch of
the present fleet of 400 vessels and as shore facilities are inadequate, mar-
keting is disorganized and unhygienic. The port entrance is not only shallow
but provides insufficient protection to the craft in the harbor from monsoon
winds.
Mangrol and Veraval - Shore Facilities
30.       Shore facilities in both ports are provided by GFCCA and the present
inadequacies are especially acute in storage and refrigeration.    In Mangrol
the availability of block ice is about half of current demand while storage
facilities are almost non-existent. As a result fish have to be transported
in ice to Veraval (50 km away) or even further to Bombay for processing. A
private commercial undertaking is developing a complex comprising ice and
freezing plants as well as frozen storage. But the capacities of these units
will not be adequate to handle the catch of the expanded fleet proposed under
this project. The situation in Veraval is not much better as supplementary
supplies of ice have to be brought from Rajkot (150 km away) in peak months.
GFCCA is installing a new ice plant with storage, financed through the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which is expected to
go on stream by July 1977. However, capacity will only be adequate for 50%
of requirements. Unlike Mangrol, Veraval will have adequate storage when a
fish storage project being developed by a private commercial venture and
financed by GFCCA and ARDC is completed towards the end of 1977.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by GOG with the assistance of FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program Missions which visited India during November/December 1974
and at various times in the period July to December 1975. ARDC participated
in the preparation of the traditional fisherman component of the project. It
was appraised by IDA in May 1976. The Appraisal Report No. 1326 (b), dated
March 16, 1977, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1977. The Borrower was
represented by Messrs. D. K. Chatterjee, S. P. Balasubramanyam and H. K. Khan.
A loan, credit and project summary is attached as Annex III and a supplementary
data sheet is attached as Annex IV.
Project Description
32.       Hitherto, the efforts of GOI and the GOG to promote fishery develop-
ment have been concentrated on extending the use of mechanized fishing vessels
and modernizing traditional fishing craft and gear. This drive has, in general,
been successful. In the case of Gujarat, the resulting growth in fish catching
capacity has placed great strain on existing fishing harbors and on marketing
channels and facilities. The proposed project has been designed to alleviate
these problems in Gujarat by modernizing and expanding the harbors and shore
facilities at Mangrol and Veraval. It would complement these efforts by fi-
nancing further expansion in mechanized fishing vessels, by modernizing
traditional fishing craft and by improving the physical infrastructure in
selected fishing villages. The principal components of the project are:
-    improvement of the fishing harbors at Mangrol and Veraval
to permit more mechanized fishing vessels to use these
facilities and to provide better protection against adverse
weather;
-    improvement of shore facilities and services at Mangrol
and Veraval to provide suitable support for the existing
fleet and expansions which are expected to occur as a
consequence of the project;
-    provision of credit to cooperatives and entrepreneurs to
establish fish processing, freezing, and ice plants at
the two harbors;
-    construction and equipping of 270 mechanized fishing vessels
and their sale on credit to fishermen and cooperatives;
-    assistance to traditional fishermen by the provision of,
(i) credit for 350 fishing canoes equipped with outboard
motors and gear, and 1,400 outboard motors; (ii) infra-
structure in eight fishing villages and (iii) improvements
in the fish marketing system of these villages;
-    provision of two fish net manufacturing machines for GFCCA; and



-    technical assistance for two test fishing operations, a
marketing study, and project implementation.
Project Implementation
33.       The project, with the exception of the test fishing operations and
marketing study which would be the responsibility of GOI, would be carried
out by GOG with refinance for credit operations being provided by ARDC. Im-
plementation would require considerable coordination. At State level, coor-
dination would be effected through a Project Supervision Committee (PSC),
chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forests and Fisheries.
The establishment of this committee would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (see Section 5.01(d) of the Credit Agreement). The Commissioner of
Fisheries would act as its Secretary and full-time coordinator and be respon-
sible for organization and coordination of project implementation by appro-
priate Gujarat State agencies, including GFCCA, GPD and the Fisheries Terminal
Division (FTD) which would be set up as a separate Division under the project
in the Office of the Commissioner of Fisheries of Gujarat (see Section 2.12(a)
of the Project Agreement). At the GOI level, a Central Coordinating Committee,
chaired by the Joint Secretary of Fisheries, would be established as a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness. This Committee would be responsible for overall
policy guidance (see Sections 5.01(e) and 3.02 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
34.       Under the project GFCCA would own and operate most of the shore
facilities, build the 14.8 meter trawlers, expand its fish net manufacturing
capacity, supply canoes for the traditional fishermen component, 'assist in
establishing fishermen's primary cooperative societies and operate an insur-
ance scheme for fishing vessels. GFCCA, which is run by a 19-member Board
chaired by the Commissioner of Fisheries, has a membership of 60 fisheries
cooperatives. Since its establishment in 1956, GFCCA has been engaged in
numerous activities connected with the fishing industry, including boat
building, fish purchase and sales, marine engine and pump sales, and the
operation of fishmeal, quick freezing, canning and ice plants. Although
GFCCA has been able to show a small profit from 1971/72 onwards, it suffers
from management and staffing problems, lack of budgetary and inventory con-
trol, and inadequate forward planning. Strengthening its organization and
improving its financial management is essential to enable GFCCA to carry out
its responsibilities under the project. A satisfactory organizational and
staffing program has been prepared by GOG in consultation with ARDC on the
basis of proposals made by a firm of Indian management consultants and is
currently being implemented (see Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement).
The proposed project would be carried out over five years and further details
of the principal components and their implementation are set out below.
35.       Fishing Harbors.   At Mangrol, an additional 250 meters of breakwater
would be constructed and dredging would be carried out to form a tidal basin
for landing fish. On completion, the harbor would be able to handle about 110
mechanized fishing vessels while during emergencies, a fleet of 165 mechanized
fishing vessels could be accommodated in the sheltered berths. Additionally,
a protected beach would be formed for use by traditional craft and 2 hectares



- 12 -
of land cleared and leveled as a fisheries terminal where supporting services
and facilities would be located. At Veraval the existing breakwater would
be extended in addition to the construction of a lee breakwater, landing and
berthing quays, and open berthing jetties. The entire harbor would be dredged
as would the entrance channel. On completion, the harbor would accommodate
700 mechanized fishing vessels, and would remain open to vessels throughout
the year. The entrance channel dredging would permit use of the harbor in the
future by larger vessels up to 23 m. Improvements would also include construc-
tion of a slipway (to accommodate the equivalent of sixty 15 meter vessels),
and development of 7.5 hectares as a fisheries terminal where shore facilities
and services would be provided.
36.       GPD would be responsible for effecting the foregoing harbor
improvements and would use as consultants the Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing
Harbors, a unit established in the GOI Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
with UNDP assistance, which has designed the proposed harbor improvements at
Veraval and Mangrol. In addition to the construction of harbor improvements,
GPD would continue to manage the harbor services at Mangrol and Veraval. GPD
is a State organization with adequate port construction and operation exper-
tise to enable it to handle this work.
37.        Shore Facilities and Services.  Under the project, GOG and its
departments would be responsible for supervising construction of a number of
facilities at the two terminals.   At Mangrol, GOG would provide and operate
on its own behalf, roads and drainage facilities, offices, an improved water
supply system and, a 66 Kv electricity supply line. At Veraval the facilities
to be provided and operated by GOG would include offices, roads and drainage,
security fencing of the development area, a water system and a 40 MW power
supply. Sites for fuel and oil stations would also be provided at both
harbors.
38.       The Fisheries Terminal Division (FTD) to be established within the
Office of the Commissioner of Fisheries would manage the service facilities
at Mangrol and Veraval, other than the utility services. FTD would take
over all GPD buildings at these sites as well as the new buildings to be
constructed under the project, which would provide offices for FTD, auction
halls, canteens, gear sheds and workshops. FTD would run the auction halls
itself, but would lease the other buildings to entrepreneurs wishing to
provide services to fishermen. FTD would operate as a financially autonomous
unit and would be required to earn sufficient revenue to cover all operating
expenditure, interest and depreciation (see Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement). FTD would be required to prepare its accounts according to com-
mercial practice and have them audited by independent auditors. In order
to fulfill the critical role assigned to it under the project, FTD would be
provided with the services of a consultant for a period of two years to help
in setting up its own organization and in establishing an efficient fish auc-
tion system at the terminals (see Section 2.02(a) of the Project Agreement).
39.       Fish Processing, Freezing, and Ice Plants.    Credit would be provided
for construction of plants at the Mangrol and Veraval fisheries terminals to
be owned and operated by GFCCA, in the majority of cases, and private entrepre-
neurs. Sites for these plants would be leased to entrepreneurs by FTD. For



- 13 -
Mangrol, provision has been made for a 75 ton/day block ice plant with 200
tons storage; a 10 ton/day freezing plant for shrimp and other fish; and 100
ton storage for iced fish. At Veraval the program planned would comprise two
200 ton/day block ice plants each with 400 ton storage; an 18 ton/day freezing
plant with 500 tons storage for frozen fish, 150 tons storage for iced fish;
and a fish meal plant with a processing capacity of 75 tons a day. The con-
struction of the freezing complexes for Mangrol and Veraval will be in accord-
ance with designs to be reviewed by ARDC (see Section 2.07(a) of the Project
Agreement). Credit would be provided by the Gujarat State Cooperative
Bank and commercial banks, refinanced by ARDC.
40.       Construction of Mechanized Fishing Vessels.    Under the project,
finance would be provided for 270 14.8 meter mechanized fishing vessels (70
to operate from Mangrol and 200 from Veraval) suitable for trawling and
gill-netting. These would be fully equipped with 90 hp air or water cooled
inboard engines (according to owner preference) and fishing gear; they would
be operated by a crew of six and would have a carrying capacity of 4 tons of
fish. They would be constructed by GFCCA at Veraval in Gujarat. The demand
for these vessels is substantial as evidenced by the waiting lists.
41.       Traditional Fishermen Component.   Fishermen assisted under this com-
ponent would be located in fishing villages identified in the ARDC Banking
Plan situated between Mangrol and Veraval; approximately 38 villages are ex-
pected to be involved, for 8 of which infrastructure will be provided. They
would be provided with finance for 350 new 9 m canoes equipped with 8 hp
outboard motors and fishing gear, of which 344 would be dugout canoes made
from a single log of wood designed for a crew of three, and six would be
fiberglass canoes which would be used to test the suitability of this type
of craft for Gujarat conditions. 1,400 outboard motors would be supplied on
credit to fishermen: 475 for existing non-motorized canoes, 575 as replace-
ments, and 350 for the new canoes to be constructed under the project. The
demand for modernization and expansion is evidenced by the response to earlier
schemes for modernizing canoes.    To improve the marketing arrangements in
eight of the villages, the project would provide four trucks for use by GFCCA
for the delivery of ice and spare parts and to collect fish from the eight
villages. A shed would be provided by GOG at each village to be used as a
market and for the temporary storage of fish, and about 33.5 km of asphalted
roads would be constructed by GOG to provide better access to the village fish
markets. Village water supply systems would be constructed by GOG in five of
these villages which are now without them.
42.       Net Manufacturing Machines.   Two net manufacturing machines would
be provided for GFCCA, which is one of India's leading net manufacturers.
GFCCA's net manufacturing factory, which is now operating six days per week
and three shifts per day, needs these machines to meet the increasing demand
for nets.
43.       Credit Arrangements.   The Gujarat State Cooperative Bank (GSCB)
heads the short- and medium-term cooperative credit structure in the State.
Along with other commercial banks it would provide credit to project bene-
ficiaries. GSCB membership consists of Central Cooperative Banks at the



- 14 -
district level and Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies (FPCS) at the
village level. It is a financially sound institution with a good debt
recovery record and is fully qualified to undertake its project role.
44.       ARDC would be responsible for refinancing loans made by GSCB and
commercial banks for mechanized fishing vessels and shore installations, and
to Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies for canoes, outboard motors and
fishing gear. It would also assist participating banks and prospective bor-
rowers to prepare and evaluate investment plans and advise GOG on the estab-
lishment and management of FPCS which would play a significant role in the
traditional fisheries component. As a condition of disbursement ARDC would
prepare a Banking Plan specifying the terms, conditions and procedures for
lending by commercial banks and the GSCB and would identify the villages to
be covered and the criteria to be applied (see Section 2.08 of the ARDC
Agreement).
45.       FPCS would be provided with loans for canoes and outboard motors by
participating commercial banks. FPCS would in turn enter into hire-purchase
arrangements with final beneficiaries. Ownership of items financed through
FPCS would be transferred to beneficiaries on final loan repayment. These
societies would be run by and for the traditional fishermen.
46.       Technical Assistance.   Technical assistance amounting to US$2.9
million, excluding contingencies would be provided to GOI and GOG under the
project. The technical assistance provided with these funds includes 50 man-
months of consultancy services at an average monthly cost of US$8,000 including
subsistence and travel. This assistance would cover the cost of specialized
engineering assistance required by GPD to complete its part of the project and
would comprise a rock excavation specialist and a harbor engineer. Technical
assistance would also include a management specialist to assist GOG in estab-
lishing management systems for its fisheries terminals and organizing fish
auctions at Mangrol and Veraval terminals. In addition, two test fishing
operations would be financed, one off the coast of Gujarat and the other off
Andhra Pradesh, for resource data collection. The tests would be carried out
by GOI to determine improved methods of harvesting for which the services of a
fisheries resource management specialist would be required (see Section 3.03(a)
of the Credit Agreement). The project also provides for a study covering
fresh and dried fish marketing throughout India to be undertaken by the Indian
Institute of Management, Ahmadabad, or similar institution. The study is
intended to identify bottlenecks in marketing and develop solutions for over-
coming them, as well as determine the future demand for fish for domestic
consumption and for export. Particular attention would be paid to fish
marketing in Bombay. Terms of reference for the study would be prepared
by the Ministry of Agriculture, GOI, in consultation with the Bank and IDA
(see Section 3.02(c) of the Credit Agreement).
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
47.       A monitoring, evaluation and reporting system has been established
in the Gujarat Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forests and Fisheries



- 15 -
to provide information on project implementation and achievements, and to pro-
vide information for planning of future projects. The system comprises sur-
veys, covering vessel production, fisherman household incomes and effective-
ness of credit arrangements. The terms of reference for these surveys would
be prepared by GOG and furnished to the Bank and the Association for approval
by September 1977 (see Section 2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement). The
Statistical Unit of the GOG Department of fisheries would also be strengthened
to assist with the survey (see Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$38 million equiva-
lent, including US$11.5 million in foreign exchange costs and about US$2.4 mil-
lion of taxes and duties. The principal components, net of contingencies,
are: harbor improvements in the Ports of Mangrol and Veraval (US$11.2 mil-
lion); shore facilities at Mangrol and Veraval, including supporting services
(US$2.7 million); mechanized fishing vessels (US$5.8 million); traditional
fishermen component including, canoes, outboard motors and infrastructure
(US$2.7 million); and technical assistance (US$2.9 million). The provision
for contingencies of US$12.7 million covers a price contingency element of
about 27% and physical contingencies of about 6%. The proposed loan and
credit of US$18 million would finance about 50% of project costs net of taxes
and duties, including the whole of the foreign exchange costs and an estimated
US$6.5 million of local costs. The remaining local costs would be financed by
GOI, GOG, ARDC, participating banks, and borrowers. Details of cost estimates
and financing are given in Annex III.
49.       The proceeds of the loan and credit, with the exception of US$1.4
million for technical assistance provided to GOI, would be channelled to GOG
(US$11.9 million) and ARDC (US$4.7 million). The funds made available to GOG
would be for marine and civil works and would be provided to GOG in accordance
with GOI's established policies for development assistance to State Govern-
ments. Loan and credit proceeds made available to ARDC would be repayable over
nine years at an annual interest rate of 6.75% with GOI bearing the foreign
exchange risk. ARDC would on-lend the funds to participating commercial banks
at an annual interest rate of not less than 8% with repayment set to coincide
with collection dates from ultimate borrowers. The commercial banks, in turn
would lend to ultimate borrowers (GFCCA, cooperatives, and individual fisher-
men) at not less than 11% interest per annum minimum with repayment over
periods up to nine years. Annex III gives details of on-lending arrangements
(see Schedule III of the Credit Agreement). Lending rates under the project
would be consistent with other loans and credits to India by the Bank Group
and in line with prevailing interest rates.
Subsidies
50.       GOG currently grants a number of subsidies to fishermen.    These
range from 22.5% of the total cost of mechanized fishing vessels, to varying
amounts of the cost of items used in the traditional fishing sector such
a canoe hulls (7.5%), sails and equipment (15%), nets (10%), outboard
motors (Rs 400 or about 13%), and fully equipped 9 meter canoes (Rs 2,700



- 16 -
or about 8%). GOG has agreed to eliminate the subsidies on mechanized fish-
ing vessels as a condition of disbursement against this component (para 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement). Subsidies on motorized canoes and
fishing gear would however be retained as the beneficiaries of these are among
the poorest sections of Indian society. This is consistent with the capital
grant assistance provided to small farmers by the GOI through the Small
Farmers Development Agency. As traditional fishermen are a disadvantaged
group and the subsidies assist substantially in introducing new technology,
in particular the use of outboard motors, the subsidy policy is justified.
Eligibility criteria which, inter alia, limit the subsidy to one canoe per
beneficiary, are satisfactory and the subsidy funds are channeled through
the banking system.
Boat Risk Fund
51.       GOG, in consultation with ARDC, has agreed to prepare by September
1977 a proposal for the funding of a Boat Risk Fund to provide cheaper and more
effective insurance cover to the owners of MFVs as well as of traditional craft
(see Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Civil works for harbor improvements at Veraval comprising the con-
struction of breakwaters, quays, cofferdam and excavation (US$4.75 million)
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. Equipment (US$3.4 million) to be procured under
international competitive bidding would include net making machinery, refri-
geration equipment for ice plants, cold stores and freezing units, as well as
a rock dredger and ancillary equipment. Also subject to international com-
petitive bidding would be 1,400 outboard engines and spares (US$0.6 million)
required for the traditional fishermen component. In the case of equipment,
exceptions to the ICB would be small contracts or orders of less than
US$100,000 which cannot be bulked. Of the total cost of items expected to be
let on the basis of international competitive bidding (US$8.75 million), about
US$4.75 million is likely to be won by domestic bidders. For the civil works,
domestic contractors would receive a preference of 7-1/2%. For equipment,
domestic suppliers would be accorded the usual preferential margin equal
to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is
lower.
53.       Local competitive bidding would be applied for civil works for
shore facilities (US$1.1 million), for infrastructure in villages as part of
the traditional fishermen's component (US$0.8 million) and for harbor improve-
ment works at Mangrol (US$1.6 million). In the case of the first and second
of these, the works are to be spread over 5 years and are geographically scat-
tered while the harbor works at Mangrol are too small to be of interest to
foreign bidders. The procurement procedures for the civil works would be
those applied by GOG which are satisfactory.
54.       The mechanized fishing vessels and their engines (US$7.2 million),
canoes (US$0.8 million) and fishing gear (US$0.9 million) would be purchased



- 17 -
by fishermen according to their preferences and would be financed under credit
terms and accordingly local procurement would be appropriate. The mechanized
fishing vessels are to be constructed to traditional design by GFCCA or other
local private mechanized fishing vessel builders. Inboard engines for mecha-
nized fishing vessels would be procured from two local suppliers whose products
are well established and who can ensure efficient spare parts and after sales
service. Canoes would be constructed to traditional designs.
55.       The proceeds of the loan and credit would be disbursed against 100%
of cif expenditures on dredging equipment procured under international compe-
titive bidding; 100% of the expenditures on consultant services; 90% of the
expenditures on the marketing study and test fishing operations; 50% of expen-
ditures on civil works for harbor improvements at Mangrol and Veraval and
infrastructure in the traditional fisherman component; and 55% of ARDC dis-
bursements.
Economic Benefits and Risks
56.       The project's economic benefits would include:    (i) an increase in
the fish catch of nearly 45,000 tons annually; and (ii) the enhancement of
the economic value of much of the existing and incremental catch through im-
proved handling and marketing facilities. Other economic benefits would be
generated by the improvement of the physical infrastructure in project fishing
villages and from data collected and analyzed in the course of surveys and
studies financed by the project. In addition important production and export
constraints would be eased and useful experience would be provided particularly
with respect to the operation of FTD, the extension of institutional credit to
fishermen, and the organization of fishermen's primary cooperative societies
in villages.
57.       Financial rates of return calculated for the project beneficiaries
indicate that for investments in shore facilities rates of return would be
about 36% for the ice plants, over 55% for the freezing plants, and about 23%
for the fish meal plant. The returns are expected to be adequate to ensure
investor interest in leases in the port terminal areas. For mechanized fish-
ing vessels and canoes the financial rates of return have been estimated at
about 53% and 30% respectively, on the basis of an annual operating income
after payment of wages of approximately US$9,000 for vessels and US$950 for
canoes at 1976 prices.
58.       Economic rates of return for the principal components are as follows
with the percentage of total project costs attributable to these components
shown in parenthesis in each case: A composite rate of return calculated for
the whole of the traditional fishermen component of 53% (11%); on the harbor
improvement works at Mangrol and Veraval, about 16% (8%) and 18% (37%) re-
spectively; for ice plants about 45 to 59% (4%); for the fishmeal plant about
33% (3%) and for freezing plants over 60% (4%); for the mechanized fishing
vessels about 48% (23%). The overall economic rate of return calculated for
the project is 24%.



- 18 -
59.       Further economic benefits will accrue from the additional employment
for about 3,500 fishermen on trawlers, canoes and supporting industry serv-
ices which would be provided under the project. Further employment and income
benefits would also accrue to about 3,000 fishermen who would now be able to
operate trawlers off the coast of Mangrol and Veraval for longer periods during
the monsoon season and to about 1,400 traditional fishermen who would be pro-
vided with outboard motors. Improvements under the traditional fishermen
component would also benefit 10,000 people residing in eight villages through
the provision of fish collection and storage sheds, water supply and access
roads. The health and environmental effects of more hygienic standards for
handling of fish, reduced wastage and conversion of low grade fish into fish-
meal would be appreciable. Employment during project construction would pro-
vide about 3 million man-days of work to the Gujarat fishing community.
60.       The risk to the project of overfishing in the Mangrol and Veraval
areas is minimal as existing data show that the planned increase in mechanized
fishing vessels under the project will not tax existing resources. Also
measures would be introduced under the project to monitor fish resources and
to control, as may be necessary in the future, the overall number of vessels
permitted to fish. Credit recovery, especially in the traditional fisheries
sector, could be an area of risk if fluctuations in the catch occur. Provi-
sion has, therefore, been made for such an eventuality through arrangements by
ARDC for rescheduling of loan repayments. Delay in the completion of marine
works is a potential risk which could affect project benefits. The monitoring
system envisaged under the project should help to minimize such delay by
timely detection of problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement between
India and the Bank and the Association, respectively; the draft Gujarat Project
Agreement between the Association, the Bank, and the State of Gujarat; the
draft ARDC Agreement between the Association, the Bank, the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation; the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) and Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association and the text of a
draft Resolutions approving the proposed Loan and Development Credit are being
distributed to Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
63.       Additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be:
(a) the execution of the Gujarat Project Agreement;
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement;



- 19 -
(c) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and ARDC;
(d) the establishment of Project Supervision Committee; and
(e) the establishment of Central Coordinating Committee.
64.       The conditions of disbursement, specified in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, would be that ARDC prepares a Project banking
plan (see para 45) and the withdrawal of subsidies to fishermen for the
purchase of mechanized fishing trawlers financed from the proceeds of the
loan and credit (see para 51).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan/credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Date: March 21, 1977






ANNEX I
-- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHE                                      Page      1
L ANC  ARE A  (THOU  KM2I I;                u     - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  -
---------------                         ~~~~~INDIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19703
TOTAL       3280. 5                                          MOST RECENT
AGRZIC.      1781.1                         1960       1910    ESTIMAtE            INDONESIA        PHILIPPINES     BRAZIL*
--   - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -      -  - - -  - -     - -  - - -  -  -  - -  - - -
GNP PER CAPITA (US$!                           70.0        110.0        150.0                110.0        230.0        54.0.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULA'ION (MID-YE, MILLION)               429. 0        5)12.7       609.6                115. 6       36.9         92 .8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                            131.0        165.0       186.0                681.0        12 3.0       I11.0
PER SC. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND             24.5.o       290.0       339.0 -/a            1.05.0        279.0        66.0o
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND              0..2        42. 7         39.9                4 5. 9       44. 2        38.4
CRUCE  DEATH RATE PER, THOUSAND            23.9        18. 8         15.7                2 0.6        1 3.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            13 9. 0    ~          120-14.0.0 /b.                         80.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             1.1.7       41.2         (.9.5                 1.5.0       55.6         5 9. 7
GRCSS RFPRODUCTION RATE                     3.2          2.9          2.8                  3 .2        3. 3          2.6
POPULATIC3' GROWTH RaTE (8)
TOTAL                                      1 .8          2.1.        2.14                 2. 0         3 .0         2. 9
UROAN                                       2.5 /b       3.2          3.1                 3. 7 /a      4.0          5 .0
URBAN POPLLATION I8 0O- TOTAL)               17.9          1 9. 8      20.6                 1 7. 0 /b    27.6        5o..
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            4 1.0        hi3.6        Lo.01                1.1.0        45.6         42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                             55.9         55.3        56.7                 53.5          51.6        5 5.0
65 YEARS ANC OVER                           3.1          3.1          3.2                 2.5           2.8         3 .0
AGE (JEPENDENCY RATIO                         0. 8         0.8          0.8                  0.9          0.9          0.8
ECUNOPIC CEFENCENCY RATIO                     1.3 /         .           1.2 /                 . .         1. 5         1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            t000.0 /d   1 13080.0     26566.0               2 59. 3      3 54. 0      2 50.:0
USERS I8 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                    ..                     15.8 /d               ..2.0                    1.6
E 3PL CYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            189000.0            .      221000.0         ~.               12300.0      29600.0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (8)               73. 0                     72.0                   .          55.0 Ia     44.0
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)                 1.0           .           2.0 tl-JL             .            .
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD 85-
HIGHEST    58 OF HOUSEHOLDS                26.7        25. 0 ~         ...                                         3 5 . 0/a
HIGHEST 208 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  51.7        53.1      ~     .                    ..                     62.0
LOWEST   208 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 4i..         4.TI          ....                                          3. 0/a
LOWEST   40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 13.6        13. 1 7a       1..                               .           o. o 7e
DISTPIBUT ION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
A OWNEd BY TOP 108 OF OWNERS                   .             ..                                ..                    45.0
I CWNEnT BY SMIALLEST 108 OwNERS               .             ..                                ..                      1 .5
HEALTH AND NUTrITION
POPULATION PFF PHYSIC IAN                 5800.0/If    4800.0        (.620.0 /a         2 7650. 0          ..      1950. 0
POPULAT ION PN     USlGPEON                520. 7F.    5 110. 0      (,260.0  d8 010.0                     .       3300.UA~
FCPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BEC               2600.03 7K   1620. 0           .               1220. 0       850.0        260.0
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALOR IES (% OF kERUUIPEMENTSI            95. 0        93.0          91.0D /h            89.0        100.0        109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   55. 0        5 3.0        52.0 7Fh             43.0         45.0         64.0
-CF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              19.0 A       16.0             .                14.0         22.0         39.0
CEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4                  44. 0          .             .                               9.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            38O /0       68.0 /       79.0 lb              69.0        108.0 Ab      87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                            90a           .         28.0 /T              12. 0        48.0 7V      28S.0C) /
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDEC
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  12.0         12.0                              12.0         10.0         13.0
VOCATIONAL ENRULLMENT
(A OF SECCNDARYI                           8.0          6.0LS /.                         29.0          6.0 /c      1 7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (83                      24.0         33.0        36.0 /bi                .                      6 8.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    2. 6 k.        .          ?.L.ja               I..           .
CCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                              ...                                            .         66.0 /d. a   73.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(8 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                         .....                                                    2 3.0 /d     46.0
-R~AL GWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                           .                         ..                              6.0 /        8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                5.0         2L.0        23.0/a               1 14. 0      45.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POP)                 0.7          L.0          1.o7a-               2.0          8.0         25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                 46.0        114.0        129.0                20.0        235.0         4.91.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     0.2          0.3          0.3                  0.2          1. 2 /f      2. 7
SEE NOTES AND CEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
SaTrES
tolos   -t-v i tid. da-  fir 1lot  -.f-rccovar-  rn 099 ard 195>  or, 155 ooc-on 1968 a-d 1S ,  and for Mout Knoont Esri te between
1911 sod 1975
ENDL-        .     -    i-a ,     -  ISt   go-e  c  po,paoL- t -rn-  1i  -dW 96  and tt  to la   forc  aged  15-59  'd  1964.
-,rd ppl:-ai%  F-r wok,  c 962,  g 1-1itlclo  -id-so  bottoorse  nod oii-lo  rogi-t-rd. 000 all  praticing
hi 1957.  T_ 166-62.  I,  -li cod 14-I9 yeas  fLakncoieol, '  Housholds
-SI .ter.. tOO -0 1967
'-IIf  V . L5ItAL  92 ft,  1971, _c  eRm-  ofppltinuder  15  -d  Si and0cr tlao  for..  aged  15-59,
la7  v-1 pr-racg l,- - oDecoco.fasrform  -'c  group  15-5  IBRD report gives a figure
o 180.4  Milr  hear.d o-  he 1971 poet.Ic s-o  - -no  The diffrnei  do one  cha-go  in the defloition
This 1Ice. 010 ccIiit of sor  a  cais  ohIafo-soo. '  Rgri-is -da Ppll-tol  for cek.
LND ON E S A7    .  1261.01  b 19'1
P971.IPfENfS  911  .  As Fociccicci  of no~~~~~ ~ ~~pl-v-et  ib  7-12 nod 13-16 nas  ..aor a..pec.... i N.,c o  too ld-g pri-ato vocaiona  schools
'd. 10611 hii-ho-i d,loidecyI
R9. 3JIy 71. 1976
DEFINlTTIOliS iF SOlIAL TNIIiCATCIRS
Land A-c (thoul..                               nnacoprnrigrre      osalndcddh   soe  fpntsn
Teti -I eol  iiiarcuO  cisprssn  lad aea  ndInlnd  ates -oai  en  fmal  grdooonssac  trlod  o  cetlfnd'narec.an
curo -- Mat  ocof nt mce  f arlcl cralare  onud  emprarly  r  nxt iar  pesonel  itheranip_orenpesnteg
poosntl  ur'es  aurs or -e&kIce  grec  rt  le  Hpdninpe  eota  ad-PpoainPiiedb2iahrofbcielbd
tailaw.                 Id   -ilaleiopuli          an  rnt  ena  and i   spce ised"bo a  and
~~~~~~~~eaiitto       etr,ecudane   n  uedndetbibnr   e
Hoenlatbo an  ail.sais  tsa                       d oalr  to creek,. neIu_ icec ueain  ed,se   uni
aorf1o9 weed-ya  e  lono,  90,dO  .n.1..ai     oe  sunsdbyHS a. _ o  byllgia  nnifo  erOFetet
roosa1in -desit -on  saad _ea-Nu-va  pplclc  er_'ireklo  eo
orsor  (199  bertaret)  ol  cocci  nina.  Pe capita nael  of-k netII_ as np'  o)  Poen e et o  e
-  I i   ~~~ ~~~~~-Y- .r 1bet- ii 19e6aG es ndo,n 16  n 1970,   '   g-ds  etl poti  n  2  ies o  enIpoei  5n
Iticeci  d-t -yvce fbo  esaIdnb  i  nai  ee  one yecr _7  -4 "Pith lndhidn  vobeaegen.sgnte  sa  odrre
Lif -noct-1 atbrt- oo  Avrrc c oo-e d nf -ent -o life  r -o-nossP- logp,d~l-  tt~.    f  .
dconlcplsg.ccns,-nues1y                     Adlace    plreioe ratio-d eP dnar school I - f fnrllen  of a1  ageda
iru  erdticsrc-tta voohroflv  agi-es5cnneil precg  o Iroe  coo-g  ouato.icne  ciIrcae
Cr.~  -   - ga..d~gI  -  . d a 9 -11,- .t-,  seonar  edU ai  rqure  at leant font-year  ofI I   aptoe  pns
PPcolto. rwbrt  0  rc-ruicdlk  iro.sun  ac of total  -n-grsfction. p -nodec nnn p- -d vocFAtIonalhe tenth slI tratc  S-y
pop,latsn  d f nc-v  deciestsnar I  rha   ar 96s na   1ff 7ci  copr-d isroin  o  otco  it  0yaso  g,crepnc
hiic oldcaavucotrocore                               aregoeril  nclde. .  d
debo oplcio  C.ofical  -Ilaieofurantotocl  oplalo  tem  f obolog eusdd fistandseon Ionuj  Tta-pardo
ihcb-tof agsd2 hrni  h.                        Adult Iid te..o raI-,   - LPreeedo  is-  (bE.t  odad es)a
aooprns o  hochvonen  deice  ndr avI prc h, - soilcol p....   in1 Pee-ocbpe  ron jaer,d2  -r dverfg o_- bo  of1h pes  pot-yroestin
fanilnnlccoisooncri 1;. ef orrcod cuantcsPercld c-u-1   ci-l  onrsc f -pdnaso aAdruedor-  andp-doc-led  acco
cano  ofchil-beroo  age(154'.poem  oh  rorbirh-cntro  deire qmc7ne-ed dwelnswtbon  -ee eAtn (-  f-  y-upe  tonon-stiona
to all  mrredoce  co)  C-p-dsk air,. _roy        deling ,I uranad-  total ar-a --clou   i -idn  r -Otsd  pipe
def fint-sI  aic  siuuaeeiopaal.grid                elns oetdt    l ctricit 1ec-d 1-1Ecspn  asabsefe
Laorfot  it _' nssril,ir IT -h   -   Y f-Sglilnc  no  nc  (in - forniogf d-ohraig cwlig  onid.~  ~   . i..I -r -.yb  
faresia.  bocig  n  fobnoliyeoos-c  i  oidloor,ao
ecetod  ee  ,r  o  a_  nkitan Ic   foiCo  ossou-do_od ra5o toprer Id icdbpdc  ire. rhaiavd  of-popula ion -otid
soc _isc-  ccu-s_  _ oty  u1-o t-ro, ch.,,) 'cj-otrtusrnc  ic  ci  onre  blihdl,nvo
di b-h-0  Yd           If           P-           A,-g~~~~~~roocngrb-r (cotthen.orP 
lT- an  pnnb- -s i,"'0) -if  co-   --sa'Ic--dgrids bnh  aI t l-wIn  Io  toponi  codes- ports o   e ctr..Icity, i.
Oclbad B-cr-is--s   d   ,,  J~~  -d  -          -sb-aiod Iro   daesceoatt-ltoe  oot  fnwpit
fhysciasas  noi,&   d  f,,h-tee.  ii-ccla   -olrrjr  levelf



AIO1M I
ECONOMIC DEVEOMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974 -i US$140
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 J                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTB (%. constant prioes)
USS Bln.       x                                1961/62-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices               80.4       100.0                                   3.4                 3-7                1.9
Gross Domestic Investment          15.1        18.8
Gross National Saving             13.9         17.3
Current Account Balance           -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                       -1.2        -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor eost)         Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US  Bin.               % Min,                      9        US       ofNai         Average
Agriculture                        24.5                46.6            130.0   72.1          188             64
Industry                           11.8                22.3             20.2   11.2          582            199
Services                           16.3                315.             50.2    6.7          142            186
Total/average                      52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0         292             100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government _                         Central Govern  nt
(Res. Bln)            % of GDP                   (Re. Bln)               of GDP
1975/76      1975/76   1973/74-1975/76          1975/76        1974775   1972/73-1974F75
Current Receipts                   107.63          18.2          17.3              112.17           9.1           9.2
Current Expenditures               98.9            16.9          16.3              112.17           8.2           8.7
Current Surplus/Deficit             8.64           1.3            1.0                -              0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures  e/           40.40            5.8          5.4                85.23           4.3           4.1
External Assistance CPP (net)       10.17           1.4          1.0                10.17            1.4          1.0
MONEY, aREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66   1t970/7   R 1971/72    1972/73    1975/74    1974/75    March 1975      March 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
-.&&Y a-d Cuasi1.oney                    61.4      105.7      i28.'.      12.2      169.1       187.4       187.2           213.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8        56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9      102.0       102.6            107.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor             28.1        56-7       64.4       76.0       90.1      100.5       109.5            134.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                      June   1975    June   1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          24.0       24.4       26.3       27.9        27.2       25.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      181.1      138.4      207.1      254.2      313.0        316.0          290.5
Annaal percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7        5.5        4-0        9.9        22.7       23.1                       -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.9        8.6       21.3       19.6        12.6        9.8                        4.8 1
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8       17.4       13.6       18.0        18.5       11.5                       22.9 B/
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1974 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1976.
World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
*1/ Quick Estimates.
a/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
E Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advancee to third parties have been netted out.
/ Credit to Government.
v Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1972/73     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76 h/            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(US$ Million)                                                   US$ Mln.        %
Exports of Goods                  2,558       3,239       4,143      4,555                  Jute Manufacturers    299            9
Imports of Goods                 -2,682      -3,971      -5,739      -6,102                Tea                    247            7
Trade Balance                       124      - 732       -1,596      -1,547                 Cotton Textiles        391          11
NFS (net) i                      - 146         n.a,        n.a.        n.a.                Engineering Goods       390          11
Others               2,134          62
Resource Gap                     - 270         n.a.        n.a.        n,a.                Total                 3,461         100
Interest Payments (net)          - 237       - 233       - 260       - 261
Other Factor Ptyments (net) i/   -    8        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfers -                  -   50        n.a,        n.c.        n.a.
Balance on Current Account       _ 565         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1976 h/
Official Aid                                                                                                                  us$ Mln.
Disbursements                   955       1,249       1,766       2,249                Repayable in foreign currency       11,247.7
Amortization                   -445        -459        -519        -522                 Repayable through export of goods     635
Transactions with IMF                            75         530         205                Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,882.7
All Other Items                      89         205          41         500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76      17.2 percent _/
Increase in Reserves (-)           - 34        -105          38        -794
Gross Reserves (end year)         1,311       1,416       1,378       2,172
Net Reserves (end year)           1,311       1,341         773       1,474                 IBRD/IDA LENDING.  June 30, 1976     (US$ Ml.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                 IBRD     IDA
Imports                             265         720       1,451       1,417                Outstanding and Disbursed       435     2,948
of which: Petroleum               265         719       1,451       1,417                Undisbursed                      266    1,236
Outstanding including           701    4,184
Exports                              41          20          26        n.a.                  Undisbursed
of which: Petroleum                37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE 1/
Prior to mid-December 1971   :   US$1.00 - Rs 7.5                                           After end June 1972   :   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00   US$0.133333                                      Spot Rate December 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to         :   US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                                     approx. US$1.00 - Rs 8.901
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376                                                    approx. Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.112
h/ Estimated.
i/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
i/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transaction) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                  US$ Million -/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5
41 Credits fully disbursed                                             2,238.9
614-IN         1969   India      Tarai Seeds                     13.0      -            3.8
203-IN         1970   India       Punjab Agricultural Credit      -        27.5         9.2
226-IN         1971   India       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4         2.3
242-IN         1971   India       Power Transmission II           -        75.0        19.3
250-IN         1971   India       Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit  -        35.0         5.7
264-IN         1971    India      Cochin II Fertilizer            -        20.0         1.0
267-IN         1971    India      Wheat Storage                   -         5.0         3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI       Industry DFC IX                59.0      -            2.3
278-IN         1972    India      Mysore Agricultural Credit      -        40.0         4.2
294-IN         1972    India      Bihar Agricultural Markets      -        14.0        11.4
312-IN         1972    India      Population                      -        21.2         9.9
342-IN         1972    India      Education                       -        12.0        11.3
356-IN         1972   India       IDBI                            -        25.0        16.4
377-IN         1973    India      Power Transmission III          -        85.0        48.6
378-IN         1973    India     Mysore Agricultural Markets      -         8.0         7.6
902-IN         1973    ICICI      Industry DFC X                 70.0      -           10.1
390-IN         1973   India       Bombay Water Supply             -        55.0        43.4
391-IN         1973    India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        33.0         1.7
392-IN         1973    India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.  -        38.0        17.8
403-IN         1973    India      Telecommunications V            -        80.0        21.4
427-IN         1973   India       Calcutta Urban Development      -        35.0        18.5
440-IN         1973   India       Bihar Agricultural Credit       -        32.0        20.1
456-IN         1974   India       HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0        11.7
481-IN         1974   India       Trombay IV                      -        50.0        27.5
1011-IN         1974   India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD        52.0      -           41.9
482-IN         1974   India       Karnataka Dairy                 -        30.0        29.8
502-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Canal CAD             -       83.0         59.4
520-IN         1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer               -        91.0        46.1
521-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Dairy                 -        27.7        27.5
522-IN         1974   India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy            -        16.4        16.4
526-IN         1975   India       Drought Prone Areas             -        35.0        31.4
1079-IN         1975   India       IFFCO Fertilizer              109.0     -            91.8
1097-IN         1975   India       Industry DFC XI               100.0     -            72.3
532-IN         1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -       45.0         37.4
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                       -        75.0        43.8
541-IN         1975   India       West Bengal Agrc. Dev.          -        34.0        32.7
562-IN         1975   India       Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD    -        24.0        21.8
572-IN         1975   India       Rural Electrification           -        57.0        56.6
582-IN         1975   India       Railways XIII                   -       120.0        53.9
585-IN         1975   India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -        40.0        40.0
598-IN         1975   India       Fertilizer Industry             -       105.0       103.2
604-IN         1975   India       Power Transmission IV           -       150.0       150.0
609-IN         1975   India      Madbya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -         4.0         4.0
610-IN         1976   India       Integrated Cotton Development   -        18.0        18.0
616-IN         1976   India       Industrial Imports XI           -       200.0        19.1
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0      -          145.0
1260-IN         1976   India       IDBI II                        40.0      -           40.0
1273-IN         1976   India       National Seed                  25.0      -           25.0
1313-IN         1976   India       Telecommunications VI          80.0      -           70.3
1335-IN         1976   India       Bombay Urban Transport        *25.0      -           29-%
Total                                                          1,750.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                       774.4     24.2
Total now outstanding                                            976.]  4,087.9
Amount sold                                111.5
of which has been repaid               111.5                     _
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   976.]  4,087.9
Total undisbursed (including *)                                  502.5  1,103.8     1,606.3
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                              Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2       -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1      3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                           6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:   Sold                             6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                           11.9        -       11.9
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                         25.5       6.5      32.0
Undisbursed                      10.6        -       10.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,606 million as of January 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN.   Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    Puniab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267     Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403     Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 242     Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377     Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604     Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II suffered initial delays because of problems
associated with the preparations for international bidding and the analysis



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
of a very large number of bids involved. All contracts have now been awarded.
Due to variations in exchange rates, an undisbursed balance of about US$2
million, by the Closing Date, is likely. For Power Transmission III, vir-
tually all equipment has been ordered; there will be a substantial cost
overrun due to international price increases, part of which is being met
from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV, bids for most of
the equipment have been invited.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598     Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri projet plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312     Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982



A4NEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively.    Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502     Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with repect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335    Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977 Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and 175
double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding bus
bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly com-
missioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in progress.
Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project are under
way.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       The State of Gujarat for harbor improvements and other
civil works; ARDC for refinancing bank loans for project
financed investments made to fishermen, cooperatives and
entrepreneurs.
Amount:              US$18.0 million (US$14.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million
IDA Credit)
Terms:               Loan - Third Window Terms with first repayment due on
January 15, 1983 and final repayment due on January 15,
2001.
Credit - Standard
Relending Terms:     GOI to GOG:  Funds for harbor improvements and
other civil works would be made available to
GOG in accordance with GOI standard arrangements
for development assistance to state governments.
GOI to ARDC: Repayable over 9 years at 6-3/4%
interest per annum minimum less 1/4% prompt payment
discount.
ARDC to Banks: Interest at 8% per annum minimum
with repayment up to 9 years set to coincide with
payments by ultimate borrowers; refinance of up to
80% of individual loans.
Banks to Borrowers:
Category A: to GFCCA, cooperatives and
private entrepreneurs for ice plants, ice
storage, fish storage, processing plants,
frozen storage and trucks at an annual
interest of not less than 11% for periods
of up to 9 years.
Category B: to cooperatives and fishermen
for trawlers at not less than 11% interest
per annum for periods of up to 9 years.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Category C: to cooperatives and fishermen for
for canoes with outboard motors and gear, and
for outboard motors for existing canoes repay-
ment up to 5 years (3 for outboard motors) at
an annual interest of not less than 11%;
Lending Conditions:
(1) Banks to Category A: Ultimate borrowers
to have adequate reserve capital and staff
satisfactory to ARDC to operate the
facilities for which loans are advanced.
Borrowers contributions should be not less
than 20%.
(2) Banks to Category B: Existing vessel
owners will be ineligible to participate
under the scheme. Borrowers contribution
to be not less than 15%.
(3) Banks to Category C: Borrowers contribution
to be not less than 7.5% except for outboard
motors where borrowers contribution is to
be not less than 10%.
Project
Description:         The project is aimed at improvement of existing harbor
and shore facilities including expansion of the trawler
fleet serving Mangrol and Veraval, and modernization
of the traditional fishermen sector around central
and northern Gujarat. Project components would
include:
improvement of the fishing harbors at Mangrol
and Veraval to permit more mechanized fishing
vessels to use these facilities and to provide
better protection against adverse weather;
improvement of shore facilities and services at
Mangrol and Veraval to provide suitable support
for the existing fleet and expansions which
are expected to occur as a consequence of the
project;
provision of credit to entrepreneurs to establish
fish processing, freezing, and ice plants at the
two harbors;



ANNEX III
Page 3
construction and equipping of 270 14.8 meter
mechanized fishing vessels and their sale on
credit to fishermen;
assistance to traditional fishermen by the (i)
provision, on credit, of 350 9 meter fishing
canoes equipped with outboard motors and gear,
and of 1,400 outboard motors; (ii) improvement
in the infrastructure serving eight fishing
villages and (iii) improvement in the fish
marketing system of these villages;
provision of two fish net manufacturing machines for
GFCCA;
technical assistance for test fishing, a marketing
study, and project implementation.
Estimated Costs:                                           (US$ Million)
Local     Foreign     Total
I.   Harbor Improvements
Mangrol                  1.7        0.3        2.0
Veraval                  7.0        2.2.       9.2
Subtotal               8.7        2.5       11.2
II.   Shore Facilities
including supporting
equipment
Mangrol                  0.3        0.2        0.5
Veraval                  1.0        1.1        2.1
Netting Machinery           -         0.1        0.1
1.3        1.4        2.7
III.    Mechanized Fishing
Vessels
Mangrol                  1.3        0.2        1.5
Veraval                  3.9        0.4        4.3
5.2        0.6        5.8
IV.    Traditional Fishermen
Component
Canoes                   0.6         -         0.6
Motors and fishing gear 0.9         0.6        1.5
Trucks                   0.1         -         0.1
Infrastructure           0.4        0.1        0.5
2.0        0.7        2.7



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Costs:    V.    Technical Assistance          0.3      2.6    2.9
(CONT'D)
VI.   Total before Contingencies    17.5     7.8    25.3
VII.   Contingencies
- Physical                    1.7     0.6    2.3
- Price                       7.3     3.1   10.4
9.0     3.7   12.7
Total Project Cost            26.5    11.5   38.0
Financing Plan:                                              (US$ Million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Bank/IDA                            6.5    11.5    18.0
GOI/GOG                            11.1      -     11.1
ARDC                                4.0      -      4.0
Banks                               2.2      -     2.2
Ultimate Beneficiaries              2.7      -      2.7
26.5    11.5   38.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                                         (US$ Million)
FY78   FY79   FY80     FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual          0.2    2.8    5.3     5.7      3.4      0.6
Cumulative      0.2    3.0    8.3    14.0    17.4      18.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        International competitive bidding (ICB) would be followed
for procurement of (i) 1400 outboard motors (about US$0.6
million) (ii) dredging equipment (about US$1.5 million)
(iii) plant and equipment required for shore facilities
(about US$1.9 million) and (iv) for harbor improvement
works contracts at Veraval (about US$4.75 million). The
total value of contracts submitted to ICB is estimated
at US$8.75 million. Exceptions to the above would be
small contracts for equipment of less than US$100,000
which cannot be bulked. Mechanized fishing vessels (with
engines), and canoes have been traditionally designed and
inexpensively built from local wood to meet sea conditions
off the coast of Gujarat. Construction is to customer
requirements. These items valued at about US$7.2 million
would be locally procured through GFCCA and other local
suppliers. The two hundred seventy inboard engines for
mechanized fishing vessels would be procured locally to
meet customer choice and ensure efficient after sales
and spares service. Fishing gear (US$0.9 million) would
be procured according to customer preference. Civil works
for shore facilities (US$1.1 million), for the traditional



ANNEX III
Page 5
fishermens' component (US$0.8 million) and for harbor
works at Mangrol (US$1.6 million) would be procured
locally under GOG procedures which are satisfactory. The
first two of these works would be spread over five years
and scattered geographically. The Mangrol works would be
too small to interest foreign bidders.
Technical
Assistance:          About US$2.9 million excluding contingencies will be
provided for technical assistance as follows:
For GOI
-    to finance two test fishing operations, one
off Gujarat, and the other off Andhra Pradesh,
for purposes of resource data collection and
determination of improved methods of catching
fish, plus the cost of hiring a fishery re-
source management specialist to assist in
preparing Terms of Reference for the test
fishing operations.
-    to finance an all-India fish marketing study
covering fresh and dried fish in order to
identify and develop solutions to existing
marketing constraints and to assess future
export and domestic demand.
For GOG
-    to finance the cost of three consultants
(harbor engineering, electrical/mechanical
engineering, and rock excavation specialist)
to assist in harbor construction work, and one
management specialist to assist in establish-
ing management and auction systems for the
fisheries terminals to be constructed at
Mangrol and Veraval.
Rate of Return:
-    On the traditional fishermen component about 53%;
on harbor improvements of Mangrol about 16% and
at Veraval about 18%; on ice plants about 45% to
59%; on fish meal plants about 33% and over 60%
on freezing plants. The overall economic rate of
return would be about 24%.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1326 (b) of March 16, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDIA - GUJARAT FISHERIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Project preparation was by a Group of experts from
the Pre-Investment Survey and Fishing Harbors Unit
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (GOI)
and the Gujarat Department of Fisheries working
full-time between March 25, 1976 and May 2, 1976.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Harbors,
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (GOI)
and the Gujarat Department of Fisheries with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project
January 1976 and March 25, 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 2, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 18, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
July 1, 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III     Special Conditions
(a)  Establishment of Project Supervision Committee by GOG
and appointment of project Coordinator/Secretary
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 33).
(b)  Establishment of a Central Coordinating Committee
by GOI (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 33).
(c)  The upgrading program for the Gujarat Fisheries
Central Cooperative Association Ltd. shall be
implemented (para. 34).
(d)  The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
would provide a Banking Plan (Condition of Disburse-
ment, para. 44).
(e)  Terms of Reference for a study covering the marketing
of fresh and dried fish throughout India to be agreed
with Bank and Association (para. 46).
(f)  The Statistical Unit of the GOG Department of Fisheries
would be strengthened (para. 46).
(g)  Terms of reference for surveys (fishermen household
incomes, vessel production, and credit) to be carried
out by DACFF to be approved by Bank and Association
(para 47).
(h)  Subsidies on mechanized fishing vessels to be with-
drawn (Condition of disbursement, para. 50).
(i)  Proposals for financing a Boat Risks Fund shall
be prepared by GOG in consultation with ARDC
(para. 51).
(j)  A Fisheries Terminal Division would be established
to manage the terminals to be constructed and operate
a fish auction system for which the services of a
consultant will be provided (para. 38).






IBRD 12317
|rronsg&ns                                  OCTOBER 197
23'         K   TC~~~~~~~~H ad                   Milyo       U R E N    D\f
Mndv
Jodrya                   u~~~~~~~~Srend,onogo 1p  Ka,r     NADIAD             G0HRA
C -        c    H                                                                                                 19X \Hd,nc 
The b.,,dA,,I, diw  on, Bh,...ap do not                         \I                                            ,OO
E',dn ,B o..e d IoflAm e  r  r ran,   ivwe  I  N D I  A          \                                        .,om on 0  B   U L   S   A   R  .9 o
PAKISTAtl'\'CHIN A3'GJRTFSEISPOCT Jj/SLSS N A S                                                                                          I2 K
-                                  V er v l  Pro ectSI3es  nk/ar 
I42   IN DIA  .'--,-, ;' 72  9*          F1shng Groonds                      stDhmA                           \      *    >      ,N    %
-fe    N      LA                Es )  Other Roa ds                            /   , / 7
"'AS  50  'IAO  BA '
-                 10.A            -' doy --. -Radwoys                    20   49                      , /Shrg  n T}  H  A  N  A >Jzu
p d e n g o"""0           -\   StBse ond Northern  Terr'Rary Boundarres '/j<{%/\
-22'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
4 rG L 2 ,G a  . f   S R I  RAN K A  S -   o                                                       D e9e
5B'  'a"  '  ' --IflBernoB flOn   ROOBdA.GADH '7-3'a
72'  ,  BS,2- J  ,  3E'B '  96' y\                                   7K                                                R           T



