-7 7 3
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 695-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Gujarat Fisheries Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;


﻿-2-
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association, the Bank and the State of Gujarat, acting by its
Governor (heieinafter called Gujarat), Gujarat has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project;
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association, the Bank and the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (hereinafter called ARDC), ARDC has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project; and
(F) the Association is willing, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Credit available upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "Gujarat" means the State of Gujarat, a State of
India, or any successor thereof;


﻿-4-
(c) "ARDC" means Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "Gujarat Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association, the Bank and Gujarat of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(e) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) hereof, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g) "CCC" means Central Coordinating Committee, a committee
to be established by the Borrower within its Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation under Section 3.02 (a) hereof, and comprising of
the Joint Secretary for Fisheries of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation (Chairman), the Deputy Commissioner for Fisheries
Planning (Secretary), the Managing Director of ARDC or his
representative, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of Shipping and Transport, and such other persons as
may be necessary;


﻿-5-
(h) "GFCCA" means Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association Limited, an association registered under the Bombay
State Cooperatives Act, 1925;
(i) "PSC" means Project Supervision Committee, a committee
to be established by Gujarat under Section 2.08 (d) of the Gujarat
Project Agreement, and comprising of the Secretary of Gujarat's
Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Forest and Fisheries
(Chairman), the Secretary of the Department of Finance or his
representative, the Secretary of the Public Works Department or
his representative, the Commissioner of Fisheries, the Director of
Ports, the Regional Director of ARDC and the Chairman of GFCCA,
and such other persons as may be necessary;
(j) "GPD" means Gujarat Ports Directorate or any successor
thereof;
(k) "FTD" means Fisheries Terminal Division, a Division
of the Office of Commissioner of Fisheries of Gujarat;
(1) "FPCS" means Fishermen's Primary Cooperative Societies
or any successor thereof;
(m) "DACFF" means the Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives,
Forest and Fisheries of Gujarat; and
(n) "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act of 1934.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions set forth in the
Schedule to the Gujarat Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March
1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1987, and ending March
1, 2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause
to be carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
fishery and engineering practices and shall provide or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Gujarat and ARDC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Gujarat Project Agreement and the ARDC Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth with respect to the Project,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate Lo enable Gujarat and ARDC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-9-
(c) In order to assist Gujarat and the Indian Institute of
Management, Ahmadabad or such other institution mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association to carry out Parts A
through C of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to
Gujarat in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements
for development assistance to the States and Agencies of India the
proceeds of the Credit required by them to carry out their Parts
of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with ARDC on terms and conditions (including inter alia
those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) satisfactory to
the Association for the purpose of lending to ARDC sums out of
the proceeds of the Credit sufficient for ARDC to carry out its
obligations in respect of Part D of the Project. The Borrower
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish CCC within
its Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation in order to provide
policy guidance.


﻿- 10 -
(b) By December 31, 1977 or such later date as may be
agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall begin the two test
fishing operations under Part C (1) (a) of the Project and they
shall be completed by June 30, 1979 or such later date as may be
agreed by the Association. The terms of reference shall be prepared
by the consultant employed under Section 3.03 (a) hereof. Copies
of all quarterly progress reports and the final report of these
test fishing operations shall ue furnished to the Association
promptly upon their preparation.
(c) By December 31, 1977 or such later date as may be agreed
by the Association, the Borrower shall cause the Indian Institute
of Management, Ahmadabad or such other institution mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association to begin the fish
marketing study under Part C (1) (b) of the Project which shall be
completed by March 31, 1979 or such later date as may be agreed by
the Association. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation to prepare terms of reference for this
study satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower to
prepare terms of reference and to carry out the test fishing
operations under Section 3.02 (b) hereof, the Borrower shall
employ fisheries resources management consultants under Part C (3)
of the Project whose qualifications, experience and terms and


﻿- 11 -
conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b) By September 30, 1977 or such later date as may be
agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall institute a mandatory
fishing vessel registration scheme also applicable to Gujarat
in order to improve the control of fish resource exploitation.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Indian Institute
of Management, Ahmadabad or such institution agreed between the
Borrower and the Association under Sections 3.01 (c) and 3.02 (c)
hereof to tuaintain separate accounts for the Project and records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the Indian Institute
of Management, Ahmadabad or such institution under Section 3.05
hereof to: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the
Association made of its accounts relating to the Project for each
fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its accounts for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning its accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Gujarat Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Gujarat will be able to perform
its obligations under the Gujarat Project Agreement; or (ii) ARDC
will be able to perform its obligations under the ARDC Agreement
or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall
or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ARDC or for the suspension of the operations
of ARDC.


﻿- 14-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 4.01 hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 4.01 hereof shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Gujarat Project
Agreement on behalf of Gujarat have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the ARDC Agreement on
behalf of ARDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate action;
(c) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ARDC, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(d) PSC has been established by Gujarat under Section
2.08 (d) of the Gujarat Project Agreement; and
(e) CCC has been established by the Borrower under Section
3.02 (a) hereof.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 16 -
(a) tlat the Gujarat Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by and executed and delivered on behalf
of Gujarat and such Agreement is legally binding upon Gujarat
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of ARDC
and is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and ARDC, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and ARDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 22, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Government of
India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Fihance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) and
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Dredging equipment        1,400,000           100% of foreign
and spare parts                               expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
price)
(2) Civil works, mate-        7,900,000           50%
rials and equipment
under Parts A (1)
and A (3) of the
Project
(3) Consultants services        600,000           100%
(4) Cost of marketing         3,400,000           90% of local
study and test fish-                         expenditures
ing operations
(5) Loans by ARDC as des-     4,700,000           55%
cribed under Schedule
3 to this Agreement
TOTAL    18,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that
no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed
on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
(b) In respect of Part B (2) of the Project, under Category
(5) of this Schedule, no withdrawal shall be made unless the
subsidies to fishermen for the purchase of mechanized trawlers are
withdrawn.
(c) In respect of Part D of the Project, under Category
(5) of this Schedule, no withdrawal shall be made unless the
condition under Section 2.08 of the ARDC Agreement is fulfilled.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have or,
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the Bank
has, reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 22 -
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank under this
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as, in the
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) Improvement of harbors, shore services and
facilities at Mangrol and Veraval by the
construction and extension of breakwaters and the
dredging to form a tidal basin; development
of a land area for shore facilities; and
construction of additional berthing jetties,
wharves, maneuvering areas, a multi-berth slipway,
offices, marketing and utilities support facilities,
to be implemented by GPD. Adequate water and
electricity shall be supplied by Gujarat for the
efficient operation of these services and facilities.
(2) Management of the fishing terminals at Mangrol and
Veraval including the auction halls by FTD.
(3) Construction by Gujarat of approach roads and
water supply facilities for about eight villages
between Mangrol and Veraval.
Part B:
(1) GFCCA, cooperatives and private entrepreneurs shall
carry out the construction and operation of ice and
freezing plant, fishmeal plant and cold storage at


﻿- 24 -
Mangrol, Veraval and in other villages in the
sub-project area and procurement of trucks;
(2) Supply of about 270 trawlers of 9 to 15 meters
equipped with fishing gear for sale for cash
or on hire purchase to private fishermen by GFCCA;
(3) Procurement and supply of about 350 canoes with
outboard motors and fishing gear and about 1,050
outboard motors for fishing canoes by GFCCA;
and
(4) Procurement and operation of two fish net
manufacturing machines by GFCCA.
Part C:
(1) (a) Carrying out test fishing operations off the
coast of Gujarat and the State of Andhra
Pradesh by the Borrower;
(b) Carrying out an All-India fish marketing study
covering fresh and dried fish by the Indian
Institute of Management, Ahmadabad or such
institution agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Bank under Section 3.01
(c) and 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(2) Carrying out production, fishermen's households and
credit recipients surveys by the Department of
Fisheries of Gujarat; and


﻿- 25 -
(3) Provision of technical assistance in fisheries
resources management to the Borrower and technical
assistance in harbor engineering, underwater
rock excavation and fisheries resources and terminal
operation to Gujarat.
Part D:
A credit program to finance the civil works, materials
and equipment under Part B above, to be implemented
by ARDC and the Participating Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to ARDC:
For ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years:
(a) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25% for
prompt payment;
(b) repayment at the end of 9 years; and
(c) Borrower to carry exchange risk.
24   ARDC to Participating Bank:
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 8% to the
Participating Bank;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide with agreed
collection dates from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) ARDC to refinance the Participating Bank by loans not
exceeding 80% of individual loans.
3.   Participating Bank to Ultimate Borrowers:
(a) to GFCCA, cooperatives and private entrepreneurs
under Part B (1) of the Project:
(i) relending is for the construction of ice, freezing
and fish processing plant, ice and fish storage,
provision of trucks and two fish net manufacturing
machines;


﻿- 27 -
(ii) a loan ceiling of 80% of the cost of equipment and
civil works;
(iii) annual interest rate of not less than 11%;
(iv) repayment period not exceeding 9 years from
the date of each withdrawal; and
(v) ultimate borrowers to have capital and staff
considered adequate by ARDC to operate the
facilities.
(b) To cooperatives and fishermen:
(i) relending is for the purchase of mechanized trawlers
under Part B (2) of the Project;
(ii) annual interest rate of not less than 11%;
(iii) repayment period not exceeding 9 years from the
date of each withdrawal;
(iv) a loan ceiling of 85% of the purchasing cost;
and
(v) existing trawler owners are not eligible for
this financing.
(c) To cooperatives and fishermen:
(i) relending is for the procurement of 9 meter canoes
with outboard motors and fishing gear and for
outboard motors only for existing canoes, under
Part B (3) of the Project;


﻿- 28 -
(ii) a loan ceiling of 92.5% of the cost (90% for
provision of outboard motors only);
(iii) annual interest rate of not less than 11%; and
(iv) repayment period not exceeding 5 years (3 years
for provision of outboard motors only) from the
date of each withdrawal.
4.   General:
(a) ARDC and the Participating Bank to maintain separate
accounts for each of the above financing schemes and
GFCCA and FPCS shall maintain accounts satisfactory
to ARDC;
(b) Security and insurance to be in accordance with
arrangements between the Participating Bank and ARDC;
(c) ARDC to refinance the Participating Bank only after
determining that the completion of agreed items of
development is critical to Project implementation;
(d) ARDC to advise the Association prior to inviting
bids for the acquisition of equipment and contracts for
civil works where such bids are subject to international
competitive bidding under the Schedule to the Gujarat
Project Agreement;


﻿- 29 -
(e) all applications for refinancing having total investment
costs in excess of $500,000 equivalent, together with
appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to be
forwarded to the Association and the Bank for final
approval;
(f) loans may be re-scheduled, if necessary and in
agreement with ARDC, in the event of natural calamities
resulting in widespread fish famine or closure of
fishing operations for more than 100 days between the
months of April and October in any calendar year;
(g) all fish landings from trawlers registered at Mangrol
and Veraval shall be sold through their auction halls,
and shall be weighed and records maintained of catch
and prices of each class and variety of fish;
(h) repayments from ultimate borrowers under paragraphs
3 (a) and (b) above shall be made from fish sale
proceeds on regular weekly basis or when repayments
are made according to established practices of the
Participating Bank and/or ARDC; and
(i) where vessels are purchased under hire purchase
agreements through GFCCA or FPCS, such institutions
shall be permitted to retain an interest margin not
exceeding 0.5% to meet hire purchase costs.


