CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 695-IN
LOAN NUMBER 1394 T-IN
ARDC AGREEMENT
(Gujarat Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that ARDC agrees
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia
that ARDC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARDC, part of the funds required to
provide loans under Part D of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
ARDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, ARDC has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall take all steps as shall be
necessary on its part to carry out Part D of the Project in
accordance with a banking plan satisfactory to the Association and
the Bank and shall do so with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. ARDC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association and the Bank, including inter alia those set
forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. ARDC
shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, ARDC shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the goods, works and services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and
the Schedule to the Gujarat Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out Part D of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,
the Association, the Bank and ARDC.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association and the Bank may
otherwise agree, ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. ARDC: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Part D of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank all such information
as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.07. (a) ARDC shall, at tne request of the
Association or the Bank:
(i) exchange views with the Association and the Bank
with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
of the Loan; and
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank all such
information as the Association or the Bank shall
reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit and of the Loan, or the performance by ARDC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. ARDC shall prepare a Project banking plan,
acceptable to the Association and the Bank, specifying the terms,
conditions and procedures of lending by commercial banks, and the
Gujarat State Cooperative Bank Ltd. and refinanced by ARDC as
described under Part D of the Project and Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent technical staff in adequate number; and (ii) take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association or the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective. If the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, the Association and the
Bank shall promptly notify ARDC of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, of the Bank and of ARDC thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with their terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank
shall promptly notify ARDC of this event.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement
or the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cables address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS, WORLI
Bombay 18, India
Section 6.02. (a) So long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement and so long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to ARDC: (i) the obligations of ARDC to consult with and
to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; and
(ii) the obligations of the Bank to consult with and to furnish
information to ARDC shall be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are fulfilled by the Association.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Unless and until the Bank gives notice to the contrary
to ARDC, all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to this
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken in the name and on behalf
of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ARDC may be taken or executed by
its managing director or such other person or persons as ARDC
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.04. ARDC shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
ARDC, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by ARDC pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative


