CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 695-IN
LOAN NUMBER 1394 T-IN
GUJARAT PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Gujarat Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE STATE OF GUJARAT
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿GUJARAT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE STATE OF GUJARAT, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Gujarat).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Gujarat agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Gujarat agrees to undertake such obligations towards the Bank
as hereinafter set forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, Gujarat has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Gujarat shall and shall cause GPD, GFCCA,
and FTD to carry out Parts A, B, C (2) and C (3) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Gujarat shall assist ARDC to carry out the credit
program described in Part D of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to obtain the technical assistance
described in Part C (3) of the Project, Gujarat shall employ
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed between Gujarat,
the Association and the Bank, in the fields of harbor engineering,
underwater rock excavation and fisheries resource and terminal
operation.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Gujarat undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Gujarat to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, Gujarat shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Gujarat shall collect and furnish to the
Association and the Bank, promptly upon the preparation by GPD,
GFCCA and FTD, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association or the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) Gujarat shall cause GPD, GFCCA, and FTD to: (i) maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank all such information
as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Gujarat shall enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to examine all plant, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of GFCCA and FTD and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) Gujarat shall cause GPD, GFCCA and FTD
to exchange views with the Association and the Bank whenever
requested by the Association or the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the execution of their respective
Parts of the Project and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿- 7 -
(b) Gujarat shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and of the Loan, or the execution of the
Parts of the Project by GPD, GFCCA and FTD.
Section 2.07. (a) Gujarat shall cause the design and capacity
of the freezing and ice plant at Mangrol and Veraval and of the
proposed second block ice plant for Veraval to be prepared
and be reviewed by ARDC by June 30, 1981 or such later date as may
be agreed by the Association and the Bank.
(b) Gujarat shall consolidate the production, fishermen's
households and credit recipients surveys under Part C (2) of the
Prodject. Terms of reference for these surveys shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank for approval by September 30, 1977
or such later date as may be agreed by the Association and the
Bank.
Section 2.08. (a) By September 30, 1977 or such later date as
may be agreed by the Association and the Bank, Gujarat shall, in
consultation with ARDC, furnish a proposal for establishing a
Boat Risk Fund which shall be operated by GFCCA for the purpose of
providing insurance to vessel owners.
(b) Gujarat shall assist in the establishment and management
of FPCS.


﻿-8-
(c) Gujarat shall ensure that the project monitoring and
evaluation system in DACFF is adequately staffed to prepare
reports on the progress of Project implementation.
(d) Gujarat shall establish PSC in DACFF under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of DACFF. The Commissioner of
Fisheries shall act as Secretary of PSC and project coordinator.
Section 2.09. By October 31, 1977 or such later date as may
be agreed by the Association and the Bank, Gujarat shall strengthen
the Statistical Cell of its Department of Fisheries by appointing
a senior statistician whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed between
Gujarat, the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.10. Gujarat shall make available to FTD adequate
land and such constructions at Mangrol and Veraval harbor areas
as are necessary to carry out its functions described under
Section 2.12 hereof.
Section 2.11. Gujarat shall reorganize and strengthen GFCCA
in accordance with the proposal prepared by Gujarat in consultation
with ARDC and approved by the Association and the Bank. Gujarat
shall cause GFCCA to retain qualified accountants to maintain a
sound financial system for GFCCA and to appoint additional engineers
and a marketing manager for this purpose.


﻿- 9 -
Section 2.12. (a) By December 31, 1977 or such later date as
may be agreed by the Association and the Bank, Gujarat shall
establish FTD which shall develop and administer the fishing
terminal areas at Mangrol and Veraval, operate the auction halls
and issue leases of buildings and sites to enterpreneurs for
Project related work.
(b) By December 31, 1977 or such later date as may be agreed
by the Association and the Bank, Gujarat shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank the feasibility study on the deduction
of part of the proceeds of fish sales for the repayment of loans
obtained by fishermen from the Participating Bank and of the hire
purchase price of mechanized trawlers.
Section 2.13. By September 30, 1977 or such later date as may
be agreed by the Association and the Bank, Gujarat shall cause GPD
to appoint qualified technical staff for the carrying out of Part
A of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Gujarat shall and shall cause GPD, GFCCA and
FTD to maintain separate accounts for the Project and records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 3.02. (a) Gujarat shall and shall cause GFCCA and FTD
to: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Association and
the Bank made of their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheet of GFCCA and proforma balance sheet of FTD, statement of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the
Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of their financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association or the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association and the
Bank such other information concerning their accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association or
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Gujarat shall cause GPD to: (i) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank made of its accounts
under Section 3.01 above for each fiscal year, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the Association and the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning its accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association or the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Gujarat shall cause FTD to charge amounts
sufficient to enable FTD to cover all operating expenditures
and charges including taxes (if any), interest payment on
borrowings and depreciation.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, of the Bank and of Gujarat thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with their terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If either the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement terminates in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
or the Bank shall promptly notify Gujarat of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Gujarat:
Secretary to the Government
of Gujarat
Agriculture, Forests and Co-operation Department
Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India.
Cable address:
AGRISEC
GANDHINAGAR, INDIA
Section 5.02. (a) So long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement and so long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Gujarat: (i) the obligations of Gujarat to consult with
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; and
(ii) the obligations of the Bank to consult with and to furnish
information to Gujarat shall be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are fulfilled by the Association.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Unless and until the Bank gives notice to the contrary
to Gujarat, all actions taken (including the giving of approvals
or the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to this
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken in the name and on behalf
of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Gujarat may be taken or executed
by the Secretary to the Government of Gujarat or such other person
or persons as Gujarat shall designate in writing.
Section 5.04. Gujarat shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of Gujarat, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Gujarat
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF GUJARAT
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works under Part A (1) of the Project for Veraval
harbor comprising of breakwaters, quays, excavation and cofferdam;
contracts for the purchase of dredging equipment, outboard motors,
refrigeration equipment and net manufacturing machines costing
$100,000 or more shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the
pertinent provisions of the General Introduction thereto, on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   The entire civil works under 1. above shall be procured under
one work contract and bidders shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Wooden trawler hulls and their engines and canoes shall be
contracted by competitive bidding on the basis of local
advertising or other local procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
2.   All other civil works under Part A of the Project shall be
contracted by competitive bidding on the basis of local


﻿- 18 -
advertising or other local procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
3.   Fishing gears procured by ultimate borrowers under the credit
program provided for under Part D of the Project shall be in
accordance with the ultimate borrowers' preference.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a


﻿- 19 -
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactued in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Gujarat, the Association and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C


﻿- 20 -
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further compari-,n is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from Gr'6up C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D. Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works;
Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included
under Category (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, Gujarat
may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and application for prequalification


﻿- 21 -
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by Gujarat and GPD and
accepted by the Association and the Bank, a particular firm or
group of firms qualified for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by Gujarat,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
and the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. Gujarat shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Association and the Bank
in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedures as the Association or the


﻿- 22 -
Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under
Part D above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished
by Gujarat to the Association and the Bank for their comments
before the applicants are notified of Gujarat's decision, and
Gujarat shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association or the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and
materials for marine works and shore facilities under Parts A and
B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Gujarat shall cause to be
furnished to the Association and the Bank, for their comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
or the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to


﻿- 23 -
the bidding documents shall require the Association's and the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Gujarat
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association or the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they
determine that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Gujarat and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account, as the case may be, in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 24-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, Gujarat shall cause to be furnished to the
Association and the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account, as the case may be, in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with Lhe analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they determine
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Gujarat and state the
reasons for such determination.


