Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17240-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2391/TF. 28613-CHA)
December 19, 1997
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of thier official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed with-
out World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  Renminbi
Currency Unit Yuan (Y)
1991   $1 =Y5.32
1992   $1= Y 5.53
1993   $1=Y5.76
1994   $1  Y 8.62
1995   $1 = Y 8.35
1996   $1 = Y 8.30
1997   $1 - Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)             = 3.281 feet
1 square meter (mi)     = 10.764 square feet
I cubic meter (in3)     = 35315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)        = 0.621 mile
I ton-kilometer (ton-km)  = 0.621 ton-mile
I ton (metric)          = 2,208 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOMTA    - Bureau of Maritime Transportation Administration
DPA        - Dalian Port Authority
EACCF    - Country Director of China, East Asia and Pacific Region
EA2IN      - Infrastructure Division, Country Department 2, East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR      - Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region
EMC        - Environment Monitoring Center
G-BOMTA  - Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime Transportation Administration
GEF        - Global Environmental Facilities
GOC        - Government of China
GPA        - Guangzhou Port Authority
ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
ICR        - Implementation Completion Report
LME        - Large Marine Ecosystem
MOC        - Ministry of Communications
NCB        - National Competitive Bidding
NPA        - Ningbo Port Authority
S-BOMTA  - Shanghai Bureau of Maritime Transportation Administration
SAR        - Staff Appraisal Report
SEATRAC  - Ship Waste Tracking System
teu        - Twenty-foot equivalent unit
TF         - Trust Fund
TPA        - Tianjin Port Authority
XPA        - Xiamen Port Authority
Vice President      Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager      Jeffrey Gutman, EASTR
Staff Member        Toshiro Tsutsumi, Senior Port Engineer, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................... iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                       iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ......................................................           1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .......................................................           3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............. 13
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................                     14
E. Bank Performance .....................................................                            15
F. Borrower Performance .....................................................                        16
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                       17
H. Future Operation .....................................................                            19
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................                         20
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .....................................................                            22
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .....................................................                 23
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................................................            24
Table 3:  Project Timetable .....................................................                    24
Table 4:  GEF Grant/ Credit Disbursement .................................................... 25
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 26
Table Sb: Training (MOC  and the Six Ports) .................................................... 27
Table 6:  Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................ 28
Table 7:  Studies included in Project .....................................................            29
Table 8a: Project Costs .....................................................                        30
Table 8b: Project Financing .....................................................                    30
Table 8c: Allocation of Grant/Credit Proceeds .                         .............................................. 31
Table 9:  Economic Costs, Benefits and Major Financial Indicators ............. 31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                       ....................................... 32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                  ..  32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                       ..................................... 33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                        ....................................... 33
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ............................................. 35
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...................... 53
APPENDIX C: MAP .................................................                                               61
ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................................                                   63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2391/TF. 28613-CHA)
PREFACE
The Ship Waste Disposal Project in China, Credit 2391-CHA (SDR 11
million/$15 million) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant TF. 28613-CHA
(SDR 22 million/$30 million), was approved on June 17, 1992 and made effective on
December 12, 1992. The Credit and GEF grant were extended for one year, with project
closure on June 30, 1997. Final disbursements (recovery) is expected to be made in
December 1997; it is estimated that SDR 21,931,154.89 and SDR 10,894,540.45 were
disbursed, and SDR 68,845.11 and SDR 105,459.55 were canceled from the GEF grant
and Credit, respectively. In terms of US dollars, due to the appreciation of the SDR,
$32,309,401.27 and $15,378,043.23 were disbursed, and $93,758.73 and $141,010.71
were canceled from the GEF grant and Credit, respectively.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Messrs. Toshiro
Tsutsumi (Task Manager), Han-Kang Yen (Economic and Financial Analyst) of the
Transport Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EASTR) and Scott
MacKnight (Environmental consultant), and reviewed by Mr. Jeffrey S. Gutman (Sector
Manager, EASTR). The Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B.
The ICR was begun with the Credit and GEF grant closing and was based on
project supervision information and material in the project file. The Borrower contributed
to the ICR by evaluating the project execution and initial preparation. The Borrower also
agreed to provide information on project performance indicators for the period to June 30,
2003 (six years after closing).



- iv -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2391/TF. 28613-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    To protect and further enhance its sensitive marine and coastal environment from
pollution related to dumping of ship wastes, the Government of China (GOC) became a
signatory to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPOL 73/78). One component of the Convention is the need to provide port
facilities to receive and treat/dispose of wastes from ships. As the international
component of its marine commerce increased, reflecting a very large increase in
economic activity, China initiated an application to the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) to assist in a project to provide appropriate waste reception facilities within its six
major sea ports: Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou. The Ship
Waste Disposal Project, Credit 2391 (SDR 11 million/$15 million) and GEF TF. 28613-
CHA (SDR 22 million/$30 million), was approved on June 17, 1992 and made effective
on December 12, 1992.
Project Objectives
2.    The goal of the project was to reduce marine pollution, in both territorial waters of
China and adjacent international waters, through implementation of various measures
related to port and shipping wastes. Five specific objectives were used to achieve this
goal:
(a)   To assist the Government of China in meeting its obligations as a
signatory to MARPOL 73/78, through construction of port facilities to
receive and treat/dispose of wastes from shipping.
(b)   To augment and extend the pollution monitoring capabilities of the
Ministry of Communications, the Ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai,
Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime Transportation
Administration and S-BOMTA.
(c)   To develop and implement oil spill contingency and response plans for the
Ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou Bureau
of Maritime Transportation Administration and S-BOMTA, and to
promote the implementation of similar plans throughout the coastal ports
of China.



(d)   To develop and implement a Ship Waste Tracking System (SEATRAC)
among the Ministry of Communications, Ports of Dalian, Tianjin,
Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime
Transportation Administration and S-BOMTA.
(e)   To develop and implement a new fee schedule to provide adequate capital
repayment and maintenance operating funds for the facilities, thus
ensuring project sustainability.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was completed satisfactorily by June 30, 1997. The closing date was
extended for one year due to delays in the national policy component (development of a
new port tariff schedule) and in construction of some of the civil works.
4.    Cost estimates at appraisal were reasonable. The final cost was estimated at about
$69.5 million (or Y 175.2 million plus $47.7 million) against $77.5 million (or Y 174.6
million plus $45.0 million) at appraisal (para. 13). The difference, when expressed in US
dollars, is due to the devaluation of the local currency since the appraisal mission of
Spring 1991.
5.    The five project objectives were met. Further, GOC  and various local
governments and agencies have initiated laws and measures that will significantly extend
the scope of the project to include all marine coastal areas of China. The Government will
provide to the Bank information on project performance indicators to June 30, 2003.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Summary of Findings. Port and coastal environmental management is inherently
complex due to overlapping jurisdictions of different departments and ministries, port
authorities and private interests. While numerous agencies and ministries were involved
in the project, key leadership was provided by MOC, ensuring a national consistency and
providing a mechanism to utilize "model components" in other ports. Further, GOC has a
well-established base of environmental laws and agencies, with trained staff, to monitor
and enforce these laws permitting the project to build on a strong existing base of law.
7.    This project was the first major GEF project within the "Pollution Reduction in
International Waters" category. The China Ship Waste Disposal Project can be judged to
have clearly met GEF objectives, through reduction of pollution of international waters;
devising innovative and replicable systems for collection and disposal of ship wastes and
for the tracking of these wastes; designing mechanisms (policies and fee structures) to
ensure project sustainability; and providing resources to support increased pollution
monitoring to permit evaluation of actual systems created by the project, as well as its
impacts on regional seas, using the Yellow Sea as a model marine ecosystem.



- vi -
8.    The SAR provided an estimate of approximately 1.1 million tons of wastes that
would be treated per year rather than being discharged to international and Chinese
coastal waters. However, actual shipping traffic was much higher, so that an estimated 6.3
million tons of wastes will be diverted annually by 1998. Assuming a "working life" of
20 years for the treatment systems and no further increase from the 1996 traffic figures, at
least 126 million tons of wastes will not be dumped into the oceans (46 million tons of
oil-contaminated wastes, 76 million tons of sanitary sewage, and 20 million tons of
garbage).
9.    Future Operations. Implementation of project goals was extended by MOC,
resulting in further significant environmental benefits. The success in implementation of
an oil spill contingency and response plan in the six ports enabled development of a
generic plan, which was adopted by MOC and is being implemented in all other coastal
ports. Training has been extensive and a pilot oil spill response exercise in May 1996 was
so successful, MOC will be organizing an annual exercise in different ports. MOC is in
the process of obtaining approval to adopt a new environmental fee schedule for all ports,
which will ensure sustainability of the new treatment facilities and provide funds in other
ports to develop new or extend existing facilities.
10.   Performance indicators were developed and agreed to by MOC: (a) provision of
waste management data to 2003; (b) provision of information on the financial status and
records of the waste treatment facilities to 2003; and (c) provision of information on
future training programs.
11.   Success in implementation of the project has identified a new project, "Port and
Coastal Environmental Improvement," with five components: (a) investments in
additional oil spill response and cleanup equipment for the ports and coastal waters;
(b) investments in the State Oceanographic Administration to provide for improved
monitoring capabilities; (c) additional oil spill response training; (d) extension of
SEATRAC to other marine ports in China; and (e) investments in ship waste treatment
and reception facilities in the next 10 largest (defined by ship traffic) marine ports in
China.
12.   Key Lessons Learned. Success of the project can be attributed to both the
Borrower's and the Bank's approach to the project. The Bank utilized a multidisciplinary
team of an economic/financial analyst, a port engineer and a marine environmental
specialist. This provided a consistency throughout the project, from design and appraisal
to implementation. While 10 Chinese agencies and ministries were involved in the
project, key leadership was provided by MOC, ensuring a national consistency and
providing a mechanism to utilize "model components" in other ports. Further, GOC has a
well-established base of environmental laws and agencies, with trained staff, to monitor
and enforce these laws; i.e., the project could build on a strong existing base of law.
13.   Port and coastal environmental management is inherently complex due to
overlapping jurisdictions of different departments and ministries, port authorities and
private interests. If China did not already have a strong and existing regulatory base upon



- vii -
which the project could be constructed, coupled with good leadership from MOC, this
project would have been much more difficult to implement and would likely have
required more time. Replication of this project in other countries can be successful, if
there are established regulatory and management regimes suitable to the task.
Alternatively, such regimes should be first established and stabilized, followed by
construction of facilities and other components.
14.   Management of ships and port wastes is only one aspect of port and coastal
maritime environmental management. The success of a ship waste project can be further
enhanced by (a) adoption of an environmental coastal zone and port management plan (a
concept already be initiated by the Xiamen Special Economic Zone); (b) implementation
of other pollution control activities (e.g., oil spill response); and (c) control and
management of land-based sources of pollution.



- 1 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2391/TF. 28613-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Pollution of the marine environment can originate from several sources, including
dumping of wastes from ships at sea, nonpoint sources along a coast, river-borne
transport from inland sources and point sources represented by ports and coastal
communities. Such pollution degrades the marine environment by reducing the size and
quality of marine-harvestable resources, rendering harvestable resources inedible
(particularly shellfish) and degrading of recreational and tourist potential of coastal areas.
2.    Since marine pollution typically results from the actions of several countries,
regulation and reduction of such pollution has been best achieved through various
international conventions, such as the International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78). With reference to the discharge of wastes from
ships at sea, the Articles of this Convention detail the type of wastes to be regulated, the
scope and extent of wastes that can be discharged at sea, how wastes are to be treated
before discharge, allowable amounts that can be discharged and the requirement for
signatory countries to provide ship waste reception and treatment facilities in their ports.
Initially focused on oil-contaminated wastewaters (Annex 1), the Convention has been
extended to address chemically-contaminated wastes (Annexes 2 and 3), sanitary sewage
(Annex 4) and general garbage and solid wastes (Annex 5). At this time, Annexes 1, 2, 3
and 5 are in effect and final signatures for Annex 4 are pending.
3.    China, beginning in its Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated a policy to protect and
enhance its environment, both terrestrial and marine, while also ensuring economic
growth. This policy has been implemented through a series of laws and regulations and
through China becoming signatory to several international conventions, including
MARPOL 73/78. Over the past two decades, China has experienced very significant
economic growth, reflected by a sharp increase in marine commerce, both domestic and
international. For example, between 1991 and 1995, freight volume for all major coastal
ports grew by an average of 10.8 percent, with the international portion growing by an
average 20 percent per year. Recognizing the stresses resulting from increased
urbanization, industrialization and commercial traffic on its marine environment, the
Government of China directed its Port Authorities to develop plans to reduce port-related



- 2 -
pollution and to protect coastal resources. These plans were to address ship wastes, port-
related wastes, degradation of coastal water quality and the need for adequate oil spill
contingency and response plans.
4.    The considerable increase in marine commercial traffic within Chinese territorial
waters has been paralleled by an increase in the overall marine traffic of the East and
South China Seas responding to economic developments within Pacific Rim nations.
Thus marine pollution in Chinese territorial waters reflects both national and international
sources. To augment a credit from the World Bank Group being used to finance its
objectives of reducing national sources of marine pollution, China applied to GEF for
assistance to address wastes from international shipping.
5.    The Ship Waste Disposal Project, Credit 2391 (SDR 11 million/$15 million) and
GEF TF. 28613-CHA (SDR 22 million/$30 million), was approved on June 17, 1992 and
made effective on December 12, 1992. The goal was to reduce marine pollution, in both
the territorial waters of China and adjacent international waters, through implementation
of various measures related to port and shipping wastes. This was to be achieved through
five specific objectives:
(a)   To assist the Government of China in meeting its obligations as a
signatory to MARPOL 73/78, through construction of port facilities to
receive and treat/dispose of wastes from shipping.
(b)   To augment and extend the pollution monitoring capabilities of the
Ministry of Communications, the Ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai,
Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime Transportation
Administration and S-BOMTA.
(c)   To develop and implement oil spill contingency and response plans for the
Ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhoui Bureau
of Maritime Transportation Administration and S-BOMTA, and to
promote the implementation of similar plans throughout the coastal ports
of China.
(d)   To develop and implement a Ship Waste Tracking System (SEATRAC)
among the Ministry of Communications, the Ports of Dalian, Tianjin,
Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime
Transportation Administration and S-BOMTA.
(e)   To develop and implement a new port fee schedule that would provide
adequate capital repayment and maintenance operating funds for the
facilities.
6.    The project consisted of national and port-specific components, with an emphasis
on ensuring each aspect could serve as a model for implementation in other ports within
China.



- 3 -
(a)   National Component
(i)   Establishment of a data collection and reference system of ship
traffic to related waste types and quantities to facilitate monitoring
and regulatory enforcement;
(ii)   Preparation of a comprehensive oil spill contingency and response
plan for ports (Tier 1) in a "generic" format and to test the plan
through the development of individualized plans for each of the six
ports (including identification of selected equipment);
(iii)   Preparation of terms of reference for a multilateral study of a large
marine coastal ecosystem, using the Yellow Sea as the example
system;
(iv)    Development of a system  for the treatment of chemically
contaminated wastewaters as defined under MARPOL 73/8
Annexes 2 and 3;
(v)    Promotion of coordination among the various agencies to upgrade
and augment environmental monitoring capabilities within ports,
coastal waters and adjacent international waters;
(vi)   Preparation and implementation of a revised port tariff schedule to
enhance cost recovery of the use of ship waste facilities; and,
(vii)   Provision of technical services and training in connection with or
related to activities within the project.
(b)   Port Component
(i)    Design, construction and provision of appropriate waste reception,
treatment and disposal facilities in the Ports of Dalian, Tianjin,
Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou; and
(ii)    Augmentation of environmental monitoring and enforcement
capabilities in the Ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo and
Guangzhou; establishment of such capabilities in the Port of
Xiamen.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Implementation
7.    Project Coordination. The Bank project performance was enhanced through the
use of one project team from project identification/appraisal through to project
completion. Further, two of the Bank staff had considerable project experience working



- 4 -
closely with the six port authorities and MOC. The distribution of Bank resources is
provided in Tables 12 and 13 in Part II. During the project implementation, staff met at
least on an annual basis with the six port authorities and MOC, including site visits to the
reception facilities. To ensure coordination of activities among the Chinese agencies (i.e.,
Port Authorities, MOC, State Oceanic Administration, National Environmental
Protection Agency, Provincial Environmental Bureaus), coordinating tearns were
organized for each port.
8.    Training (Overseas and Domestic). While the six port authorities and M4OC had
staff with a large body of experience, the ability for staff to visit other major North
American and European ports to view handling and management of ship wastes was
considered highly advantageous. Further, training was required for environmental
monitoring staff with the introduction of new analytical testing and monitoring
equipment. MOC divided the training budget to provide approximately $150,000 for each
port authority and S-BOMTA for domestic (primarily training for analytical testing and
monitoring) and foreign (primarily training in operation of port waste systems and oil
spill response). This budget did not include training or technology transfer such as
occurred with the development of a generic oil spill contingency and response plan (in
conjunction with the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) or operator
training for SEATRAC.
9.    All of the port authorities found the training to be very helpful to the
implementation of the project. Further, undertaking training in various foreign centers has
also provided a linkage for the transfer of information at a future date. As there was a
commonality of monitoring and analytical testing equipment for the eight environmental
monitoring centers, it was possible to organize common training sessions in Beijing and
other cities. This had the side benefit of providing more interaction among the
environmental staff of the six ports.
Project Results
10.   National Component. Five studies were funded under this component, with
project administration by MOC. All five subcomponents were successfully completed and
all five offer significant potential contributions to other nations by way of model systems
of implementation or products.
(a)   Treatment of Chemically-Contaminated Wastewaters (contracted to
the Department of Environmental Engineering, Xi'an Transportation
University; value, $100,000). To meet the requirements of treating Annex
2 and 3 wastewaters, the Port Authorities required a system that was
robust and simple to operate but could deal with a variety of chemically-
contaminated wastewaters. A very detailed study was conducted in
1993-94, with an excellent report provided in 1994. The recommended
system was adopted by those ports constructing facilities for such
wastewaters.



- 5 -
(b)   Oil Spill Response and Contingency Plan Study (contracted to the
Beijing Academy of Transportation Sciences, with technical assistance
provided by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
project value, $290,000). This activity was to develop a "generic" Tier 1
plan (port-level spill), which was further refined for each of the six project
ports. The study was undertaken in 1994-95 with an excellent set of
reports provided in mid-1996. MOC accepted the study recommendation
and has adopted the plan for all ports in China. The study also included
several scoping workshops and was followed by a well-attended oil spill
response training exercise in May 1997 in Ningbo. The success of the
training exercise has led MOC to plan for annual exercises to be hosted by
different ports.
(c)   Cost Recovery and Port Fee Schedule Changes (contracted to the
Environmental Center of MOC, with technical assistance from Belgian
consultants; value, $100,000). The project was initiated in late 1995 and
finalized in early 1997. MOC accepted the study recommendation of a
unified national fee schedule, which represented costs of new and existing
waste reception facilities. While it was recognized the new fee schedule
may not provide sufficient funds for total cost recovery, it provides for a
reasonable coverage of expenses. Further, the new fee schedule will apply
to all ports, with funds in the other ports to be reserved for construction or
improvements to waste-handling facilities. The recommended fee schedule
is being reviewed by the State Planning Commission and Pricing Bureau,
although actual implementation will not be until 1998 at the earliest.
(d)   Ship Waste Tracking System (SEATRAC) (contracted to the China
Communication Planning and Design Institute for Marine Transportation
and Tianjin Research Institute for Waterway Engineering; value,
$100,000). The project was initiated in 1995 with final software
installation and staff training in early 1997. The objective was to provide a
database linking the six ports and MOC. The database provides (i) a means
of tracking wastes and ship traffic, (ii) an inventory of wastes processed by
type and location, and (iii) a database of environmental data generated by
the routine water and air quality monitoring programs. Under a separate
budget, computer hardware and printers were purchased for each of the
Port Authorities, Harbor Superintendency Administration offices and
MOC. If translated into other languages, the software has an excellent
commercial potential.
(e)   Large Marine Ecosystem  (LME) Multilateral Study. One of the
difficulties in assessing and monitoring coastal waters is the need for an
adequate baseline of conditions for areas, which may include territorial
waters of more than one country and associated international waters. Using
the Yellow Sea as a model regional sea, an LME study was financed
through GEF and other funding arrangements, with the partnership



- 6 -
consisting of China, People's Democratic Republic of Korea (PDRK) and
the Republic of Korea (ROK). Although the PDRK subsequently did not
participate, China and ROK conducted several study preparation
workshops through 1993 with a submission to the Ministry of Fiinance for
project approval in January 1994. Further workshops and meetings were
held, culminating in a submission to be made, through the United Nations
Development Program to the GEF, in June 1997.
Port Component
11.   Beginning in 1993 the six port authorities initiated planning and construction of
civil works for their waste reception and treatment facilities. With the exception of
Guangzhou Port Authority, the facilities were substantially completed by early 1996. The
Shanghai component was divided into two parts under the responsibility of Shanghai Port
Authority with the Port Authority responsible primarily for garbage collection and
treatment and the S-BOMTA  responsible for treatment of oil and chemically
contaminated wastewaters and oil spill response. This division reflected past practices in
the Port and that much of the bulk liquid cargoes were carried in S-BOMTA ships.
Delays due to local financing in Guangzhou were overcome in 1995-96, vvith their
facilities being completed in early 1997. In contrast to Shanghai, both G-BOMTA and the
Guangzhou Port Authority operate oil product terminals. The extensive traffic and
geographical distribution of the port facilities necessitated the construction of two
wastewater treatment facilities. The facility owned by G-BOMTA was not financed under
this project.
12.   All projects under the Port Component have been successfully completed and are
or have been fully commissioned.
(a)   Shanghai Port Authority (SPA). Under this project, SPA constructed a
new waste facility in Pudong for wastewaters from SPA ships and garbage
from all shipping. The facility combines units for treatment. of oil-
contaminated wastewater (capacity of 30,000 tons/year); garbage handling
and incineration (2 tons/day) and wharf berthing for three 500-ton capacity
garbage collection barges. All monitoring equipment and the monitoring
van have been delivered and are now in use. The new Pudong facility also
includes a new operations building that will also house a portion of the
Environmental Monitoring Center, now located in older premises near
Terminal 2 in central Shanghai. SPA has a detailed program of monitoring
for air and water quality throughout the harbor area and at the separate
terminal facilities.
(b)   Shanghai Bureau  of Maritime  Transportation  Administration
(S-BOMTA). Under this project, S-BOMTA constructed a new facility
near the Waigaoqiao Terminal in Pudong to receive and process oil-
contaminated (capacity of 400,000 tons/year) and chemically-
contaminated (capacity of 100,000 tons/year) wastewaters from their



-7 -
extensive fleet and other shipping. Located on the south side of the
Yangtze River, the facility provides ready access to all shipping both
entering the Port of Shanghai and proceeding up the Yangtze River. As
part of this project, S-BOMTA purchased 600 meters (m) of oil boom to
add to their existing 600 m of equipment. An extensive monitoring and
effluent testing laboratory has been set up as part of the new facility.
(c)   Ningbo Port Authority (NPA). Under this project, NPA constructed
waste-handling facilities at their Beilun and Zhenhai Terminals. At Beilun,
the facility can process oil-contaminated wastewater (capacity of 30,000
tons/year). In addition, NPA refurbished the iron ore wastewater treatment
facility, generating treated water for reuse as a dust suppressant in the ore
concentrate storage area, thus saving about Y 400,000 per year. At
Zhenhai, the facility can process oil-contaminated wastewater (capacity of
30,000 tons/year) and process about 200 kilograms (kg)/hour of garbage in
a new dual incinerator facility. The reception area also provides berthing
for a new 50 cubic meter (m3) garbage collection barge served by two new
garbage collection trucks. As the berthing facilities are geographically
distributed and include an offshore deep-water anchorage, NPA purchased
two vessels related to oil spill response: (i) 500-ton waste capacity
collection vessel and (ii) an oil spill response emergency command vessel.
NPA routinely uses the 2,000 m oil spill containment boom purchased
under this project to surround vessels being off-loaded at the Beilun
Marine Oil Terminal. In addition, NPA also purchased an additional
2,000 m of containment boom also being used at the Beilun Marine Oil
Terminal. All monitoring equipment and a van have been delivered and
are now in use.
(d)   Dalian Port Authority (DPA). DPA has renovated and upgraded waste
reception and treatment facilities (investments of $740,000) for oil-
contaminated wastewater at Siergou Terminal (capacity of 1.2 million
tons/year, mostly from refined product cargoes) and at the New Harbor Oil
Terminal (capacity of 1 million tons/year, mostly from crude product
cargoes and about 600,000 tons from refined product cargoes). Project
funds were used to refurbish the chemically-contaminated wastewater
treatment system at Siergou (capacity of 100,000 tons/year) and a sanitary
sewage wastewater treatment plant at the Xianglujiao Terminal. Through
funding from this project, DPA has purchased 2,000 m of oil containment
boom (investment of $120,000) to augment an existing 3,000 m. The
booms are routinely used to enclose vessels being off-loaded at both the
Siergou and New Harbor Terminals. All monitoring equipment and a
laboratory vehicle have been delivered and are now in use (investment of
$300,000). While monitoring equipment augmented existing capabilities,
DPA is planning to renovate its Environmental Monitoring Center,



- 8 -
including provision of additional support infrastructure (e.g., fune hoods,
etc.).
(e)   Tianjin Port Authority (TPA). Under this project, TPA upgraded an oil-
contaminated wastewater treatment facility at the Tianjin Oil Bunkering
Company (Beijiang) and constructed a new wastewater reception and
treatment facility in the Nanjiang area. The Beijiang facility (investment of
Y 1.5 million and $429,000) improvements provided for two storage tanks
of 4,000 m3 and associated piping to augment existing berthing facilities.
The Nanjiang land-based facility has a capacity of 200 tons/hour and a
holding capacity of 4,000 mi3; the multiwaste vessel has a holding capacity
of 160 m3 and an on-board processing capacity of 10 tons/hour
(investment of Y 33.82 million and $881,000). The Nanjiang facility
includes a chemically-contaminated wastewater treatment system (100 m3
at any one time, with storage in three holding tanks and a processing
capacity of 8 m3 per hour (completion expected by January 1998;
investment of Y 12.23 million and $580,000). The Nanjiang facility also
includes a sanitary sewage wastewater treatment component (capacity of
600 tons/day). Under this project, TPA purchased five garbage transfer
trucks and constructed a waste incinerator in the Beijiang area, with a
capacity of 300 kg/hr (investment of Y 6 million and $183,000 plus
$143,000 for the trucks). TPA also purchased two roadway sweep and two
water spray vehicles to remove coal dust and clean roadways within the
port area (investment of $271,000). As part of this project, TPA purchased
2,600 m of oil containment boom (investment of $249,000), two oil
skimmer units, 8 special oil mops, 1 surface concentration net, 1 ton of oil-
absorbent material and 1.5 tons of oil-dispersant chemical. All monitoring
equipment and a laboratory vehicle have been delivered and are now in
use. TPA initiated a cooperation agreement with the Department of
Environmental Studies of Tianjin Nankai University, in which senior
graduate students and research fellows use the new port testing equipment,
while assisting in the training of port staff and developing new testing
protocols.
(f)   Xiamen  Port Authority  (XPA). As the  harbor facilities  are
geographically distributed, XPA, under this project, purchased a new
environmental protection services vessel (capacity of 90 mi3 of oil-
contaminated wastewater with processing of 2x10 tons/hour). In addition,
the vessel is equipped with various oil spill response equipment and can
act as a spill response vessel as required. This vessel is routinely berthed at
2
a new 132 m wharf, with a new 262 m storage warehouse (investment of
$2.21 million for the vessel, Y 4 million for the terminal and warehouse
and Y 680,000 for related design work). XPA constructed a new
secondary treatment sanitary sewage wastewater facility at the Dongdu II
Terminal area (investment of Y 850,000 for civil works and $570,800 for



-9 -
equipment). XPA is completing construction of a new incinerator facility
at the old Coal Terminal, with a capacity of 200 kg/hr. Garbage and
sanitary sewage will be collected using a new barge with a holding
capacity of 20 tons of garbage and 80 tons of sewage water (investment of
$175,871 for equipment, Y 400,000 for civil works and approximately
Y 1,534,479 for the garbage/sanitary sewage collection barge). Under this
project, XPA purchased 1,000 m of containment boom (investment of
$92,364) and will be purchasing an additional 1,000 m (investment of
$60,000). XPA also purchased oil response equipment, including oil
skimmer and oil absorbent material (investment of $152,365 for the boom
and approximately $200,000 for other related equipment).
Under this project, XPA initiated an Environmental Bureau. This effort
included (i) a contract to a consultant to provide organizational, general
operating and training plans (investment of $30,000); (ii) renovations to an
existing structure to house the Environmental Monitoring Center
(investment of Y 500,000); and (iii) purchase of monitoring equipment
and a laboratory vehicle (investment of $482,340). XPA also intends to
make a further investment to purchase additional air quality monitoring
equipment.
(g)   Guangzhou Port Authority (GPA). Under this project, GPA constructed
a new treatment facility adjacent to their XiJi Oil Terminal. The oil-
contaminated wastewater component has a capacity of 500 tons/day.
Alternatively, wastes can be collected by a wastewater reception ship
(capacity of 420 tons of oil-contaminated and 100 tons of sanitary sewage
wastewater; investment of $813,200) and brought to the Terminal. The
treatment facility also has the capability of processing sanitary sewage
(investment of $813,200). Total investment is Y 15.61 million for civil
works (also includes a laboratory/dormitory building) and $2.514 million
for equipment. GPA is completing a chemically-contaminated wastewater
treatment system at the DanShuiHe Dangerous Goods Terminal
(investment of Y 3.972 million for civil works; Y 1.08 million and
$633,000 for equipment). This facility will also have components to
process sanitary sewage from the port facilities at a rate of 100 tons/day.
GPA constructed a new waste incinerator (capacity of 2.4 tons/day;
investment of Y 880,000 (for civil works) and $279,000 (for equipment).
Under this project, GPA purchased 2,500 m of oil-containment boom
(investment of $150,000). Sections of the boom are routinely used to
surround vessels being off-loaded at the XiJi Oil Terminal. As part of this
project, GPA purchased an oil spill recovery vessel (investment of
$808,835) and an oil boom deployment vessel (investment of $484,620).
In addition, GPA has invested about Y 300,000 to purchase other spill
response equipment, such as oil skimmers, oil-absorbent material and
dispersant chemical. All monitoring equipment and a laboratory vehicle



- 10-
(representing a total investment of $551,141) have been delivered and are
now in use. GPA has invested about Y 325,000 in additional laboratory
equipment and Y 1 million in building renovations for the monitoring
center.
(h)   MOC  Environmental Monitoring Center. As part of the Harbor
Superintendency Administration, MOC operates an Environmental
Monitoring Center in Beijing. The purpose is to undertake research on
methods of monitoring and analytical testing, conduct some monitoring
either as part of broader national objectives or to assist smaller Port
Authorities and to provide technical input to policy decision-making
within MOC. An investment of $1.77 million was made to upgrade the
analytical testing capability of the Center and to finance the purchase of all
(MOC and Port Authority) computer hardware to be used in the ship waste
tracking component.
Financial Performance
13.   Cost estimates at appraisal were reasonable. Final project costs were estimated at
about $69.5 million (or Y 175.2 million plus $47.7 million) against $77.5 million (or
Y 174.6 million plus $45.0 million) estimated at appraisal (Table 8a). The difference
when expressed in US dollars is due to the devaluation of the local currency since the
1991 appraisal (Y 1.0=$1/5.32 in 1991; Y 1.0=$1/8.30 at completion or Y 1.0=$1/7.962
overall average).
14.   During implementation of the project, two major changes occurred that affect the
financial condition and reporting procedures of the six ports:
(a)   Revaluation of Fixed Assets. The revaluation of port assets was
conducted between 1992 and 1995, the first in over 40 years. This resulted
in an increase in the value of fixed assets and related depreciation. While
the short-term effect was a dilution of the reported profitability and
financial rate of return, in the long term, the revaluation will allow each
port authority to reserve a proper depreciation account (based on the new
higher value) to replace aging facilities, without jeopardizing the port
financial capacity.
(b)   New Financial Reporting Procedures. Under instructions from the
Ministry of Finance, the six ports changed their financial accounting
procedures in July 1993 to be consistent with international accounting
standards. The new accounting and financial reporting system will
accelerate the potential for commercialization and privatization of the port.
15.   The general financial condition of the six ports is good and they will continue to
earn surpluses, despite some short-term sudden increases in operating costs due to causes
beyond their control (e.g., Port of Guangzhou). During the project implementation,



- 11 -
between December 1994 and June 1996, the Bank also completed six ICRs for the six
ports under different projects. Besides the need for continued capital investments for
general port construction, the port authorities were also able to provide sufficient funds to
support the capital investment of the Ship Waste Disposal Project largely through
internally-generated cash derived from operating revenues (Tables la-6a).
16.   The current financial strength of the six ports is superior to the original staff
appraisal report (SAR) estimates. The conservative financial forecasts were developed in
the SAR during a period when China was hit by severe economic recession in the early
1990s. The recovery, beginning in the spring of 1994, was rapid and was reflected in a
higher demand for freight transport, both in domestic and foreign trades. Between 1991
and 1995, for example, the freight volume for all major coastal ports grew an average of
10.8 percent per year, of which, the international freight grew by average of 20 percent
per year.
17.   High transport demand resulted in a fast growth of operating revenues. The flow
of funds for all the six ports is much larger than the original estimates, with increases of
125 to 441 percent. This provides for a greatly strengthened financial position for the six
ports and better than projected. The detailed annual funds flow is provided for each port
in Tables lb-6b and summarized, in comparison to the SAR estimates as follows:
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT SUMMARY (CLOSING BALANCE)-1995 La
(Y million, Consolidated)
Shanghai                          Guangzhou
Dalian  Tianjin   Port  BOMTA  Subtotal  Ningbo  Xiamen  (Huangpu)
ICR actual (1)    254.7   547.0  636.1  1,002.7  1,638.8   310.2   345.7        164.7
SAR estimate (2)   76.5    101.1  282.7      n.a.     n.a.    93.8    75.1       73.0
Increase (1)/(2)  233%   +441%  +125%        n.a.     n.a.  +231%   +360%     +126%
n.a. = not available.
da The latest year available in the SAR.



- 12-
18.   Based on the current operations scale of the six ports, the Port Authorities should
not experience difficulties in maintaining the new waste reception and treatment facilities
in the future. Further, the total capital investment of the Ship Waste Disposal Project
contributes only a very marginal component of total net fixed assets (overall average of
2.1 percent, ranging from 0.6 percent (Dalian) to 5.3 percent (Xiamen). Details are
provided in Tables lc-6c and summarized as follows:
CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND NET FIXED ASSETS-1996
(Y million, Consolidated)
Total Investment of Net Fixed Assets of   Ratio
the Project       the Port
(1)               (2)             (3=1/2)
Dalian                         28.4            4,749.7             0.6%
Tianjin                       111.7            3,872.7             3.0%
Shanghai:
Port                          70.0            4,216.5             1.7%
BOMTA                        189.4           10,301.5             1.8%/o
Subtotal                   259.4           14,518.0             1.8%
Ningbo                         57.2            1,447.6             4.0%
Xiamen                         43.7             827.5              5.3%
Guangzhou (Huangpu)            88.6            2,622.3             3.4%
Total                       589.0          27,947.8             2.1%
19.   To ensure the long-term financial viability of these facilities, a study to review
port tariffs and waste facility operating costs formed a component of the project and was
completed by MOC, with assistance from consultants. The study recommended
institution of a unified set of port fees, to be applied to all ports in China with the
concepts of "full recovery of costs" and "pay whether used or not." MOC has accepted
this recommendation and will provide a proposal to the State Planning Commission for
approval for the new tariff schedule.
20.   While implementation of a new waste reception fee is desirable, the financial
impact of not having a new schedule would be minimal, as existing subsidization by the
ports constitutes only a small fraction of the port fund flow. Based on the actual 1996
record, the amount of subsidies from the six ports is typically less than 1 percent of their
fund flow; e.g., for the Port of Guangzhou, the annual subsidy constitutes only 0.04
percent of its fund flow. This low ratio indicates the project presents a low financial risk
based on lack of resources to support the future operations of the project facilities.
Summarized as follows:



- 13 -
SHIP WASTE COST, REVENUE AND FUNDS FLow-1996
(Y million)
Shanghai                     Guangzhou
Dalian Tianjin  Port BOMTA Subtotal Ningbo Xiamen (Huangpu)
Total cost              1.6   2.0  2.57    9.10   11.67   0.70    0.20      0.66
Total revenue           0.8     -   0.47    5.70    6.17   0.14     -       0.57
Subsidies (1)          0.8   2.0  2.10    3.40    5.50   0.56    0.20       0.09
Fund flow of the port (2)   496.2  403.7  741.7   608.3  1,350.0  578.0  357.4  256.8
Ratios (1)1(2)       0.16%  0.50%  0.28%   0.56%   0.41%  0.10%   0.06%   0.04%
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   The project included several elements to be implemented directly through MOC
(National Components) and through six ports (Port Components). This made for a
complex and difficult-to-implement project. Several major factors affected the project,
having both positive and negative influences.
(a)    Positive influencing factors were numerous:
(i)    GOC  already had an established regulatory regime. Their
environmental structure, first enunciated with the Sixth Five-Year
Plan in 1981, now includes a broad set of laws and regulations at
the State, Provincial and Municipal levels. Further, this policy
approach was adopted by enterprises, such as Port Authorities.
Thus the Borrower had in place a strong supportive administrative
mechanism to ensure implementation success.
(ii)    To be able to implement all provisions of MARPOL 73/78, both
current and future proposed, GOC recognized the need for
additional facilities for waste treatment and reception. Further,
GOC also recognized the need for research and development to
provide for adequate treatment of chemically-contaminated
wastewaters and cargoes to meet changes in their industrial base.
Thus the Borrower had begun to develop supportive plans for this
project.
(iii)    While somewhat limited in capability or undersized to meet current
and future demands, the six ports, with the exception of Xiamen,
already had waste reception and treatment facilities and
Environmental Monitoring Centers. Thus the project was based on
existing infrastructure operating with trained personnel.



- 14-
(iv)    While GOC recognized the benefits to their own territorial waters,
extensive benefits to the environmental quality of international
waters would also result from implementation of the project.
Provision  of  supporting  funds  through  GEF  ensured
implementation of the project as a whole and, in particular,
components other than the basic waste treatment and reception
facilities. These included development of SEATRAC, purchase of
environmental monitoring equipment, development of oil spill
contingency and response plans and training.
(v)    Through provision of loans to the six port authorities, the Bank had
established a long and fruitful working relationship with the
Ministry of Communications and the six port authorities. This
established relationship ensured a deep degree of trust and
confidence on both sides, which while not critical to success,
certainly made project implementation smoother.
(b)   There were also some negative factors:
(i)   All aspects of maritime commerce within  China require
considerable investments to meet traffic demands set by the
continuing economic growth, both within and external to the
country. This competition for funds within each Port Authority
made investments in "environmental improvements" difficult to
promote.
(ii)    While the Port Authorities had responsibility to provide waste
reception facilities, much of the regulatory authority is vested in
the Harbor Superintendency Administration. Port Authorities are
partially under MOC and partially a component of mnunicipal
governments, while the Harbor Superintendency is totally within
MOC. Thus regulatory decisions are divided and organizational
linkages, confused.
(iii)    Where the Port Authorities had an existing foundation of reception
facilities and environmental monitoring centers, the planning and
construction of additional facilities was readily accommodated. In
some ports, the project placed heavy demands on port staff,
resulting in slower implementation of the project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The project was financed through a loan from the World Bank to the Government
of China (Credit 2391 for $15 million) augmented by a grant obtained from GEF (GEF
TF. 28613-CHA for $30 million) and administered by the World Bank. This combination
of financing recognized the national and international benefits of the project



- 15 -
implementation. Although the existing port revenues are adequate for both repayment of
the credit and maintenance of the new infrastructure, MOC is finalizing approval for
implementation of a new Port Tariff Schedule. Approval and adoption of this new
schedule will further ensure project sustainability and place most reception facilities on a
"user-pay" basis. Some facilities will still not be fully "user-pay" due to high local costs
(e.g., electricity), the need for a nationally standardized tariff schedule for all ports to
ensure continued competitiveness and the provision of a full suite of reception facilities
although the demand for all facilities is not required at this time.
23.   Repayment of the credit onlending will be made from general revenues of each of
the six ports. The current financial strength of the six ports has considerably improved
over the 1991 staff appraisal report estimates. During the implementation period of the
project, the freight volume for all major coastal ports grew an average of 10.8 percent per
year, with the international component growing by an average 20 percent per year. High
transport demand resulted in a fast growth of operating revenues, providing a greatly
strengthened financial position for the six ports. This strengthened position means there is
adequate financing available, based on the continued use of the existing Port Tariff
Schedule.
24.   By way of comparison, current treatment unit costs for oil-contaminated
wastewater ranged from Y 12.17 to Y 18.83/ton; for chemically-contaminated
wastewater, from Y 35.98 to Y 36.62/ton; for sanitary sewage, from Y 6.30 to
Y 16.13/ton; and for garbage, from Y 305.40 to Y 321.85/visit. The Ministry of
Communications, in consultation with the six port authorities and other port authorities
and users, has developed a new tariff schedule that will ensure adequate financing for
both the repayment of the loan and an adequate maintenance fund. Further, adoption of
the new tariff schedule, nationwide, will generate funds in other ports for construction of
new or additional ship waste reception facilities or renovation of existing facilities. The
proposed unified tariff schedule is provided in the following table:
Average Unit Operational Proposed Unified
Costs (Y/ton)     Tariff (Y/ton)
Oil-contaminated wastewater treated in land-based facility  15.00        15.75
Oil-contaminated wastewater treated by ship           49.04              51.50
Sanitary sewage treatment                             10.55              11.10
Chemically-contaminated wastewater treatment          36.52              38.30
Garbage reception                                 317.35/ship visit    333.20/ship visit
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   The Bank identified key issues and prepared the project in a timely fashion. The
project was identified in November 1990 and appraised in March/April 1991, with the
staff appraisal report issued in November 1991. The loan was approved on June 17, 1992



- 16-
and made effective on December 12, 1992. Bank supervision was also efficient. The
annual average input of staff resources for supervision was 11.2 staff-weeks, which
included various specialties (see Tables 12 and 13). This was possible because
supervision of six Bank-financed port projects was coordinated with supervision of this
project.
26.   Bank performance was enhanced by use throughout the project of the same team,
consisting of an economic/financial analyst, a port engineer (as task manager) and a
marine environmental specialist. This provided an element of consistency of approach to
the issue and an assurance the project design would be successfully implemented.
Further, team members had worked with the six port authorities on other port-related
projects and thus had established a successful working relationship.
27.   The project implementation was supervised on a regular site-visit basis with
supervision staff including the three key project staff. Some of the supervision missions
were undertaken solely for this project; others were undertaken in conjunction with other
supervision projects to the ports.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   With the exception of the Port of Guangzhou, Borrower implementation of the
Port Component of the project was excellent and timely. During 1994 and early 1995, the
Port Authorities focused on facility design, equipment procurement and training. Most
civil works were well into construction by the May 1995 implementation supervision
mission and were essentially complete by the May 1996 mission. The Port of Guangzhou
experienced some delays due to availability of local financing, but had managed to
complete construction and begin commissioning during the supervision mission of May
1997.
29.   With respect to equipment procurement for the waste facilities and vessels, the
Borrower was able to obtain excellent price quotations through competitive bidding. With
respect to monitoring equipment, MOC worked with the environmental sections of the
Port Authorities to maximize purchasing power through consolidated bid packages. This
format generated both competitive prices and provided a commonality of equipment base.
The commonality also provided for savings through joint training programs and will
provide future savings through joint procurement of spare parts. In response to increased
estimates of ship wastes, the Borrower provided timely proposals to use the remaining
grant/credit to procure additional treatment capability, equipment or spare parts.
30.   Borrower performance with respect to the National Component, primarily the
development and implementation of policy, was slower. Delays can be partially attributed
to a change in staff within MOC and partially to an underestimation of difficulties in
completion of some tasks, such as development and implementation of the SEATRAC
software and development of a new Port Tariff Schedule. The one-year extension of the
Project Closing Date to June 30, 1997 permitted these components to be fully completed,



- 17-
although the State Planning Commission and other agencies must still approve formal
adoption of the new tariff schedule.
31.   One of the key objectives of the project was to use successful application of
various aspects as a model for other ports within China. This objective was met and
exceeded. The proposed oil spill contingency and response plan has been made the
designated national model and is being introduced in other ports. The new Port Tariff
Schedule is to be adopted by all ports, thereby providing a means of financing ship waste
reception and treatment/disposal facilities in other ports, which primarily serve domestic
marine commercial traffic. Further, the successful development and implementation of
the project components, both National and Port, provide a model for other countries to
use as part of their efforts to manage and reduce ship and port wastes. As shown in Table
10, Part II, covenants were generally met. The Borrower's performance is evaluated as
very good.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   Benefits. China has some 30 major ports, with freight traffic handled by the six
ports constituting 53.2 percent of total foreign-going or 55.0 percent of the total national
volume. One of the criteria for support of investments by GEF is a positive
"environmental rate of return." With implementation of the Ship Waste Disposal Project,
the SAR provided an estimate of approximately 1.1 million tons of wastes that would be
treated per year rather than being discharged to international and Chinese coastal waters
(311,500 tons of oil-contaminated wastes, 750,405 tons of sanitary sewage, and 30,016
tons of garbage). Successful completion of the project will not only prevent dumping of
wastes as estimated in the SAR, but will also address the higher loading of wastes related
to higher shipping traffic and economic activity. Using volume estimates provided in the
SAR and ship traffic for 1990-96, for example, the average annual growth rate was 33.8
percent (Table 7). Thus, projected waste loadings were also underestimated. With the
revised traffic figures, an estimated 6.3 million tons of wastes will be diverted (2,320,662
tons of oil-contaminated wastes, 3,800,236 tons of sanitary sewage, and 1,013,394 tons of
garbage). Assuming a "working life" of 20 years for the treatment systems and no further
increase from the 1996 traffic figures, at least 126 million tons of wastes will not be
dumped into the oceans (46 million tons of oil-contaminated wastes, 76 million tons of
sanitary sewage, and 20 million tons of garbage).
33.   The project provides significant, although not quantified, economic benefits
through provision of environmental benefits. While forrnal economic return analysis
(environmental economic benefit) has not been attempted for the SAR and the ICR, it is
widely recognized that pollution impacts on all aspects of the marine economy from the
fishery to recreation. Maintenance of and improvements to the existing coastal marine
environmental quality are necessary for the continued success of the coastal fishery, a
major industry to China and neighboring countries. Further, methods and protocols
providing improvements to marine environment quality, as achieved by the project, will
serve as a model for establishing similar facilities in other Chinese ports.



- 18 -
34.   Two other environmental benefits were achieved by the project. An objective was
the development of a "generic" oil spill contingency and response plan and a
"groundtruthing" of this plan using the six project ports. The success in meeting this
objective led MOC to implement the plan on a nationwide basis for all ports. Further,
MOC and the six project Ports held a national oil spill response exercise in Ningbo in
May 1997. The evident success of this exercise (about 100 interested parties attended
compared to 50 expected) will shift the program to an annual series, thereby further
enhancing the skill set of Port Authority staff to respond to oil spills.
35.   Project implementation in the six ports has resulted in the Port Authorities being
considered leaders with respect to coastal zone and environmental management. For
example, the City of Xiamen has drawn upon the Xiamen Port Authority's experiences
with this project in their new Coastal Zone Management Law. Successful project
implementation in China also serves as a model for other nations along the major
shipping routes of the East and South China Seas. Concepts and approaches developed in
this project are being utilized by the Bank to develop maritime environmental projects in
the Philippines and Indonesia.
36.   Costs and Negative Impacts. A major concern expressed by the six ports and
GOC was the impact of project implementation on price competitiveness, particularly
with adoption of a new tariff schedule. The project has developed and MOC has
recommended to GOC adoption of a uniform nationwide tariff schedule that will provide
adequate financing to cover the capital and maintenance cost of the reception facilities,
while ensuring no port within China suffers a financial disadvantage. Provision of the
facilities also enables China to meet broader regional goals of reducing marine pollution
within the context of sustainable development and good environmental stewardship.
37.   The focus of this project has been on wastes originating from foreign and larger
domestic shipping in six coastal ports. As much of the current Chinese shipping is via
small coastal and inland waterway vessels, a considerable portion of wastes is still not
being addressed. Success in implementation of the project over the next five years will
provide MOC with further support to implement the project in other ports and to address
all domestic shipping. Some policy change has already occurred; e.g., as part of the Inland
Waterway Project (Loan 39106-CHA) and the proposed Second Inland Waterways
Project, the Bank has persuaded GOC to address ship wastes generated by the very
extensive inland fleet. The resultant decrease in pollution of waterways and rivers
discharging to the coastal waters will also provide an environmental benefit. MOC has
indicated environmental improvements to the coastal and inland shipping fleets will be
implemented over the next five years.
38.   The sheer size and complexity of the maritime transportation industry within
China makes successful implementation and continued derivation of benefits in the long
term difficult. MOC will continue to have to devote considerable manpower and financial
resources to fulfilling its role within the Chinese government policy of protecting the
marine environment.



- 19-
H. FUTURE OPERATION
39.   Under this project, MOC and the six Port Authorities have provided considerable
training for staff, both in China and overseas, where training consisted of formal courses
offered by training institutes or equipment suppliers, as well as extensive tours of foreign
port facilities and operations. In 1996, using some of the designated training funds,
supplemented by local funds, the Environment Monitoring Center (EMC) of MOC
organized an oil spill training exercise with the Ningbo Port Authority as host. Initially
planned for 50 participants, the exercise was considered very successful in attracting over
100 participants for a five-day program, both classroom and field. Workshop staff
included both MOC experts who had developed the National Oil Spill Response Plan and
other Chinese experts from both the government and industry. The success of this
training exercise has led MOC to plan similar exercises in different ports on an annual
basis.
40.   Financial sustainability of project was a key component in ensuring the full
participation of the Port Authorities. Based on an assessment of the cost structures for
existing ship waste reception and treatment facilities, MOC has developed a new port
environmental fees schedule. This has been approved internally and submitted to the
State Planning Commission and Pricing Bureau for final approval and implementation.
This fee schedule will ensure the project facilities can be repaid, operated and maintained
on an essentially self-sustaining basis. Further, MOC has implemented a policy to extend
the new fee schedule to all ports, with other ports devoting the collected fees to a fund for
the provision of new treatment facilities or upgrading of existing facilities.
41.   The Project developed several outputs that were adopted by MOC  for
implementation in all marine ports, not just the six Port Authorities involved in this
Project. These outputs include: (a) generic oil spill contingency and response plan;
(b) port environmental fee schedule; (c) strengthened environmental monitoring systems
for ports (through the MOC-EMC); and (d) oil spill response exercises. While the waste
tracking system, SEATRAC, is now being actively used in the six ports, other ports are
evaluating the system for implementation over the next five years.
42.   Performance indicators were developed during implementation of the project and
have been agreed with MOC and the six Port Authorities. These indicators are:
(a) provision of data from SEATRAC and routine waste data records for the next six
years. This will permit assessment of quantities received and treated thereby defining the
quantities not disposed into the marine environment (both territorial and international
waters); (b) provision of financial records for the ship waste disposal facilities. This will
permit assessment of sustainability of treatment facilities and implications of fee
implementation on port operations; (c) provision of information on future training and
spill response exercises. This will permit assessment of how Port Authorities are
maintaining the quality of their staff.



- 20 -
43.   During appraisal for this project, MOC and the six Port Authorities wanted to also
include considerable investments in oil spill response and cleanup equipment. While
some equipment and ships were purchased under this project, the appraisal team
recommended and MOC agreed that development of response plans, training of staff and
assessment of needs should be undertaken first. During the project, these goals were met.
The environmental benefits of this project should be extended through a new project, Port
and Coastal Environmental Improvement, which would address five components:
(a) investments in additional oil spill response and cleanup equipment for the ports (Tier
1) and coastal waters (Tier 2); (b) investments in the State Oceanographic Administration
to provide for improved monitoring capabilities in outer territorial and international
waters through the Yellow, East China and South China Seas; (c) additional training for
both management of oil spill response and implementation of oil spill response;
(d) investments in hardware and training to permit extension of SEATRAC to other
marine ports in China; and (e) investments in ship waste treatment and reception facilities
in the next 10 largest (defined by ship traffic) marine ports in China.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.   This project was partially funded by a grant from GEF and was the first major
Fund project within the "Pollution Reduction in International Waters" category. The
China Ship Waste Disposal Project can be judged to have clearly met GEF criteria.
45.   In 1991, pollution levels and sources of pollution in Chinese territorial and
adjacent international waters, were poorly defined or could not be adequately quantified.
In the absence of other methodology, the project appraisal team calculated the GEF
contribution to the project on the basis of foreign-going and domestic ship traffic at the
six ports in China that served most of the foreign-going traffic. Although approximately
one third of the traffic was foreign-flag, vessels in the six ports used territorial and
international waters about equally. Thus it was agreed that China should contribute at
least 50 percent of total project costs, representing the estimated "national baseline". The
ship waste tracking system put in place under the project would then verify actual waste
generation, permitting an ex-post assessment of sources of waste (national versus
international). In retrospect, if we assume, based on the shipping pattern and practices,
that (a) ocean going vessels stay 15 percent in domestic water and 85 percent in
international water, and (b) coastal vessels 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, and
we estimate ship waste quantities following the formula provided in the same formula
provided in the SAR, ship waste quantities in domestic and international waters in 1990
and 1996 are estimated as follows:
(a)   In 1990, ship waste generated by ocean going and coastal vessels was
estimated at 355,400 tons and 736,600 tons, respectively, and ship waste
generated in domestic and international waters at 568,900 tons (52 percent
of the total) and 523,100 tons (48 percent of the total), respectively; and



- 21 -
(b)   in 1996, ship waste was generated by ocean going and coastal vessels was
estimated 621,700 tons and 1,240,900 tons, respectively, and ship waste
generated in domestic and international waters at 961,900 tons (52 percent
of the total) and 900,700 tons (48 percent of the total), respectively.
Thus, it was considered appropriate that GEF provided about 46 percent of the total
project cost.
46.   Diversion quantities and associated environmental benefits will be quantified and
collated using a multiport ship waste tracking computer database and supplemented by
additional monitoring facilities and capabilities acquired through this project. This will
permit an ex-post assessment of sources of wastes (national or international).
47.   The project has proven to have a high demonstration value. Through enhancing
and upgrading national standards, policies and waste monitoring and construction of
additional waste reception and handling facilities, the project has convinced GOC of the
"environmental benefit" of the investments. This has triggered adoption of a multiport
ship waste tracking system, port oil spill contingency and response plan for all Chinese
ports and holding of oil spill response training exercises to train all ports and other
agencies. Further, the ship waste tracking system is truly unique and, with translation into
other languages, could provide a revenue-generating component.
48.   With approval of a proposed new port tariff fees schedule, the project will also
meet the GEF criterion of ensuring project sustainability, not only for credit repayment,
but also for system maintenance. Further, GOC will be implementing this fee schedule on
a national basis, providing a reserve fund in other ports for refurbishing or expanding
existing facilities or constructing new facilities.
49.   Success of the project can be attributed to both the Borrower's and the Bank's
approach to the project. The Bank utilized a multidisciplinary team of an economic/
financial analysts, a port engineer and a marine environmental specialist. This provided a
consistency throughout, from design and appraisal to implementation. While 10 Chinese
agencies and ministries were involved in the project, key leadership was provided by
MOC, ensuring a national consistency and providing a mechanism to utilize "model
components" in other ports. Further, GOC has a well-established base of environmental
laws and agencies, with trained staff, to monitor and enforce these laws; i.e., the project
could build on a strong existing base.
50.   Port and coastal environmental management is inherently complex due to
overlapping jurisdictions of different departments and ministries, port authorities and
private interests. If China did not already have a strong and existing base upon which the
project could be constructed, coupled with good leadership from MOC, this project would
have been much more difficult to implement and would likely have required more time.
Replication of this project in other countries can be successful, if there are established
regulatory and management regimes suitable to the task. Alternatively, such regimes



- 22 -
should be first established and stabilized, followed by construction of facilities and other
components.
51.   Management of ships and port wastes is only one aspect of port and coastal
maritime environmental management. The success of a ship waste project can be further
enhanced by (a) adoption of an environmental coastal zone and port management plan (a
concept already being initiated by the Xiamen Special Economic Zone);
(b) implementation of other pollution control activities (e.g., oil spill response); and
(c) control and management of land-based sources of pollution.



- 23 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                            X
Sector policies                                                                   x
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender issues                                                                     X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                                                          X
Private sector development                                                        X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                     X
Preparation assistance                                             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                               X
Covenant compliance                                               X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
x



-24 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of Approval
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose                                   Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Three Ports Project          Expansion           1982           C mpleted on 06/30/88
2.  Tianjin Port Project         Expansion           1986           Completed on 10/31/94
3.  Huangpu Port Project         Expansion           1987           Completed on 12/31/94
4.  Dalian Port Project          Expansion           1988           Completed on 12/31/93
5.  Xiamen Port Project          Expansion           1988           Completed on 03/31/95
6.  Ningbo and Shanghai Ports    Expansion           1988           Completed on 12/31/95
Following Operations
1.  Shanghai Port Restructuring and  Expansion       1992        To b completed on 06/30/99
Development Project
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                             Date planned            Date actual
Identification
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                               04/04/91-05/02/91
Negotiations                                                               04/22--24/92
Board presentation                                                          06/17/92
Signing                                                                     07/02/92
Effectiveness                                                               12/21/92
Project completion                                                          06/30/97
Loan closing                                                                06/30/97



- 25 -
TABLE 4: GEF GRANT/ CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
($ million)
Planned                                   Actual
GEF                 IDA                  GEF                  IDA
Quarterly Cumulative  Quarterly Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative   Quarterly Cumulative
12/31/92   3,000,000
03/31/93                                           3,000,000
06/30/93   3,000,000  6,000,000
09/30/93   6,000,000  12,000,000
12/31/93   6,000,000  18,000,000
03/31/94   6,000,000 24,000,000                     1,908,176  4,908,176
06/30/94   2,000,000 26,000,000
09/30/93   2,000,000 28,000,000  3,000,000           432,846  5,341,022
12/31/94   2,000,000 30,000,000  3,000,000  6,000,000  4,318,198  9,659,220
03/31/95                       3,000,000  9,000,000  2,286,456  11,945,676
06/30/95                       1,000,000 10,000,000  3,415,315  15,360,990
09/30/95                       3,000,000 13,000,000  4,622,570  19,983,560
12/31/95                      2,000,000 15,000,000  7,600,580  27,584,141
03/31/96                                           2,307,931  29,892,072   1,033,711
06/30/96                                             169,593  30,061,665   3,433,870  4,467,581
09/30/96                                           1,071,702  31,133,367    868,826  5,336,407
12/31/96                                              49,338  31,182,705   1,543,046  6,879,453
03/31/97                                             347,457  31,530,163   2,354,358  9,233,811
06/30/97                                              68,059  31,598,222   4,114,960 13,348,771
09/30/97                                             606,129  32,204,351    112,325 13,461,096
12/31/97                                             105,050  32,309,401   1,916,947 15,378,043



- 26 -
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Planned                  Actual
Action                    Responsibility     Starting    Completion   Starting   Completion
date        date        date        date
1. Oil boom materials
Material identification                  Port Authorities   05/01/92     08/01/92    05/01/92    08/01/92
Material sourcing                        Port Authorities   07/01/92     09/01/92    07/01/92    09/01/92
Approve purchase                       MOC/Port Authorities   09/01/92   10/01/92    09/01/92    10/01/92
Call ICB tenders                         Port Authorities    10/01/92    03/01/93     12/01/93    05/01/94
Purchase equipment                       Port Authorities   03/01/93     09/01/93    05/01/94    05/01/95
2. Oil water treatment facilities
Prepare plans                            Port Authorities   05/01/92     09/01/92    05/01/92    09/01/92
Prepare construction specifications      Port Authorities   09/01/92     12/01/92    09/01/92    12/01/92
Approve plans                          MOC/Port Authorities    12/01/92  01/01/93     12/01/92    01/01/93
Call NCB tenders                         Port Authorities   02/01/93     04/01/93     12/01/94    12/01/96
Call ICB tenders                         Port Authorities   02/01/93     06/01/93     12/01/93    12/01/96
Initiate construction                    Port Authorities   08/01/93     12/01/94    06/01/94    06/01/97
Purchase equipment                       Port Authorities   08/01/94     10/01/94    06/01/94    06/01/97
Install equipment                        Port Authorities    10/01/94   02/01/95     08/01/94    06/01/97
3. Sewage systems
Prepare plans                            Port Authorities   05/01/92     09/01/92    05/01/92    09/01/92
Prepare construction specifications      Port Authorities   09/01/92     11/01/92    09/01/92    11/01/92
Approve plans                          MOC/Port Authorities    12/01/92  02/01/93     12/01/92    02/01/93
Call NCB tenders                         Port Authorities   03/01/93     06/01/93     12/01/93    12/01/96
Cal! ICB tenders                         Port Authorities   03/01/93     08/01/93     12/01/93    12/01/96
Initiate construction                    Port Authorities   07/01/93     07/01/94    07/01/94    06/01/97
Purchase equipment                       Port Authorities   03/01/93    01/01/94     06/01/94    06/01/97
Install equipment                        Port Authorities   01/01/94     04/01/94    08/01/94    06/01/97
4. Garbage systems
Prepare plans                            Port Authorities   05/01/92     08/01/92    05/01/92    08/01/92
Prepare construction specifications      Port Authorities   07/01/92     09/01/92    07/01/92    09/01/92
Approve plans                          MOC/Port Authorities   09/01/92   11/01/92    09/01/92    11/01/92
Call NCB tenders                         Port Authorities    11/01/92    03/01/93    06/01/94    12/01/96
Call ICB tenders                         Port Authorities    11/01/92    04/01/93    06/01/94    12/01/96
Initiate construction                    Port Authorities   04/01/93     04/01/94    07/01/94    06/01/97
Purchase equipment                       Port Authorities   05/01/93     12/01/93     12/01/94    06/01/97
Install equipment                        Port Authorities   01/01/94     04/01/94    06/01/95    06/01/97
5. Environmental monitoring stations
Prepare plans                            Port Authorities   05/01/92     08/01/92    05/01/92    08/01/92
Prepare construction specifications      Port Authorities   07/01/92     09/01/92    07/01/92    09/01/92
Approve plans                          MOC/Port Authorities   09/01/92   10/01/92    09/01/92    10/01/92
Call NCB tenders                         Port Authorities    10/01/92    01/01/93    06/01/94    12/01/96
Call ICB tenders                         Port Authorities    10/01/92    02/01/93    06/01/94    12/01/96
Initiate construction                    Port Authorities    12/01/92    12/01/93    07/01/94    06/30/97
Purchase equipment                       Port Authorities   02/01/93     12/01/93     12/01/94    06/30/97
Install equipment                        Port Authorities    12/01/93    02/01/94    04/01/95    06/30/97
Staff training                           Port Authorities   06/01/93     02/01/94    01/01/95    06/30/97
6. Oil spill contingency planning study
Select consultant                          MOC/IDA          07/01/92     10/01/92    07/01/92    10/01/92
Developing plan                          MOC/consultant     01/01/93     05/01/93    01/01/93    05/01/93
Staff training                           MOC/consultant     06/01/93     12/01/93    06/01/93    12/01/93
Equipment selection                      MOC/consultant     01/01/94     05/01/94    01/01/94    05/01/94
7. Chemically contaminated waters study
Select consultant                          MOC/IDA          07/01/92     10/01/92    07/01/92    10/01/92
Assess problem                           MOC/consultant      11/01/92    01/01/93     11/01/92    01/01/93
Develop effluent criteria                MOC/consultant     01/01/93     04/01/93    01/01/93    04/01/93
Design system                            MOC/consultant     04/01/93     08/01/94    04/01/93    08/01/94
8. Technical assistance to XPA
Select consultant                        XPA/MOC/IDA         05/01/92    08/01/92    05/01/92    08/01/92
Prepare plan                             XPA/consultant     08/01/92     09/01/92    08/01/92    09/01/92
Staff training                           XPA/consultant      12/01/92    03/01/93     12/01/92    03/01/93
Program implementation                        XPA           03/01/93     06/01/93    03/01/93    06/01/93



- 27 -
TABLE 5B: TRAINING (MOC AND THE SIX PORTS)
Training course              1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
Overseas Training (Actual)
MARPOL                               18    13       5      8            44
Oil Spill Contingency Plan           20      4                          24
Tracking                                            5                    5
Chemical Waste                        6      2                           8
Oily Waste                                  13      6                   19
Monitoring                                         14      5      6    25
Project Implementation                5    14       9     17            45
Total                     49    46    39    30         6   170
Domestic Training (Actual)
MARPOL
Oil Spill Contingency Plan                  76                  102    178
Tracking                                           58            61    119
Chemical Waste                                             4             4
Oily Waste                                          8    28             36
Monitoring                                          7    29       2     38
Project Implementation                       1      3                    4
Total                            77    76    61    165   379



-28 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
(ESTIMATED SHIP WASTE QUANTITIES FOR 1990 AND 1996)
Ship      No. of       Oily Waste            Sewage              Garbage              Total
Port      Type La   Ships Lb    Tons    m;' L       Tons       ' Ld      Tons    m' L       Tons       m'
Dalian    0. G.        2,836    82,000    86,316    44,667     40,606     1,787    11,913    128,454   138,835
Coastal    18.381   729,000   767,368   206,786    187,987     8,271    55,140    944,057 1,010,495
Total      21,217   811,000   853,684   251,453    228,593    10,058   67,053  1,072,511 1,149,330
Tianjin    0. G.       4,603    23,013    24,224    72,497     65,906     2,900    19,333    98,410   109,463
Coastal     2,849    11,396    11,996    32,051     29,137     1,282    8,547     44,729   49,680
Total       7,452    34,409    36,220   104,548     95,043     4,182    27,880    143,139   159,143
Shanghai   0. G.       3,000    15,000    15,789    47,250     42,955     1,890   12,600     64,140   71,344
Coastal    254,000  1,270,000  1,336,842  2,857,500  2,597,727   114,300  762,000  4,241,800 4,696,569
Total     257,000  1,285,000  1,352,632  2,904,750  2,640,682   116,190  774,600  4,305,940 4,767,914
Ningbo    0. G.        1,840     4,190      4,411    28,980    26,345     1,159    7,727     34,329   38,483
Coastal     2,050     8,210      8,642    23,063    20,966      923     6,153     32,196   35,761
Total       3,890    12,400    13,053    52,043     47,311     2,082    13,880    66,525    74,244
Xiamnen    0. G.       1,119     5,595      5,889    17,624     16,022     705    4,700      23,924   26,611
Coastal    11,229    22,458    23,640   126,326    114,842     5,053    33,687    153,837   172,169
Total      12,348    28,053    29,529   143,950    130,864     5,758   38,387    177,761   198,780
Guangzhou 0. G.        3,069    16,500    17,368    48,337     43,943     1,933    12,887    66,770    74,198
Coastal    26,236   133,300   140,316   295,155    268,323    11,806    78,707    440,261   487,346
Total      29,305   149,800   157,684   343,492    312,266    13,739   91,594    507,031   561,544
Total  ICR-1996  331,212  2,320,662  2,442,802  3,800,236  3,454,759   152,009 1,013,394  6,272,907 6,910,955
SAR-1990  60,043   311,500   327,895   750,405    682,187   30,016  200,107  1,091,921 1,210,189
Growth p.a. (1990-96)    32.9%   39.8%     39.8%     31.0%      31.0%    31.0%     31.0%     33.8%    33.7%
/A O.G. = ocean going; Coastal = domestic shipping.
Lb Number of ships were estimated by dividing the total throughput by the average ship size.
Lg Oily waste weight: 950.0 kg/m 3.
Ld Sewage: 50.0 liters/day/person. Crew: 35 for 0. C., 25 for coastal. Average collection period: 9 days. Unit weight: 1. I tons/m3.
l Garbage: 2.0 kg/person/day. Unit weight of garbage: 150.0 kg/m .



- 29 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
1. Oil spill contingency planning study
The objective of this study was to protect environment and resources in the port area and
to prevent oil pollution damage from ships, oil terminals and oil facilities on shore.
Domestic consultants undertook this study. A generic port oil spill contingency planning
model and the oil spill contingency plan for the six ports were developed upon study.
2. Chemically contaminated water treatment study
This study was aimed at raising the ports' technical level with relation to the reception
and treatment of bulk chemically contaminated water and resolving the problem that
effluent discharge was below set standards. The study was undertaken by the domestic
Transportation University. The university has designated the effluent criteria for the
chemical substances contaminating the ballast, bilge and wash waters in accordance with
international conventions and Chinese laws and has finished the design of treatment study
to handle best the different types and quantities of chemicals for the ports in view of the
chemical cargoes shipment situations in the local ports.
3. Ship waste tracking study
The objective of the study was to help to conduct effective supervision and tracking over
the quantities of wastes retained on the ship so as to prevent wastes discharge from ships
during voyage. This study was jointly undertaken by domestic consultant Research
Institutes. Under the study, the system comprising of ship waste tracking and information
processing was established at each of the six ports with the headquarters stationed in the
Environment Monitoring Center (EMC) of MOC. Ninety-one units of computers and
supplementary instruments were equipped and the network software has also been
completed.
4. Cost-recovery and tariff/fee study
The objective of the study was both to settle the inadequate cost accountings presently
used for the waste reception and treatment facilities that were under severe deficit due to
low service charge and to establish the rational tariff structure that would ensure normal
operation of the new facility. This study was executed by domestic consultants. New tariff
standards for ship waste reception and treatment services for the ports have been drawn
upon the study.



- 30 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Planned                               Actual
Local  Local in   Foreign    Total   Local  Local in    Foreign    Total
Y'000   $'000   IDA   GEF  $'000   Y'000   $'000   IDA   GEF  $'000
National Component
Environmental monitoring & tracking   1,074    200          1,770  1,970    1,090                 1,906  1,906
Oil Spill contingency plan                                   290   290                              312   312
Chemical contaminated water study                            250   250                              269   269
Cost & tariffstudy                                           100   100                              108    108
Preparation of TOR for Yellow Sea LME                         60    60                               65    65
Subtotal                            1,074    200      0  2,470  2,670    1,090       0      0  2,660  2,660
Port Components
Dalian Port                              4,999    931   840  1,730  3,501    4,997      628   861  1,863  3,352
Tianjin Port                            21,212   3,950  2,220  4,230 10,400   21,210    2,664  2,276  4,556  9,495
Shanghai Port
SPA                                  15,627   2,910     0  6,000  8,910   15,619    1,962      0  6,462  8,424
Shanghai BOMTA                       84,148  15,670  6,230  4,310 26,210   84,145   10,568  6,387  4,642 21,597
Ningbo Port                              8,989   1,674  1,980  3,830  7,484    9,003    1,131  2,030  4,125  7,285
Xiamen Port                              5,329    992  1,480  2,920  5,363    5,863     736  1,517  3,145  5,398
Guangzhou Port                          33,224   6,187  2,250  4,510 12,947   33,224    4,173  2,307  4,857 11,337
Subtotal                          173,528  32,314 15,000 27,530 74,815  174,061   21,861 15,378 29,649 66,889
Total                             174,602  32,514 15,000 30,000 77,485  175,151   21,861 15,378 32,309 69,549
Exchange rate: Planned $1.00=Y 5.37
Actual $1.00=Y 7.962
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate                      Actual/late estimate
Source                  Local       Foreign      Total           Local       Foreign      Total
GEF                                   13.0          17.0        30.0            -         32.309      32.309
IDA                                    6.0           9.0        15.0           -           15.378      15.378
GOCandthePortAuthorities              19.8            -         19.8          21.861        -         21.861
Total                              38.8          26.0        64.8          21.861      47.687      69.549



- 31 -
TABLE 8c: ALLOCATION OF GRANT/CREDIT PROCEEDS
Planned                                   Actual La
Category                         Amount of  Amount of the                   Amount of    Amount of the
GEF Grant  Credit Allocated                GEF Grant         Credit Allocated
(in SDR)           (in SDR)                (in SDR)              (in SDR)
(1) Civil Works                   1,500,000           1,000,000            1,737,752.48              387,259.08
(2) Goods                       20,000,000          10,000,000            18,906,729.14           10,438,914.68
(3) Consultants' services           500,000                     0          1,160,753.57              108,674.00
and training
(4) Unallocated
Special Account                                                         125,909.70               -40,307.31
Cancellation                                                              68,845.11              105,459.55
Total                 22,000,000           11,000,000           22,000,000              11,000,000
/a    Estimate as of December 18, 1997.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS, BENEFITS AND MAJOR FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Central   Dalian Tianjin  Shanghai Ningbo Xiamen Guangzhou   Total
govemment  port   port    port    port    port          port LA
Total Traffic (1996, million tons)   ICR     -         49.    56.0    94.1       61.2     8.5    46.6          -
SAR         -        N/A    N/A     N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Financial (1996, in %):
Retum on average net fixed assets  ICR      -           1     16       5         2      12        1           -
SAR         -       N/A    N/A      N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Operating ratio                ICR          -         81      53      70        64      72       73           -
SAR                  N/A    N/A     N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Debt service coverage           ICR                    0.      2.1    14.6       1.3     3.2      1.4         -
SAR         -        N/A    N/A     N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Debt/(debt+equity) ratio        ICR         -         21     27       31        50      36      41
SAR         -        N/A    N/A     N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Current ratio                  ICR          -           1.     1.3     0.9       1.2     1.4      1.0
SAR         -       N/A    N/A      N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A            -
Economic:
Total cost(Y million)           ICR        17.6       28.   111.7   259.4       57.2    43.7    88.6        606.6
SAR       16.0        20.    48.2   130.9      44.1    52.2    32.8        344.1
Total benefits (million ton)Le  ICR         -           1.     0.1     4.31      0.0     0.1      0.50        6.27
SAR         -          0.     0.1      0.45      0.0     0.1     0.19         1.12
La Huangpu District.
/b Current costs.
L Total quantities of ship waste.



- 32 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                     nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section       type     Status      date         date          Description of covenant     Comments
Project   4.01                1         C                             Each of port authorities shall
furmish to the Association and
Trustee (a) financial statements
and (b) audited report not later
than six months after the end of
fiscal year.
Schedule 1         10        C                              Each of port authorities (a) by
December 1992 prepare and fumish
to the Association and Trustee a
garbage and solid waste
management plan and by December
31, 1994, adopt and implement such
a plan.
Schedule 2         10        C                              Each of port authorities shall, by  Each Port has
July 31, 1994, adopt oil spill   established an
contingency plan.                adopted
satisfactory Oil
Spill Contingency
Plan
Schedule 3         10        C                              GPA shall enter into agreements   GPA & BOMTA
with BOMTA for the handling of    decided to have
the oil ballast and bilge water for all separate facilities
port users at BOMTA facility at  and the Bank
Xing Zhao.                       agreed.
Schedule 5         10        C                              XPB shall establish, by June 30,  XPB has establish
1993, an Environmental Bureau,    an Environment
Each of the port authorities shall  Bureau.
establish, by December31, 1992, a
coordinating committee with
function and power.
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status:
I = Accounts/audits                  8 =Indigenous people                         C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting        CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project       covered by categories 1-9
funds                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                   budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the             allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)



-33 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff-weeks) la
FY                    1992       1993        1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        Total
Preappraisal
Appraisal             38.3                                                                             38.3
Negotiations          47.9                                                                             47.9
Supervision                                  13.9        14.9       13.1       25.4                    67.3
Completion                                                                                 18.4/b      18.4 /b
Total              86.2         0         13.9        14.9       13.1        25.4       18.4       171.9
L/ Staff Week is combined for Marine Pollution and Ship Waste Disposal Project.
Lb Staff Week in FY98 is an estimate.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-      Devel-
Stage of project cycle      Month!   Number of   Days  skills represented   mentation      opment       Type of
year     persons    in field       La          status Lb    objectives   problems L/
Identification              N/A /d
Preappraisal                N/A Ld
Appraisal                   04/91        3         40      FA/EC,ENV(2)
Negotiation
Board approval
Signing
Effective
Supervision 1               06/92        3          2       EC,EGR,OP          2              2
Supervision 2               03/93        3          4       EC,OP,EGR           2            2
Supervision 3               08/93        2          6        OP,EGR             2            2
Supervision 4                11/93       2          4       EGR,FA/EC           2             2
Supervision 5                12/94       3          2    EGR,FA/EC,ENV          2             2
Supervision 6               04/95        4          2       EGR,FA/EC           2             2
Supervision 7               09/95        2          1          EGR             2             2
Supervision 8               04/96        2          5        EGR,ENV            2            2
Supervision 9                10/96       2          12      EGR,FA/EC           2             2
Supervision 10              04/97        3         15    EGR,FA/EC,ENV          2             2
Completion
La EGR: Engineer; EC: Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; OP: Operations Specialist; ENV: Environmental Specialist.
Lb 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
L/ 1: Delay in implementing Action Plan; 2: Procurement delay.
/d Identification and Preappraisal were combined with Appraisal mission.






-35 -                     Appendix A
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    The Government of China initiated the Ship Waste Disposal Project in 1992, with
the objective of reducing coastal and harbor pollution, through provision of waste
reception and treatment facilities for shipping, development and implementation of a
waste tracking system, upgrading of environmental monitoring capabilities and
development and implementation of an oil spill response and contingency plan. The
project was undertaken in six major ports: Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen
and Guangzhou. A Bank supervision mission, consisting of Mr. Scott MacKnight
(consultant to EA2IN), visited Shanghai on April 20-23, Ningbo on April 24-27 and
Guangzhou (May 12-14). Messrs. Toshiro Tsutsumi and H.-K. Yen (EA2IN) joined him
for visits to Dalian (April 28-May 3), Tianjin (May 4-May 7), Xiamen (May 7-May 12)
and a final wrap-up meeting with the Port Authorities and the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) in Beijing on May 15, 1997. The mission wishes to thank
MOC, the various port authorities and Shanghai Bureau of Maritime Transportation
Administration for their hospitality and cooperation, not only during this mission, but
also throughout the period of this project. A list of staff participating in the discussions is
provided in Annex 1. The conclusions reached and the comments provided in this Aide
Memoire are subject to review and acceptance by the World Bank.
Shanghai Port Authority (SPA)
2.    Oil-Contaminated Wastewater. SPA has completed a facility in Pudong to
receive and process oil-contaminated wastewater from port ships. The facility, which
finished commissioning in early April, will have the capability to process annually
30,000 tons of wastes, with an effluent content of less than 10 ppm hydrocarbons.
3.    Chemical-contaminated wastewater. Processing of this type of waste was not
part of the SPA component of the project.
4.    Sanitary sewage wastewater. Processing of this type of waste was not part of the
SPA component of the project.
5.    Garbage and solid wastes. SPA has completed the civil works component of the
Pudong reception and treatment facility. Installation of the incineration equipment is in
the final stages and the facility should be completed commissioning by June 1997.
Schedule problems were due to difficulties in equipment delivery that was not resolved
until July 1996. When completed, the facility will be capable of processing about 2 tons/
day of wastes. Two of the three 500-ton capacity garbage collection barges have been
received and are ready for use. The third unit was authorized in July 1996 and is presently
under construction in a Shanghai shipyard. The third barge is scheduled for delivery by
June 1997.



- 36 -                    Appendix A
6.    Oil spill contingency and response. SPA participated in the national spill
response and contingency training organized by MOC. The Shanghai Bureau of Maritime
Transportation Administration mainly carries out the oil spill contingency plan for the
Port of Shanghai.
7.    Environmental monitoring. All monitoring equipment and the air pollution
monitoring van have been delivered and are now in use. At present, SPA has a detailed
program of monitoring twice per year at each terminal to assess air and water quality.
This is in addition to regular monitoring by the environmental monitoring unit of each
terminal. Current air quality is National Class III and water quality, except in the central
area of the Huangpu Jiang is National Class III; the latter area is at Class IV due to
extensive urban inputs via the Suzhou Creek. As part of the expenditures under this
project, SPA has constructed a new operations building at Pudong which will also house
a portion of the Environmental Monitoring Center, now located in older premises near
Terminal 2 in downtown Shanghai.
8.    Ship waste tracking system. SPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software.
9.    Cost recovery. MOC has not authorized any changes in the fee system. SPA will
continue to charge the existing rate and subsidize operation of the treatment facility.
10.   Training. All training, both local and abroad, has been successfully completed. In
some cases, training was relatively limited in time provided and SPA would like to
augment this with additional training, particularly in the area of environmental
management and waste facility operations.
11.   Conclusions. The SPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
There are two outstanding issues:
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   The current cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient and will require
modification by MOC.
12.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of SPA to process oil-contaminated wastewaters in the Port of
Shanghai. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of
hydrocarbons entering the estuarine and harbor environment during a period of
significant increase in shipping activity, both foreign and domestic. Project
implementation also provides for improved collection and treatment of garbage and solid
wastes. This will also provide a net improvement to the harbor environment. The cost
recovery fee structure is not sufficient for full sustainability and operation of the facility
has to be subsidized by SPA.



- 37 -                     Appendix A
Shanghai Bureau of Maritime Transportation Administration (S-BOMTA)
13.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. S-BOMTA has completed a facility near the
Waigaoqiao Terminal in Pudong to receive and process oil-contaminated wastewater
from both their extensive fleet and other shipping. The facility, which has just completed
commissioning, is managed by a wholly owned subsidiary company. Annual processing
capability is designed to be 400,000 tons of wastes, with a treated effluent content of less
than 10 ppm hydrocarbons. Constructed on the south side of the Yangtze River, the
facility provides ready access to all sizes of shipping with a 330 m berth having -8.5 m
LWT access. With completion of commissioning, the former tanker (moored off Liu He
Kou, further upriver) which had provided a treatment facility has been taken out of
commission and scrapped.
14.   Chemical-contaminated wastewater. The Waigaoqiao facility also has the
capability to receive and process up to 100,00 tons annually of chemical-contaminated
wastewater. While the facility has not yet begun to process such wastewaters, it has been
designed to handle a variety of wastes, including benzene and acid contamination.
15.   Sanitary sewage wastewater. Processing of this type of waste was not part of the
S-BOMTA component of the project. All sewage wasters from the facility are pumped to
the local municipal facilities for treatment.
16.   Garbage and solid wastes. All garbage and solid wastes from the shipping are
collected by SPA and taken to their disposal facility in Pudong. All wastes from the
treatment center are collected by the local municipal service and disposed at their facility.
17.   Oil spill contingency and response. As part of this project, S-BOMTA
purchased 600 m of oil boom to add to their existing 600 m of equipment. However,
S-BOMTA does not have a suitable vessel to deploy the boom and has had to make
arrangements with other sources to lease a vessel to meet short-term needs. As a result,
while S-BOMTA would like to deploy the boom at all times, it is not able to do so.
18.   S-BOMTA is familiar with the oil spill response plan developed for the port. It
participated in the national training program and will be participating in the spill response
exercise to be held in Ningbo in May 1997.
19.   Environmental monitoring. All laboratory equipment has been purchased and is
in the final stages of installation. The equipment is to be used only for the testing of
effluents and received wastewaters. The SPA Environmental Monitoring Center
undertakes any site monitoring (air and water).
20.   Ship waste tracking system. While SPA has received the computer hardware for
the ship waste tracking system, neither the hardware nor the software has yet been
installed at the S-BOMTA treatment facility. No S-BOMTA staff has yet undertaken any
training in the use of the software. In the interim, S-BOMTA has continued to maintain
data records on a manual basis.



-38 -                      Appendix A
21.   Cost recovery. Operation of the facility is quite expensive. S-BOMTA has
estimated per ton costs to operate the former tanker off Liu He Kou as Y 1.5. Estimated
costs for the new treatment facility are Y 48 per ton. After extensive negotiations with
MOC, a new fee of Y 22 per ton has been implemented.
22.   Training. All training, both local and foreign, has been satisfactorily completed.
In some cases, training was relatively limited in time provided and S-BOMTA vvould like
to augment this with additional training.
23.   Conclusions. The S-BOMTA portion of the project has been successfully
implemented. There are three outstanding issues:
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   Provision of a small vessel to deploy the oil spill containment boom. This
was not included in the original project and will have to be addressed
through internal or MOC funds.
(c)   The current cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient and will require
further modification by MOC.
24.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil-contaminated wastewaters in the Port of
Shanghai and for shipping in the lower Yangtze River. This will result in a net
environmental benefit through reduction of hydrocarbons entering the coastal, estuarine
and harbor environment during a period of significant increase in shipping activity, both
foreign and domestic. Project implementation also provides for treatment of chemically
contaminated wastewaters. While not yet a significant environmental issue, the scope of
industrial investments indicates, there will be significant requirement for such capability
in the near future. The recently modified cost recovery fee structure is still not sufficient
for full sustainability and operation of the facility has to be subsidized by S-BOMTA.
Ningbo Port Authority (NPA)
25.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. NPA has completed two facilities to process oil-
contaminated wastewater: one forming part of an oil terminal at Beilun; the other
associated with an oil terminal at Zhenhai. The Beilun facility is capable of processing
annually 30,000 tons of wastes; the Zhenhai facility is capable of processing, both with
an effluent content of less than 10 ppm hydrocarbons.
26.   Chemical-contaminated wastewater. NPA  has refurbished the chemically
contaminated wastewater at Zhenhai. This system provides for treatment of both acidic
and organic chemical contaminated wastewaters. In addition, NPA has refurbished the
iron ore wastewater treatment facility at Beilun to provide for treatment and reuse of the



- 39 -                    Appendix A
water to reduce dust from the storage piles. This process will save about Y 400,000 per
year.
27.   Sanitary sewage wastewater. Processing of this type of waste was not part of the
NPA component of the project. However, sanitary wastes from the marine oil and
chemicals terminal at Zhenhai are also treated within the chemical wastewaters treatment
system.
28.   Garbage and solid wastes. NPA has completed the civil works component of the
Zhenhai incineration facility and is in the final stages of commissioning the two
incinerators. The facility will be capable of processing about 200 kg/hour. A large 50 m3
garbage collection barge has been received and is now in operation. In addition, NPA has
purchased two garbage collection trucks to haul garbage from the barge to the incinerator.
29.   Oil spill contingency and response. NPA participated in the national spill
contingency plan and has a specific plan for the Port of Ningbo. NPA will be hosting a
national oil spill response planning exercise to be held May 8-15, 1997. NPA is awaiting
delivery of two vessels related to oil spill response: (a) 500-ton waste capacity collection
vessel and (b) an oil spill response emergency command vessel. NPA routinely uses the
oil spill containment boom to surround vessels being off-loaded at the Beilun Marine Oil
Terminal. In addition to the 2,000 m purchased under this project, NPA has also
purchased an additional 2,000 m of containment boom, which is also being used at the
Beilun Marine Oil Terminal.
30.   Environmental monitoring. All monitoring equipment and the monitoring van
have been delivered and are now in use. In addition to a very extensive package of
analytical testing equipment, NPA has purchased a Perkin Elmer AAS with graphite
furnace and autosampling attachment through funds made available through funds from
the Ningbo Port Development Project. NPA agreed to provide the mission with a copy of
the 1996 environmental monitoring data set in Beijing on May 15, 1997.
31.   Ship waste tracking system. NPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software. NPA is
using the system to maintain data records of wastes collected and handled.
32.   Cost recovery. MOC has not authorized any changes in the fee system. NPA will
continue to charge the existing rate and subsidize operations of the treatment facilities to
a current cost of about Y 8 million.
33.   Training. All training, both local and abroad, has been successfully completed. In
some cases, training was relatively limited and NPA would like to augment this with
additional training, particularly in the areas of environmental management and oil spill
contingency planning.
34.   Conclusions. The NPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
There are two outstanding issues:



- 40 -                    Appendix A
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   The current cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient and will require
modification by MOC.
35.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil-contaminated wastewaters in the Port of
Ningbo. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of hydrocarbons
entering the estuarine and harbor environment during a period of significant increase in
shipping activity, both foreign and domestic (about 10 percent higher than was projected
in 1991). Project implementation also provides for improved collection and treatment of
garbage and solid wastes and collection and treatment of chemically contaminated
wastewaters. This will also provide a net improvement to the harbor environment. The
cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient for full sustainability and operation of the
facility has to be subsidized by NPA.
Dalian Port Authority (DPA)
36.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. DPA has renovated and upgraded reception and
treatment facilities to process oil-contaminated wastewater at Siergou (located in Dalian
Bay) and at the New Harbor Oil Terminal (located at the mouth of Da Yao Bay). The
Siergou facility has a design processing capacity of 1.2 million tons per year, primarily
originating from refined product cargoes; the New Harbor facility has a capacity of
1 million tons per year to an effluent content of less than 5 ppm hydrocarbons. The New
Harbor Terminal facility upgrades the existing capability of handling crude oil
wastewater. The facility also treats about 600,000 tons of wastewater from refined
product cargoes.
37.   Chemical-contaminated wastewater. DPA has refurbished the chemically
contaminated wastewater treatment system at Siergou with a treatment capacity of
100,000 tons per year. The treatment system is capable of handling such organic
contaminants as benzene, ethylene glycol and alcohols.
38.   Sanitary sewage wastewater. DPA renovated a sanitary sewage wastewater
treatment plant at the Xianglujiao Terminal by installation of a new RBC system.
39.   Garbage and solid wastes. There were no expenditures under this project for this
type of waste.
40.   Oil spill contingency and response. DPA participated in the national spill
contingency plan and has a specific plan for the Port of Dalian, finalized in late 1995.
DPA and the Dalian Harbor Superintendency Administration will be participating in the
oil spill response exercise to be held in Ningbo in May 1997. Through funding from this
project, DPA has purchased 2,000 m of oil containment boom to augment about 3,000 m,



- 41 -                     Appendix A
which it already owned. The booms are routinely used to surround vessels being off-
loaded at both the Siergou and New Harbor Terminals.
41.   Environmental monitoring. All monitoring equipment and the laboratory
vehicle have been delivered and are now in use. While the equipment augments existing
capabilities, DPA indicated the older building (near the Siergou Terminal) which is
presently occupied by the Environmental Monitoring Center will be renovated with
provision of additional support infrastructure (e.g., fume hoods, etc.). DPA provided the
mission with a copy of the 1996 environmental monitoring data set.
42.   Ship waste tracking system. DPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software. DPA is
using the system to maintain data records of wastes collected and handled.
43.   Cost recovery. MOC has not authorized any changes in the fee system. DPA will
continue to charge the existing rate structure (e.g., Y 1.7/ton for foreign vessel oil-
contaminated wastewater) and subsidize operations of the treatment facilities. Day-to-day
operations of both treatment systems are conducted by the respective terminal operating
companies and DPA will provide to the mission on May 15 with estimated operating
budgets for each facility.
44.   Training. With the exception of one final set of foreign training scheduled for
June 1997, all training, both local and abroad, has been successfully completed. In some
cases, training was relatively limited and DPA would like to augment this with additional
training, particularly in laboratory testing.
45.   Conclusions. The DPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
There are three outstanding issues:
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   The current cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient and will require
modification by MOC.
(c)   Improvements to the Monitoring Center and Laboratory facilities.
46.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil and chemical-contaminated wastewaters in the
Port of Dalian. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of
hydrocarbons and other chemical wastes entering the harbor and coastal waters
environment, during a period of significant increase in shipping activity, both foreign and
domestic. The cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient for full sustainability and
operation of the facility has to be subsidized by DPA.



- 42 -                     Appendix A
47.   Financial Evaluation. The mission reviewed and discussed the consolidated
financial statements provided by DPA during the visit. The statements cover the actual
financial performance (income statement, source and applications of fund's statement and
balance sheet statement) of DPA during the period 1988-96.
48.   The mission also discussed the project financing, revenue, expenditure, tax
payments, loan and related investments by the Port. The mission analyzed the revised
consolidated financial statements of DPA. A draft financial evaluation for the project has
been given to DPA for review and comment. The mission requested and DPA agreed that
any comment from DPA on the draft financial statements would be sent to the Bank
before June 30, 1997.
Tianjin Port Authority (TPA)
49.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. TPA  is in the process of upgrading the
wastewater treatment facility at the Tianjin Oil Bunkering Company (Beijiang) and has
constructed a new wastewater reception and treatment facility in the Nanjiang area. The
Beijiang facility improvements provide for two new storage tanks of 4,000 m3 with
associated piping to augment existing facilities. This represents an investment of Y 1.5
million and $429,000. TPA is awaiting delivery in late May of steel for the construction
with completion scheduled by December 1997. The new Nanjiang facility has a design
processing capacity of 200 tons per hour and a holding capacity of 4,000 m3. In addition,
TPA has purchased a multiwaste vessel with a holding capacity of 160 mr and an onboard
processing capacity of 10 tons/hour. This represents an investment of Y 33.82 million and
$881,000.
50.   Chemical-contaminated  wastewater. TPA  is constructing  a chemically
contaminated wastewater treatment system adjacent to the oil-contaminated wastewater
facility at Nanjiang. This facility will be able to receive up to 100 m3 at any one time with
storage in three holding tanks and a processing capacity of 8 m3 per hour. Completion is
expected by January 1998 and represents an investment of Y 12.23 million and $580,000.
The treatment system is capable of handling such organic contaminants as benzene,
xylene and chlorobenzene.
51.   Sanitary  sewage wastewater. TPA  also constructed a sanitary sewage
wastewater treatment at the Nanjiang wastewater facility with a design capacity of
600 tons/day.
52.   Garbage and solid wastes. TPA has purchased five garbage transfer trucks and is
constructing a waste incinerator in the Beijiang area, with completion scheduled by
June 30, 1997. The incinerator will have a capacity of 300 kg/hr. This represents an
investment of Y 6 million and $183,000 plus $143,000 for the five trucks. TPA has also
purchased two roadway sweep and two water spray vehicles to remove coal dust and
clean roadways within the port area, for an investment of $271,000.



- 43 -                    Appendix A
53.   Oil spill contingency and response. TPA participated in the national spill
contingency plan and has a specific plan for the Port of Tianjin, finalized in late 1995.
TPA and the Tianjin Harbor Superintendency Administration will be participating in the
oil spill response exercise to be held in Ningbo in May 1997. TPA and the Harbor
Superintendency will also be holding additional response training exercises in the harbor
later this summer. Under this project, TPA purchased 2,600 m of oil containment boom
for an investment of $249,000. The booms are routinely used to surround vessels being
off-loaded at both sides of the harbor. TPA has also purchased 2 oil skimmer units, 8
special oil mops, 1 surface concentration net, 1 ton of oil-absorbent material and 1.5 tons
of oil-dispersant chemical.
54.   Environmental monitoring. All monitoring equipment and the laboratory
vehicles have been delivered and are now in use. TPA has initiated a cooperation
agreement with the Department of Environmental Studies of Tianjin Nankai University,
in which senior graduate students and research fellows use the new port testing
equipment, while assisting in the training of port staff and developing new testing
protocols. TPA provided the mission with a copy of the 1996 environmental monitoring
data set.
55.   Ship waste tracking system. TPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software. TPA and
the Harbor Superintendency will participate in a further two-week training session at the
Tianjin Hydraulic Engineering Research Institute in late May to enhance their operation
of the waste tracking system.
56.   Cost recovery. MOC has not authorized any changes in the fee system. TPA will
continue to charge the existing rate structure and subsidize operations of the treatment
facilities. The terminal operating companies conducts day-to-day operations of the
treatment systems.
57.   Training. TPA has undertaken foreign training for staff members in the United
States (oil spill response and environmental monitoring) and in Germany (chemical waste
processing). Domestic training has or will include oil spill response (2 for 1 week), ship
waste tracking (2 for 1 week), oil waste treatment (16 for 15 days) and environmental
monitoring (40 for 1 week). TPA would like to augment this with additional training in
oil spill response.
58.   Conclusions. The TPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
There are three outstanding issues:
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   The current cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient and will require
modification by MOC.



- 44 -                    Appendix A
(c)   Delivery and commissioning of (i) the Beijiang waste storage tanks,
(ii) chemical waste processing facility and (iii) the garbage incinerator.
59.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil and chemical-contaminated wastewaters in the
Port of Tianjin. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of
hydrocarbons and other chemical wastes entering the harbor and coastal waters
environment, during a period of significant increase in shipping activity and land-based
oil and petroleum chemical processing. The cost recovery fee structure is not sufficient
for full sustainability and operation of the facility has to be subsidized by TPA.
60.   Financial Evaluation. The mission reviewed and discussed the consolidated
financial statements provided by TPA during the visit. The statements cover the actual
financial performance (income statement, source and applications of fund's statement and
balance sheet statement) of TPA during the period 1988-96.
61.   The mission also discussed the project financing, revenue, expenditure, tax
payments, loan and related investments by the Port. The mission analyzed the revised
consolidated financial statements of TPA. A draft financial evaluation for the project has
been given to TPA for review and comment. The mission requested and TPA agreed that
any comment from TPA on the draft financial statements would be sent to the Bank
before June 30, 1997.
Xiamen Port Authority (XPA)
62.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. XPA  has purchased a new  environmental
protection services vessel that has the capacity to receive up to 90 m3 of oil-contaminated
wastewater and process the wastes through two 10-ton/hour treatment systems. In
addition, the vessel is equipped with various oil spill response equipment and can act as a
spill response vessel as required. This vessel is routinely berthed at a new 132 m wharf
(4 m depth of water) within the Dongdu I Terminal area. In addition, there is a 262 m2
storage warehouse for the oil containment boom and other related equipment. This
represents investments of $2.21 million for the vessel, Y 4 million for the terminal and
warehouse and Y 680,000 for related design work.
63.   Chemical-contaminated wastewater. At this time, there are no such wastewaters
being generated within the XPA and this component was not part of the project.
64.   Sanitary sewage wastewater. XPA has constructed a new secondary treatment
sanitary sewage wastewater facility at the Dongdu II Terminal area. This represents an
investment of Y 850,000 for civil works and $570,800 for equipment.
65.   Garbage and solid wastes. XPA is completing construction of a new incinerator
facility at the Dongdu Terminal. This will have a capacity of 200 kg/hr and is located in
the old coal terminal area to the north end of the port. Garbage and sanitary sewage will
be collected using a new barge with a holding capacity of 20 tons of garbage and 80 tons



- 45 -                    Appendix A
of sewage water. Use of a barge permits XPA to collect wastes from ships anywhere
within the harbor area. Civil works should be completed by September 1997 and the
incinerator fully operational by December 1997. This represents an investment of
$175,871 for equipment, Y 400,000 for civil works and approximately Y 1,534,479 for
the garbage/sanitary sewage collection barge.
66.   Oil spill contingency and response. XPA participated in the national spill
contingency plan and has a specific plan for the Port of Xiamen, finalized in late 1995.
XPA and the Xiamen Harbor Superintendency Administration will be participating in the
oil spill response exercise to be held in Ningbo in May 1997. Under this project, XPA
purchased 1,000 m of containment boom for an investment of $92,364 and has proposed
to purchase an additional 1,000 m for $60,000 derived from the SDR/US dollar exchange
rate differences. As XPA does not have an oil terminal, the boom has been reserved for
spill response. There are some discussions with a private terminal to provide routine
deployment during operations at that terminal. XPA has also purchased oil response
equipment, including oil skimmer and oil-absorbent material. This represents an
investment of $152,365 for the boom and approximately $200,000 for other related
equipment.
67.   Environmental monitoring. A  section of the building in which the
environmental monitoring center is located has been fully renovated to serve the center.
All monitoring equipment and the laboratory vehicle have been delivered and are now in
use. As part of their package, XPA has purchased air pollution monitoring equipment for
total suspended particulate (TSP) and carbon monoxide. Total investment was Y 500,00
for civil works and $482,340 for equipment and vehicle. XPA proposes to purchase
monitoring equipment for SO2 and NOx using funds derived from the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate difference. The mission was provided with a copy of the 1996
environmental monitoring data for the harbor area.
68.   Ship waste tracking system. XPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software. XPA will
participate in a further two-week training session at the Tianjin Hydraulic Engineering
Research Institute in late May to enhance operation of the waste tracking system and
obtain a copy of the latest version of the software.
69.   Cost recovery. XPA has not had any waste treatment facilities in the past and
therefore has not yet established a fee schedule. XPA will use existing MOC-approved
fee structures.
70.   Training. XPA has undertaken foreign training for staff members in Japan and
Korea (ship waste treatment processing, 6 for 20 days), Singapore (environmental
monitoring, 8 for 4 weeks) and France/Germany/Denmark/Norway (ship waste
processing, 2 teams of 5 for each of 20 days). Domestic training has or will include oil
spill response (2 for 1 week) and ship waste tracking (1 for 1 week and 1 or 2 for 2
weeks).



- 46 -                     Appendix A
71.   Technical Assistance. As part of this project, XPA contracted with a foreign
specialist (US) to develop an operations and training program for the Environmental
Monitoring Center. The consultant visited Xiamen in March and will be submitting a
final report by May 15. He will return to Xiamen at that time to complete associated
training and program familiarization.
72.   Conclusions. The XPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
Outstanding issues relate to commissioning of the environmental services ship and the
incinerator.
73.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil-contaminated and sanitary sewage wastewaters
in the Port of Xiamen. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of
hydrocarbons and sanitary sewage entering the harbor and coastal waters environment,
during a period of significant increase in shipping activity. The new waste treatment and
monitoring facilities also support the role of XPA in the recently approved[ Xiamen
Municipal Coastal Zone Management Law and future Marine Superintendency and
Marine Pollution Prevention Laws. It is notable that XPA was invited, along with other
stakeholders, to participate in extensive consultation with respect to the new laws. As the
waste facilities are a new undertaking by XPA, there are no comparable cost recovery
estimates to determine sustainability.
74.   Financial Evaluation. The mission reviewed and discussed the consolidated
financial statements provided by XPA during the visit. The statements cover the actual
financial performance (income statement, source and applications of fund's stateiment and
balance sheet statement) of XPA during the period 1988-96.
75.   The mission also discussed the project financing, revenue, expenditure, cash flow,
balance sheet and related investments by the Port. The mission analyzed the revised
consolidated financial statements of XPA. A draft financial evaluation for the project has
been given to XPA for review and comment. The mission requested and XPA agreed that
any comment from XPA on the draft financial statements would be sent to the Bank
before June 30, 1997.
Guangzhou Port Authority (GPA)
76.   Oil-contaminated wastewater. GPA is completing a wastewater treatment
facility at the XiJi Oil Terminal with a capacity of 500 tons/day. Wastes can be directly
received from ships at the Terminal or from a wastewater reception ship (investment of
$813,200). The wastewater treatment plant will also be capable of processing sanitary
sewage. Total investment is Y 15.61 million for civil works (also includes a laboratory/
dormitory building) and $2.514 million for equipment.
77.   Chemical-contaminated  wastewater. GPA  is constructing  a chemically
contaminated wastewater treatment system at the DanShuiHe Dangerous Goods
Terminal. The facility was to be originally designed for wastes resulting from the



-47 -                     Appendix A
handling of mostly packaged chemicals, but was redesignated to handling of liquid bulk
cargoes in late 1995 to better reflect the nature of the cargoes. This has resulted in a
requirement for design changes and has delayed initiation of construction until June 1997
(projected investment of Y 3.972 million for civil works and Y 1.08 million for
installation). However, equipment has been purchased (investment of $633,000) and the
mission was assured the equipment would be suitable for the proposed wastes. The
treatment system will be capable of handling such organic contaminants as benzene and
xylene and acid/alkali wastes.
78.   Sanitary sewage wastewater. GPA has constructed a 300 ton/day facility with
secondary treatment at the XiJi Terminal to process sewage from ships, as collected by a
wastewater collection vessel (capacity of 420 tons of oil-contaminated and 100 tons of
sanitary sewage wastewater) representing an investment of $813,200. The facility is
included in the investments described under oil-contaminated wastewater. The facility is
being expanded using GPA funds to a capacity of 3000 tons/day to handle wastes from
adjacent port facilities. The chemical waste treatment facility at DanShuiHe will also
include facilities to process sanitary sewage from the port facilities at 100 tons/day.
79.   Garbage and solid wastes. GPA has constructed a new waste incinerator with
final commissioning in April 1997. The incinerator has a capacity of 2.4 tons/day and
represents an investment of Y 880,000 (for civil works) and $279,000 (for equipment).
80.   Oil spill contingency and response. GPA participated in the national spill
contingency plan and has a specific plan for the Port of Guangzhou, finalized in late
1995. The plan will not be altered without further direction from MOC. GPA and the
Guangzhou Harbor Superintendency Administration have participated in the oil spill
response exercise to be held in Ningbo in May 1997. GPA and the Harbor
Superintendency have also held several oil spill response training exercises (classroom
and field) in 1994, 1995 and 1996. Under this project, GPA purchased 2,500 m of oil
containment boom for an investment of $150,000. Sections of the boom are routinely
used to surround vessels being off-loaded at the XiJi Oil Terminal; e.g., in 1995, GPA
deployed the boom around 303 vessels. As part of this project, GPA has also purchased
an oil spill recovery vessel (investment of $808,835) and an oil boom deployment vessel
(investment of $484,620). In addition, GPA has invested about Y 300,000 to purchase
other spill response equipment, such as oil skimmers, oil absorbent material and
dispersant chemical.
81.   Environmental monitoring. All monitoring equipment and the laboratory
vehicle (representing a total investment of $551,141) have been delivered and are now in
use. GPA has invested about Y 325,000 in additional laboratory equipment and Y 1
million in building renovations for the monitoring center. The mission was provided with
detailed maps of the water and air quality sampling sites throughout the port facilities and
a copy of the 1996 monitoring data.



- 48 -                     Appendix A
82.   Ship waste tracking system. GPA has acquired all hardware for the system, but
there are still some problems in networking the computers and in the software. Fourteen
GPA staff and others from the Harbor Superintendency will participate in a further two-
week training session at the Tianjin Hydraulic Engineering Research Institute in late May
to enhance their operation of the waste tracking system.
83.   Cost recovery. MOC has not authorized any changes in the fee system. GPA will
or is using the existing rate structure and is likely to have to subsidize operations. GPA
does not have separate costs for waste facility operation.
84.   Training. GPA has undertaken foreign training for staff members in the United
States/Canada (4x23 days for MARPOL wastes), Netherlands/Germany (lx45 days for
chemical waste processing) and Netherlands/United Kingdom (5x21 days for port waste
management). Domestic training has very extensive, primarily in oil spill response and
laboratory and monitoring equipment.
85.   Conclusions. The GPA portion of the project has been successfully implemented.
There are four outstanding issues:
(a)   Finalization of the ship waste tracking system, which will require further
assistance from MOC.
(b)   Based on comments from the other five ports, the current cost recovery fee
structure is not likely to be sufficient and will require modification by
MOC.
(c)   Construction and commissioning of the chemical waste processing facility.
(d)   Commissioning of the XiJi wastewater treatment center.
86.   Project Sustainability and Benefits. GPA has made a total investment of Y 29.5
million and approximately $7.12 million. Implementation of this project significantly
increases the capability of processing oil and chemical-contaminated wastewaters in the
Port of Guangzhou. This will result in a net environmental benefit through reduction of
hydrocarbons and other chemical wastes entering the Pearl River delta environment,
during a period of significant increase in shipping activity and land-based oil and
petroleum chemical processing. The cost recovery fee structure is not likely to be
sufficient for full sustainability and operation of the facility will likely have to be
subsidized by GPA until direction is obtained from MOC to revise the fee schedule.
Ministry of Communications (MOC)
87.   Several studies have been completed by consultants operating under contracts
with MOC. The status of these projects and their implementation is as follows.



- 49 -                    Appendix A
88.   Oil Spill Response and Contingency. MOC provided the Bank with copies (in
English) of the national plan and separate plans for each of the six ports in late 1995.
These were reviewed and found to be very satisfactory. MOC has initiated internal
discussions including the Harbor Superintendency Administration (HSA), the Port
Authorities and other interested agencies as to how best to implement the plans and to
ensure smooth cooperation. MOC informed the mission the general guidelines for
developing the plans for the six ports will be extended to the other major ports in China.
MOC indicated the necessary documentation (regulations, guidelines for plans and
technical guidelines for equipment) should be ready for implementation in autumn 1997.
As proposed to the Bank in May 1996, $20,000 was used to conduct a one-week oil spill
response training program (classroom and field exercises) in Ningbo. This was held
May 8-15, 1997 and was very successful with 106 participants. MOC has requested the
Bank consider making available funds to cover the additional costs incurred.
89.   Cost Recovery and Port Fee Schedule Changes. MOC provided the Bank with
a revised report (in English) in April 1997. The report recommended one national fee
schedule combining the costs of the new and existing waste reception facilities. MOC and
the Ports recognize the new fee schedule may not provide sufficient funds for total cost
recovery, but is reasonably fair to all ports. Further the new fee schedule will apply to all
ports, with funds in the other ports to be reserved for construction or improvements to
waste handling facilities. The recommended fee schedule is now being reviewed within
MOC and a recommendation for revisions to the Port Fee Schedule will be made to the
State Planning Commission and Pricing Bureau by September 1, 1997. MOC agreed to
forward a copy of the recommended schedule to the Bank at that time. MOC indicated
they were unable to provide a date for approval by the Planning Commission, but hoped
changes could be made in 1998. MOC agreed to keep the Bank informed of the progress
of approval for the new fee schedule.
90.   Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) Multilateral Study. The LME was financed
through GEF and other funding arrangements with the study to be conducted jointly by
China, People's Democratic Republic of Korea (PDRK) and the Republic of Korea
(ROK). Although the PDRK subsequently did not participate, China and ROK conducted
several study preparation workshops through 1993 with a submission to the Ministry of
Finance for project approval in January 1994. Further workshops and meetings were held,
culminating in a submission to be made, through the United Nations Development
Program to GEF, in June 1997. The State Oceanographic Administration (SOA) agreed to
provide the Bank with copies of the Terms of Reference for the program (as derived from
the January 1994 submission to the Ministry of Finance) and the proposal for further
funding under GEF.
91.   Training. Under the GEF portion of the project financing, approximately $91,000
is available, but to complete four study groups proposed for Canada/United States and
Belgium/Netherlands will require about $150,000. MOC asked the Bank to consider
permitting transfer of some funds within the IDA portion to cover training costs. The



- 50 -                     Appendix A
Bank will consider this request. MOC was informed of the need to complete any foreign
training by June 30, 1997.
92.   Ship Waste Tracking System. The mission discussed some concerns with
implementation of the tracking system, primarily related to staff training. MOC informed
the mission there will be a detailed training session (classroom and practical experience
with computer terminals) to be conducted by the Tianjin Hydraulic and Engineering
Research Institute. The session will begin on May 20 for 15 days and will be attended by
estimated 60 participants from the port authorities and HSA's. Some other technical
details have been resolved through modifications to the software. The Bank requested and
MOC agreed to provide a copy of the software and the detailed documentation.
Next Steps
93.   The mission requested and MOC agreed to provide copies of the borrowers'
evaluations of the project by July 30, 1997. This will permit incorporation of all
comments into the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The draft ICR vvill be sent
to MOC in October 1997 for further comment and provision of last financial statements.
The final ICR will be submitted to the Board of the Bank by December 30, 1997.
94.   The mission requested and MOC agreed to provide copies of fuiture waste
reception data as compiled through the Ship Waste Tracking System from each of the six
ports for the years 1997 to 2001. The Bank will forward this information to GEF as part
of a report on implementation success.
95.   The mission reiterated the need for all foreign purchases and spending to be
completed by June 30, 1997 with provision of final financial statements by October 30,
1997.



- 51 -                    Appendix A
ANNEX 1: LIST OF STAFF
Shanghai Port Authority
Ma Zhong Pei (Planning Division)
Yang Yu Ming (Financial Division)
Zhang Hao Chang (Engineering Division)
Zhang Jian Lie (Environmental Protection Division)
Shi Xin Di (Environmental Protection Division)
Wang Xiao Long (Environmental Protection Division)
Wu Yan Hong (Foreign Affairs Department, translator)
Shanghai Bureau of Maritime Transportation Administration
Zhang Jian Zhong (Ship Waste Treatment Plant)
Wang Nian Zu (Ship Waste Treatment Plant)
Wu Miao Gen (Sales & Marketing Dept., translator)
Ningbo Port Authority
Huang Rui Cong (Environmental Protection Department)
Wu Yue Sheng (Environmental Protection Department)
Xu Hui Fang (Environmental Protection Department)
Wu Jin Kun (Deputy Director)
Jiang Feng Xiang (Foreign Affairs Bureau, translator)
Dalian Port Authority
Zhang Guang Zhou (Capital Construction and Engineering Dept.)
Yang Wei Qun (Sanitation and Environmental Protection Dept.)
Liang Zuo Min (Capital Construction and Engineering Dept.)
Sun De Quan (Siergou Stevedoring Company)
(Ms.) Fang Li Jun (New Harbor Stevedoring Company)
Lu Pei Xian (Finance Dept.)
Wei Guang Long (Foreign Economic Cooperation Dept.)
(Ms.) Wang Min (Business Operations Dept.)
Jiang Lu Ning (Foreign Economic Cooperation Dept.)
Zhang Feng Qiang (Foreign Affairs Office, translator)



- 52 -                    Appendix A
Tianjin Port Authority
Liu Pei Ran (Planning and Financial Department)
Shao Bing Hua (Planning and Financial Department)
Yang Xue Jun (Planning and Financial Department)
Yao Hao Ping (Environmental Protection Department)
Liang Zhu Gang (Foreign Economy & Affairs Department, translator)
Xiamen Port Authority
Dai Hui Wang (Deputy Director, XPA)
Li Shi Fang (Environmental Monitoring Center)
Hong Li Juan (Environmental Monitoring Center)
Li Jin Zhai (Finance Department)
Li Hui (Finance Department)
Guangzhou Port Authority
Wu Shao Dong (Deputy Director)
Chen Zhi Min (Deputy Director)
(Ms.) Feng Jin Sun (Deputy Director, Sanitary and Environment Division)
Ma Chu Jiang (Huangpu Engineering Command, Planning Section)
Ma Dong Jun (Huangpu Engineering Command, Equipment Section)
Li Xu Bin (Environmental Section, Sanitary and Environment Division)
Luo Ying Tian (Huangpu Engineering Command, Financial Section)
Xu Zhi Jun (Financial Division)
Liu Bin (Planning Division)
Margaret Guo (Foreign Affairs Office, translator)
He Chao Xiong (Harbor Engineering Command, translator)
Ministry of Communications
Sun Gou Qing (Planning Department)
(Ms.) Xia Hong (Planning Department)
Lao Hui (Harbor Superintendency Administration)
Gao Jie (Harbor Superintendency Administration)
Other Organizations
(Ms.) Feng Yong Mei (China International Tendering Company, translator)
Wang Zhong (State Oceanic Administration)
Fu Pei Nan (China Academy of Transportation Sciences)
Tan Xiao Gang (Ministry of Finance)



- 53 -                    Appendix B
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    General
1.1   Name of Project: China Ship Waste Disposal Project
1.2   Background
Since the opening policy and economic reforms introduced in 1979, the scale of both
foreign and ship traffics in the coastal ports are continuously being developed and
expanded along with the rapid development of the Chinese economy. As required by
MARPOL 73/78 of the International Maritime Organization, the coastal ports need to
have sufficient reception and treatment facilities for wastes from ships. Yet, the anoint of
the ship waste disposal equipment already existed in the ports could not satisfy the new
requirements. As the waters of the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea and the South China
Sea by which the six major ports are located are the critical waters for international
shipment and key marine ecosystems in the world, and for the sake of global marine
environment covering specially Chinese territory waters, MOC initiated in October 1991,
the Ship Waste Disposal Project with funding of GEF and loans from the World Bank so
as to fulfill conventions set by IMO. -The project was undertaken in six ports where the
Bank has already financed in the port development projects, S-BOMTA and Environment
Monitoring Center (EMC) of MOC with the objective of reducing coastal and harbor
pollution, through provision of waste reception and treatment facilities, development and
implementation of four policy study items consisting of Waste Tracking System Study,
Oil Spill Contingency Plan Cost-recovery and Tariff Study and the Treatment of
Chemically Contaminated Waters Study.
1.3   Department in charge of project organization
The Planning Department, Ministry of Communications
1.4   Project implementation mechanism
The port authorities of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou;
Shanghai BOMTA and EMC of MOC.
1.5   The project was officially approved on 2 July, 1992.



- 54 -                      Appendix B
1.6   Source of funds
GEF USD 30,000,000
World Bank USD 15,000,000
Local RMB 175,150,000
1.7   Project financing
Table 1 - Flow of Funds
Foreign (USD '000)         Local
GEF       Loans    Subtotal (RMB '000)
A. Facilities                         27,500     15,000     42,500    174,061
1. Dalian                            1,730       840      2,570      4,997
2. Tianjin                           4,230      2,220     6,450      21,210
3. Shanghai                          6,000        ---     6,000      15,619
4. Shanghai- BOMTA                   4,310      6,230     10,540     84,145
5. Ningbo                            3,830      1,980     5,810       9,003
6. Xiamen                            2,890      1,480     4,370       5,863
7. Guangzhou                         4,510      2,250     6,760      33,224
B. Environmental Monitoring Center      1,770        ---     1,770      1,090
C. Technical Assistance and Studies      730         ---      730
1. Oil Spill Response Plan            290         ---       290
2. Chemically Contaminated Water      250         ---       250
3. Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port  30        ---        30
4. Cost recovery and tariff/fee        100        ---       100
5. Marine ecosystem                    60         ---        60
Grand total                      30,000     15,000     45,000    175,150
2.    Project implementation
2.1   Project organization and management
The Planning Department of MOC was to organize the project coordination and
management.
2.2    Construction of facility components under the project
2.2.1 Facility components of the project



- 55 -                    Appendix B
2.2.1.1 Oily waste water reception and treatment system (MARPOL, Annex 1)
Under the project, 7 facilities of newly-built and refurbished to receive, treat and process
waters from oil-contaminated ballast, bilge/engine rooms and tank wash have been
completed and 6 new barges with facility to receive and process oil waters have been
provided.
2.2.1.2 Reception and disposal system for chemically-contaminated water (MARPOL,
Annex 2)
In addition to upgrading one facility by using advanced technique, 4 new facilities to
receive and process chemically-contaminated waste water from ships have been
completed.
2.2.1.3 Reception and treatment facilities for sanitary sewage (MARPOL, Annex 4)
The facilities constructed in the projected ports include 4 new sewage treatment plants
and 1 refurbished plant. Means of transport for transferring sewage waters off loaded
from ship to the sewage center have been purchased.
2.2 1.4 Reception and treatment facilities for garbage or solid wastes (MARPOL, Annex
5)
4 garbage reception and treatment plants and 7 incinerators with provisions of
barges/trucks for garbage collection have been built.
2.2.1.5 Environmental monitoring equipment
Laboratory equipment and 45 sets of large analytical instrumentation consisting of
Atomic Absorption Spectrometer, Gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer, Gas
chromatograph,  Spectrofluorescence  spectrometer,  Fourier-transform   infrared
spectrometer and UV-visible spectrometer have been provided for the six ports and EMC
of MOC.
2.2.2 Procurement
In the light of the guidelines for procurement set by the World Bank, MOC authorized the
International Trading Company of China National Technical Import and Export
Corporation as the agent for the purpose of procurement. Most facilities under the project
were procured through International Competitive Bidding, while on the other hand, a few
number of minor components as well as all civil works concerned were performed by
ways of direct shopping and Local Competitive Bidding. All procurements under the
project have been completed and equipment installed are gradually put into operation.



- 56 -                    Appendix B
2.3  Implementation of study teams and technical assistance
MOC chose the competent research institute to fulfill the study components mentioned
above through local competitive bidding.
2.3.1 Oil spill contingency planning study
The purpose of this study was to protect environment and resources in the port area and to
prevent oil pollution damage from ships, oil terminals and oil facilities on shore. China
Academy of Transportation Sciences of MOC undertook this study. A generic port oil
spill contingency planning model and the oil spill contingency plan for the six ports were
developed upon study.
2.3.2 Chemically contaminated water treatment study
This study was aimed at raising the ports' technical level with relation to the reception
and treatment of bulk chemically contaminated water and resolving the problem that
effluent discharge was below set standards. The study was undertaken by the Xi'an
Highway Transportation University. The university has designated the effluent criteria for
the chemical substances contaminating the ballast, bilge and wash waters in accordance
with international conventions and Chinese laws and has finished the design of treatment
study to handle best the different types and quantities of chemicals for the ports in view
of the chemical cargoes shipment situations in the local ports.
2.3.3 Ship waste tracking study
The objective of the study was to help to conduct effective supervision and tracking over
the quantities of wastes retained on the ship so as to prevent wastes discharge from ships
during voyage. This study was jointly undertaken by China Communication Planning &
Design Institute for Marine Transportation and Tianjin Research Institute for Waterway
Engineering. Under the study, the system comprising of ship waste tracking and
information processing was established at each of the six ports with the headquarters
stationed in EMC of MOC. Ninety-one units of computers and supplementary
instruments were equipped and the network software has also been completed.
2.3.4 Cost-recovery and tariff/fee study
The objective of the study was both to settle the inadequate cost accountings presently
used for the waste reception and treatment facilities that were under severe deficit due to
low service charge and to establish the rational tariff structure that would ensure normal
operation of the new facility. This study was executed by domestic consultants. New
tariff standards for ship waste reception and treatment services for the ports have been
drawn upon the study.



- 57 -                     Appendix B
2.3.5 Technical assistance to Xiamen Port
The expert hired for technical assistance has worked out a design for the organization of
Environment Protection Bureau for the port in view of a particular situation in Xiamen
Port.
2.3.6 Large Marine Ecosystem activity
This activity was undertaken by SOA.
3.    Training and visits
During project implementation, varied types of technical training were held to enhance
the abilities of the staff engaging in environmental protection affairs. The training was
executed on these fields including the technique currently used in oil waste water
treatment, chemically contaminated water treatment, operation of testing instruments,
promulgation of MARPOL conventions, ship waste tracking and oil spill contingency
planning, etc. The number of staff trained was up to 540. The detailed number of staff
trained are given below:
Number of staff trained
Table 2 - Training
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
Overseas Training
MARPOL                        18       13       5       8               44
Oil Spill                     20       4                                24
Tracking                                        5                        5
LME
Chemical                       6       2                                 8
Cost & Tariff
Oily Waste                            13        6                       19
Monitoring                                     14       5       6       25
Others                         5       14       9      17               45
Total                       49      46      39       30       6     170
Domestic Training
MARPOL
Oil Spill                             76                      102      178
Tracking                                       58              61      119
LME
Chemical                                                4                4
Cost & Tariff
Oily Waste                                      8      28               36
Monitoring                                      7      29       2       38
Others                                  1       3                        4
Total                               77      76      61      165     379



- 58 -                     Appendix B
4.    Evaluation of the Project
4.1   It was very essential to implement the Ship Waste Disposal Project in order to
improve the environmental conservation at China's coastal sea and adjacent international
waters by reducing pollution from ships. This project is successfully constructed. The
establishing of this project will be of great significance to the growth of China's marine
freight and the prevention of ships waste pollution around Chinese territory waters.
4.2   This project became effective and was launched in October 1991 and
accomplished completely on time at end-June 1997. The facility constructed under the
project has increased the wastes processing capacity for the six ports which include: the
oil water treatment capacity 4,340,000 tons per year, chemically contaminated wastewater
treatment capacity 368,000 tons annually, shipboard sewage water disposing capacity
440,000 tons per year, and the garbage reception and disposal capacity 20,000 tons
yearly. Due to the increases of capacity, the pollution around China's coastal waters and
the adjacent international waters might be significantly reduced which would help to
improve and protect the marine ecosystem environment.
4.3   Under the Oil Spill Contingency Planning study, the Generic port oil spill
contingency planning model and separate plans for each of the six ports have been
provided. The oil spill response exercise was held in principle of the plan. This indicates
that the study can furnish an operative model concerning oil spill accident caused on
coastal waters and would be of instructive significance to international oil spill response
study and handling practice. The model can be best applied by other major ports in China
as the basis to develop their oil spill response plans.
4.4   The treatment of chemically-contaminated wastewater study was carried out with
reference to the international conventions and the factors that the chemically-
contaminated waters generated in the ports during cargo handling were uncertain in
volume with different chemical substance. Advanced techniques in the world has been
considered in the study. The new treatment process with SDR-COR system was designed,
which has been successfully used in ports and has reached the international level.
4.5   The physical interport ship waste tracking system was built with the provisions of
computer automatic management facility and modern long-distance communication
network technique. When putting into operation, this system can provide reliable
technical assurance for putting into effect the international conventions and effective
controls over ship wastes. After trial operation and upon slight modification, this system
can be extended to other ports in China. This ship waste tracking system would be much
meaningful to other countries and regions in respect of the prevention of waste discharge
from ships.
4.6   The cost-recovery and tariff study was undertaken by Environmental Monitoring
Center (EMC) of MOC in terms of establishing a costing and tariff system for waste
reception and disposal services. The unified tariff standard that was concluded at the
arithmetic means of direct costs plus 5% profit is a practical tariff standard at present. The



-59 -                      Appendix B
conclusions may be of assistance in maintaining sustainable development and operation
of all waste reception and treatment facilities.
4.7   During project execution, visits and training were organized to improve the
techniques presently used in environmental protections and the management's capability
regarding technical management in the ports. Staffs up to 549 persons have participated
in training held both at home or abroad. For purpose of training, the combined method
"goes abroad to visit and invite experts home for training", has been utilized. Through
visits and training, staff of each entity concerned have more understanding on the current
development of ship waste reception and treatment around the world, opened their views
so that these staffs' ability concerned new technique application and technical
management were enhanced. All of this would lay sound foundation for ports staff to
operate best the facilities.
4.8   Advanced reliable monitoring instruments and laboratory equipment have been
installed at the six ports, S-BOMTA and EMC of MOC under the construction of the
Ship Waste Disposal Project, which would provide the scientific means for marine
ecosystem conservation and prevention of pollution from ships. The application of these
facilities would effectively strengthen the ports' capacity in performing ship wastes
monitoring and tests.
4.9   During project implementation, the officers of each mission from the World Bank
always worked in the rigorous style of work and in the spirit of high sense of
responsibility. The project supervision staff usually went deep into the site for inspection
and timely settled the complicated problems arising from or related to project
implementation. This efficiently ensured the quality and progress of the project.
4.10 MOC has attached great importance to the project implementation and has
undertaken a lot of project arrangements and coordination with respect to different cases.
All entities involved in the project have given their full cooperation during project
execution so that this project could be successfully completed.
Findings and Proposal
5.1   Because there were more than ten entities involved in the project, it was very
essential to undertake general coordination by the competent department of MOC. This is
a valuable experience that has benefited the timing completion of the project.
5.2   Each specification related to the facility to be purchased under the project was
generally discussed and reviewed by experts arranged by MOC. In so doing, the technical
requirements from respective ports could be unified at a high parameter base, which is
helpful to elect facility, contractor awards and obtain high quality equipment with
reasonable prices. Also, the equipment maintenance and upgrading may be ensured with
ease and the utilization ratio of machines can be raised.



- 60 -                    Appendix B
5.3   To coordinate all the overseas and domestic visits and training under such a major
project was necessary for learning advanced techniques and managing experience, which
may expeditiously enhance staff capability for technical management, and this is
advantageous to the sustainable development of environmental protection among the
communication field.
5.4   The procurement for minor component or small quantity of equipment might be
operated through direct shopping rather than ICB. It is suggested that volume of funds for
direct shopping should be augmented. In this case, except that the quality of facility will
be ensured, the duration for procurement may be lessened.



- 61 -               Appendix C
APPENDIX C: MAP



r          6.                            ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~FEDERAT\
UZBEJSTA                                               MONGOLIA
KYRGYZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1
REPBCCHiNA                                                          S                                O iCE4N
a  SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT                  .1:                                                            -;:
5:         ;, ~~NIngbo   PROJECT poRTS         I;                                Guangzhou    .............................;1,.-.- .  :t
IKL AN----TERAN       ATNA  BV
CHINA ~ ~ ~~~~~~rr~?PIIPIE
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT      HILNDE   PX,
_____________PROJECT__PORTS



-63 -                                 ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
TABLE 1A: DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY-INCOME STATEMENT
(Y'OOO)
1988   1989   1990    1991   1992         1993      1994      1995      1996
Traffic ('000 ton)
Whole Port              48,526  50,918  49,523   54,720  59,092    59,590    62,118    64,168    64,274
Port Authority (DPA)    43,982  46,167  45,335   49,587  52,065    52,878    51,187    51,020    49,546
Of which: Containers       942   1,221   1,368    1,781   2,121    2,347     2,824      3,438     3,867
Revenue
Loadinglunloading      245,826 289,230 370,978  473,704 621,548   791,310   825,810   711,270   620,853
Storage                 36,539  39,451  46,937   55,507  45,372    58,990    57,038    51,367    49,827
Other                   68,885  67,862  84,952  113,207 131,038   205,043   319,644   365,663   395,960
Marketing                8,019  11,892   9,180   13,264  13,397    17,730     7,355    28,174    22,751
Subtotal               359,269 408,435 512,047  655,682 811,355  1,073,073  1,209,847  1,156,474  1,089,391
Less: Operating tax     12,402  14,411  17,851   23,242  28,037    52,543    37,600    35,195    32,706
Total Net Revenue      346,867 394,024 494,196  632,440 783,318  1,020,530  1,172,247  1,121,279  1,056,685
Operating Costs /a
Loading/unloading       73,216 106,124 139,103  226,296 299,082   445,261   506,298   437,438   414,021
Storage                 15,395  24,693  33,085   49,673  62,954    75,019    76,339    76,293    81,383
Other                   33,660  37,190  53,817   89,871 126,119   270,583   277,187   322,376   344,360
Marketing                6,799  10,129   8,519   11,742  1!,812    18,830     6,735    26,564    20,264
Total Operating Costs   129,070 178,136 234,524  377,582 499,967   809,693   866,559   862,671   860,028
Operating Profit           217,797 215,888 259,672  254,858 283,351   210,837   305,688   258,608   196,657
Investment profits                                                        -    47,291    61,382    38,257
Nonoperating Income           145   3,187    757    8,729   2,346    43,737      5,775    27,852    77,092
Nonoperating Expenses       17,215  18,917  30,737   33,486  38,878    41,869    27,933    20,324    20,704
Other Expenses-wage, admin.    3,109   5,078   5,502    6,700  14,427     --  149,689   144,661   157,261
Finance charges             2,174   2,146  17,080    2,000   2,048    12,560  (27,017)      362   113,717
Profit Before Taxes         195,444 192,934 207,110  221,401 230,344   200,145   208,149   182,495    20,324
Income tax                  --      --      .-      ..      ..        ..         ..
Other taxes                         --         -             --       --   30,964    17,571       2,251
Payments to State        5,273   5,273   5,273    3,564   3,564    3,564    20,000    20,000         --
Net Profit after Taxes      190,171 187,661 201,837  217,837 226,780   196,581   157,185   144,924    18,073
La Includes depreciation.
Source: DPA.



- 64 -                                  ANNEX I
TABLE lB: DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY-SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y'000)
1988     1989     1990    1991      1992      1993      1994     1995    1996
Sources
Net profit                190,171   187,661  201,837 217,837  226,780  196,581    157,185   144,924    18,07
Depreciation               20,306   59,939    6,842  57,216  475,984   190,856    208,513   217,939   66,14
State contribution             --       --        --      --       --       --    25,000   40,000   40,00
Borrowing:       - IBRD    25,434   14,926   54,772  167,306  149,130   114,712    25,412       --    4,66
- Local    59,445    19,026    15,793  34,151    26,439    16,270    154,290   81,000   155,00
Other                          --       --        --      --       --       --         --        --  400,00
Total Sources            295,356  281,552  279,24  476,510  878,333  518,419    570,400  483,863  683,87
Applications
Capital expenditure        99,734  100,590  158,835 231,402  365,979  678,658    546,781   322,957   136,69
Special fund expenditure  151,084   81,621   49,026 215,369  423,977        --         -         --       -
Loan repayment:   - IBRD       --       --        --      --       --       --         --   52,953   105,90
- Local    8,482   34,815   16,429  31,517   30,738   22,293      22,483    14,269   176,66
Change wlcapital           (7,296)  47,364   19,934  (32,958)  31,137  (281,391)  (106,473) 233,668   23,17
Total Applications       252,004  264,390  244,224 445,330  851,831   419,560   462,791   623,847  442,44
Net Funds Flow                  43,352   17,162   35,020  31,180   26,502   98,859    107,609  (139,984) 241,43
Opening Balance                 35,024   78,376   95,538 130,558  161,738  188,240    287,099  394,708   254,72
Closing Balance                 78,376   95,538  130,558 161,738  188,240  287,099   394,708  254,724  496,16
Source: DPA.



- 65 -                                ANNEX 1
TABLE lc: DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY-BALANCE SHEET
(Y'OOO)
1988    1989    1990    1991       1992     1993      1994      1995     1996
ASSETS
Fixed assets
At cost              922,774 1,249,850 1,409,174 1,555,317 2,938,944 3,720,830 4,221,416 4,400,600 6,228,062
Less: depreciation   194,976  254,915  261,757  318,973  794,957  985,813 1,194,326 1,412,265 1,478,408
Subtotal         727,798  994,935 1,147,417 1,236,344 2,143,987 2,735,017 3,027,090 2,988,335 4,749,654
Construction-in-progress    -                                      196,420   168,725   188,262   310,332
Current assets
Inventory             21,300   24,163   24,171   29,884   39,964    34,408    36,079    35,200    45,766
Receivables & others    50,423  102,147  114,253   54,705  150,945   505,490   576,122   437,169   506,564
Cash                  78,376   95,538  130,558  161,738  188,240  287,099   394,708   254,724   496,162
Subtotal         150,099  221,848  268,982  246,327  379,149   826,997 1,006,909   727,093 1,048,492
Special fund assets    224,156  235,977  179,830  281,986  241,258       --        --        -        --
Long term investment        --       -         -       --       --  120,600   176,481   174,343   896,781
Other assets /a             --       --       --      --        --  962,893 1,357,528 1,637,092 1,423,262
Total Assets          1,102,053 1,452,760 1,596,229 1,764,657 2,764,394 4,841,927 5,736,733 5,715,125 8,428,521
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
State funds-Contributed    613,956  613,956  613,956  613,956  613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956
Internal funds for port
development           280,230  548,954  700,243  852,490 1,796,752 2,733,202 2,169,216 2,380,433 5,432,150
L/Tloans:    -IBRD       10,000   82,000   82,000  114,290   97,118   373,875   679,155   673,777   668,399
- Local     9,347   12,107   12,107   16,875   14,339  248,285 1,223,021  1,369,074   979,344
Current liabs.          86,260   93,483   85,663   64,786  139,969  770,349   949,125   575,625   632,412
Special funds          102,260  102,260  102,260  102,260  102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260
Total Lia. & Equity    1,102,053 1,452,760 1,596,229 1,764,657 2,764,394 4,841,927 5,736,733 5,715,125 8,428,521
/a Including intangible, deferred and other assets.
Source: DPA.



- 66 -                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 2A: TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY-INCOME STATEMENT
(Y'OOO)
1988     1989     1990     1991    1992      1993      1994      1995     1996
Traffic:
Whole port ('000 ton)          21,094   24,369   20,633   23,776  29,286   37,192   46,521    57,867    61,883
Port authority ('000 ton)      20,316   23,344   19,417   22,458  27,678   34,591    48,502    54,974     55,993
Of which: containers ('000 teu)   266.     265.     286.     339.    393.     481.      630.8     702.1      822.
Revenue
Loading/unloading             199,990  242,446  236,031  297,300 438,140  550,022   728,094   891,452  1,142,527
Storage                        25,595   43,395   32,479   23,062  39,318   49,358    65,338    79,997     62,760
Sales                          18,141    18,447   17,289   19,871  17,028   21,376    28,297    34,646        --
Other                          69,374  100,414   92,507  123,681  172,496  216,544   286,650   350,964    148,786
Subtotal                      313,100  404,702  378,306  463,914 666,982  837,300  1,108,379  1,357,059  1,354,073
Less: operating tax           (10,771)  (14,219)  (13,258)  (15,815) (22,709)  (32.030)  (35,560)  (43,316)   (42.974)
Total- Net Revenue            302,329  390,483  365,048  448,099 644,273  805,270 1,072,819  1,313,743  1,311,099
Expenditure
Loading/unloading              78,869  108,223  113,425  138,795 202,826  192,672  297,848   388,547    463,082
Storage                        16,768   20,505   23,115   27,683  46,323   44,004    68,025    88.739     75,095
Sales                          16,978   18,432   16,592   19,694  16,595   15,764   24,369    31,790          --
Other                          30,786   44,576   47,689   69,452  95,111   90,350   139,670   182,201    150,568
Total operating costs         143,401  191,736  200,821  255,624 360,855  342,790   529,912   691,277   688,745
Operating Profit               158,928  198,747  164,227  192,475 283,418  462,480   542,907   622,466    622,354
Add:  Nonoperating revenue        694    1,242    6,023   15,546  10,708    3,690    6,674    11,714      11,272
Less: Nonoperating expense     (8,489)  (10,126)  (12,054)  (14,698) (20,010)  (13,540)  (22,023)  (28,645)   (32,130)
Other incomes / expenses (net) /a           --       --        --      -- (140,750) (213,095)  (290,479)  (379,889)
Profit Before Tax              151,133  189,863  158,196  193,323 274,116  311,880   314,463   315,056   221,607
Income tax                        --       --       --       --       --       --   93,561    87,576     54,873
Profit After Tax               151,133  189,863  158,196  193,323 274,116  311,880   220,902   227,480    166,734
/s Including administrative overhead, financing charges and other business / investment gain (loss).
Source: Tianjin Port Authority and Bank staff.



- 67 -                                  ANNEX 1
TABLE 2B: TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY-SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y'000)
1988     1989     1990     1991    1992      1993      1994       1995      1996
Sources
Intemal cash generation        151,133   189,863  158,196  193,323 274,116  311,880   220,902   227,480    166,734
Other enterprises                1,463    2,052       --        --               --        --        --         --
Port development fund          110,635   98,788   108,994   87,802  83,292   80,465   111,196    15,779     12,275
World Bank loans:  (1)          17,782       --       --        --      --       --        --        --         --
(11)             --                      194,559    934      344   685,535    99,941      37,420
Otherloans                          --       --       --        --   5,300   199,600   155,159   278,073    428,745
Depreciation                    31,663   37,803   41,346   50,934  75,815   100,590   177,524   269,536    308,338
Sales of fixed assets            1,344    5,425    1,269    3,548  30,875    3,100    15,620    14,003       4,975
Interest incomes                 2,523    4,892    4,400    5,000   5,471        --        --        --         --
Others (net)                     (889)  (13,950)   5,241      714  (4,894)  48,350    86,153   166,879    189,961
Total Sources           315,654  324,873  319,446  535,880 470,909  744,329 1,452,089  1,071,691  1,148,448
Applications
Investments and renewals       175,529   162,686  162,993  453,600 122,102  208,422  1,046,146   537,190    632,027
Funds provided to THCDC        144,162  119,985   178,644  (48,979) 247,084  567,693   299,988    151,707    123,497
Loan repayments   - IBRD         4,707    4,707    5,972   32,329  58,039   60,615    78,588    72,038      72,000
Others           --       --       --        --      --       --  129,994   309,621    155,130
Subtotal       4,707    4,707    5,972   32,329  58,039   60,615   208,582   381,659    227,130
Change in working capital      (13,519)  21,763  (38,654)  57,935  (29,943) (310,592) (180,639)  (44,044)   309,129
Total Applications      310,879  309,141  308,955  494,885 397,282  526,138 1,374,077  1,026,512  1,291,783
Net funds flow                    4,775   15,732   10,491   40,995  73,627  218,191    78,012    45,179   (143,335)
Opening balance                  60,009   64,784   80,516   91,007 132,002  205,629   423,820   501,832    547,011
Closing balance                  64,784   80,516   91,007   132,002 205,629  423,820   501,832   547,011   403,676
Source: Tianjin Port Authority and Bank staff.



- 68 -                                ANNEX 1
TABLE 2c: TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY-BALANCE SHEET
(Y'000)
1988     1989     1990     1991    1992      1993     1994       1995     1996
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
At cost                        4 1,519,713 1,660,095 2,082,066 2,177,236 3,055,930 4,540,464  5,110,603 5,369,696
Less: depreciation        146,322  176,638  212,069  258,341  323,884  809,750   959,314  1,206,775 1,496,982
Subtotat           1,218,134 1,343,075 1,448,026 1,823,725 1,853,352 2,246,180 3,581,150  3,903,828 3,872,714
Other fixed assets /a          --       -        --       --       -- 1,076,850   856,808   909,726 1,348,183
Current Assets
Cash & bank deposits       64,784   80,516   91,007  132,002  205,629  423,820   501,832   547,011  403,676
Accounts receivable        32,355   24,882   15,239   27,290   37,871  297,609   183,468   223,237  475,483
Inventories                24,202   32,200   23,088   25,388   30,774   50,070    51,650    50,248   88,055
Subtotal                  121,341  137,598  129,334  184,680  274,274  771,499   736,950   820,496  967,214
Special Fund Assets         157,475  172,572  183,767  225,294  327,314       --        --        --       --
Long-Term Investments            -        --       --       --       --  211,490   293,751   332,815  438,715
Other Assets /b                  --       --       --       --       --    1,030     2,204     5,075    6,489
Total Assets       1,496,950 1,653,245 1,761,127 2,233,699 2,454,940 4,307,049 5,470,863  5,971,940 6,633,315
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current liabilities         47,216   25,978   45,877    2,293   48,203  637,829   705,907   788,318  769,242
Long-term debt              51,930   47,363   43,437  232,864  182,875 1,024,230  1,256,791  1,1194,302 1,566,888
Equity                    1,166,204 1,295,712 1,416,525 1,616,524 1,696,377 2,644,990 3,508,165  3,989,320 4,297,185
Special funds              231,600  284,192  255,288  382,018  527,485       --        --        --       --
Total Liabilities & Equity    1,496,950 1,653,245 1,761,127 2,233,699 2,454,940 4,307,049 5,470,863  5,971,940 6,633,315
La Including construction in progress and disposal assets.
/b Including intangible and deferred assets.
Source: Tianjin Port Authority and Bank staff.



-69 -                                 ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A: SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY-INCOME STATEMENT
(Y million)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993        1994      1995      1996
Traffic ('000 ton)
Whole port            133,292  146,044  139,590  146,788  162,968  175,956   165,809   165,672   164,018
Port authority        102,380  104,106   96,414   97,328  104,765  112,641    98,924    95,090    94,097
Of which:
Container (in '000 ton)  2,748    2,774    4,455    6,105    7,156    8,474    10,581    13,889    17,851
Container (in '000 teu)  313     354      456      577      730      934     1,199     1,527     1,971
Revenue
Loading/unloading      350.92   367.28   420.92   498.01   675.01  1,241.54   1,163.90   1,350.40  1,039.75
Storage                 99.25   137.48   149.26   164.01   140.23   257.92    241.79    280.53    121.60
Other                  255.94   296.91   358.61   472.70   454.08   835.18    782.95    908.41   1,236.78
Marketing               50.41   102.21    74.72    74.39   219.35   403.45    378.23    438.84    363.73
Subtotal               756.52   903.88  1,003.51  1,209.11  1,488.67 2,738.09  2,566.87  2,978.18  2,761.86
Operating Taxes
Loading/unloading       11.26    11.80    13.51    15.99    21.67    36.54    35.65     39.21     34.11
Storage                  5.31     7.35     7.99     8.78    7.50    12.65     12.34     13.57      6.67
Other                    8.09     9.65    10.61    12.76    15.10    25.46    24.84     27.32     38.64
Marketing                1.44     2.27     1.26     1.45    2.35     3.96      3.87      4.26      4.47
Total Operating tax     26.10    31.07    33.36    38.97    46.62    78.61    76.70     84.36     83.89
Net Sales
Loading/unloading      339.66   355.48   407.41   482.03   653.34  1,205.00   1,128.25   1,311.19   1,005.64
Storage                 93.94   130.13   141.27   155.24   132.73   245.27    229.45    266.96    114.93
Other                  247.85   287.26   348.01   459.94   438.98   809.72    758.11    881.09  1,198.14
Marketing               48.97    99.94    73.46    72.94   217.00   399.49    374.36    434.58    359.26
Total Net Sales        730.42   872.81   970.15  1,170.14 1,442.05 2,659.48   2,490.17  2,893.82  2,677.97
Operating Costs
Loading/unloading      173.17   225.44   260.74   347.68   483.92   842.21    816.20    975.50    658.02
Storage                 20.99    25.32    30.50    43.38    56.03    97.51    94.50    112.94     73.67
Other                  125.61   168.63   229.63   317.86   283.64   493.64    478.39    571.76    813.11
Marketing               43.40    98.30    73.54    72.49   214.32   373.01    361.49    432.05    324.29
Total Operating Costs    363.17   517.69   594.41   781.40 1,037.91  1,806.37   1,750.58  2,092.25  1,869.09
Operating Profit
Loading/unloading      166.49   130.04   146.67   134.35   169.42   362.79    312.05    335.69    347.62
Storage                 72.95   104.81   110.78   111.85    76.70   147.76    134.95    154.02    41.26
Other                  122.24   118.63   118.37   142.09   155.34   316.08    279.72    309.33    385.03
Marketing                5.57     1.64   (0.08)    0.45     2.68    26.48     12.87      2.53     34.97
Total Operating Profit   367.25   355.12   375.74   388.74   404.14   853.11    739.59    801.57    808.88
Surcharges                  0.24     0.43    0.54     0.73    39.75   449.77    517.07    781.98    835.83
Nonoperating Income         0.53     1.17     0.00    0.00     0.00     4.66     13.14     43.12    28.08
Nonoperating Expenses      38.35    54.61    65.24    78.80    93.65    90.42    49.35     57.73     82.65
Other Income (expenditure)    (9.27)   (5.71)    4.89  5.28    7.67    15.08    120.72    245.44    262.78
Profit Before Taxes       319.92   295.54   314.85   314.49   278.41   332.66    307.03    250.42    181.26
Income Tax              51.55    51.55    51.55    51.55    51.55    35.00    35.00     35.00     59.82
Adjustmnent Taxes          --       --       --      --       --       --        --        --        --
Other Payments to State    21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00             --        -- --
Tax credit to State        --       --       --      --       --   76.00    130.00    130.00         --
Net Profit after Taxes    247.37   222.99   242.30   241.94   205.86   221.66    142.03   85A2    121.44



- 70 -                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 3B: SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY-SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y million)
1988    1989     1990     1991     1992     1993      1994      1995      1996
Sources
Net profit             247.37  222.99   242.30   241.94   205.86   221.66    142.03      85.42    121.44
Depreciation            42.76   31.77    50.66    98.30   221.52   152.00    165.00    244.57    237.00
State contribution       --      --       --       --       --      76.00    130.00    130.00    116.60
Borrowing:
Foreign   - IBRD      5.38   30.00    88.69   208.17    15.00     0.00    358.00    202.00    366.00
- Others    9.23   --        --       --       --      70.00      78.00     41.00      --
Local                98.10    -        -        -        --     331.00    272.00      35.00    336.00
Others La                --     42.20    --        --       --       --        --        --         --
Total Sources         402.84  326.96   381.65   548.41   442.38   850.66   1,145.03    737.99   1,177.04
Applications
Capital expenditure     128.75   29.90   352.14   355.00   383.76   900.15    868.96    931.98   1,242.46
Net Payments to State    --      --       -         -       --       --        --        --         --
Special find expenditure   212.09   36.80    41.80    41.73    31.55    --     --        --         --
Loan repayment:
Foreign  -IBRD        7.00    6.52     0.84     0.84    15.67    27.00     39.00      19.00     16.50
-Others     55.26   --       --       --       --        7.00     29.00     23.00       8.00
Local                 7.08    2.50    --       --        -       96.00    413.00       6.00      -
Change w/capital        (14.30) 195.61    40.50    38.97  (105.51) (490.31)  (289.22)  (101.77)  (195.50)
Total Applications    395.88  271.33   435.28   436.54   325A7   539.84   1,060.74    878.21   1,071.46
Net Funds Flow              6.96   55.63   (53.63)  111.87   116.91   310.82     84.29   (140.22)   105.58
Opening Balance         143.48  150.44   206.07   152.44   264.31   381.22    692.04    776.33    636.11
ClosingBalance          150.44  206.07   152.44   264.31   381.22   692.04    776.33    636.11    741.69
La Harbor due and other incomes.



-71-                                 ANNEX 1
TABLE 3c: SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY-BALANCE SHEET
(Y million)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993       1994      1995      1996
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
At cost          1,379.99 1,668.14 2,226.84 2,945.67 3,182.77 3,028.20 3,466.96  4,620.38   5,558.12
Less: depreciation    357.37   389.14   439.80   538.10   759.62   754.19   859.58  1,104.15   1,341.58
Net fixed assets    1,022.62 1,279.00 1,787.04 2,407.57 2,423.15 2,274.01 2,607.38  3,516.23  4,216.54
Otherfixed assets /a   --   --       --      --       --   1,047.35  1,316.72  1,724.61   1,573.36
Current Assets
Inventory          70.65    95.56   107.93   117.05   164.03   318.92   546.85    646.46    609.86
Receivable        114.58   181.27   282.39   261.79   509.01   626.78   808.59    948.21    997.68
Cash              150.44   206.07   152.44   264.31   381.22   692.04   776.33    636.11    741.69
Subtotal           335.67   482.90   542.76   643.15 1,054.26 1,637.74 2,131.77  2,230.78  2,349.23
Special fund Assets   402.90   278.07   285.81   319.54   764.06   -        --        -         --
Long-Term Investments   --      --       -        --      --   1,254.65  1,371.84  1,478.80  1,659.45
Other Assets /b         --      --       --       -        --      --       1.03      7.64     16.55
Total Assets      1,761.19 2,039.97 2,615.61 3,370.26 4,241.47 6,213.75 7,428.74  8,958.06  9,815.13
Liabilities & Equity
State funds-Equity    914.70  1,138.31  1,446.40 2,011.24  1,934.39 3,935.26 4,046.29  4,671.75  4,989.11
Internal funds for
port development      79.95    35.76   103.01   124.53   126.29   -       --        -         --
L/T loans:
Foreign  -IBRD     108.03    48.16    35.73    25.39   129.15   416.33   437.00    620.40  1,232.00
-Others    --       3.79    20.60    --        1.55    --      --        --        --
Local               --      196.86   381.86   550.80   868.34   519.84   904.17   1,283.63   1,003.37
Subtotal           108.03   248.81   438.19   576.19   999.04   936.17 1,341.17  1,904.03  2,235.37
Currentliabs.         261.11   157.10   230.09   179.64   579.35  1,342.32 2,041.28  2,382.28  2,590.65
Special funds         397.40   459.99   397.92   478.66   602.40    --      --       --        --
Total Lia. & Equity  1,761.19 2,039.97 2,615.61 3,370.26 4,241.47 6,213.75 7,428.74  8,958.06  9,815.13
/a Including construction-in-progress and disposal assets.
Lb Including intangible and deferred assets.



- 72 -                                   ANNEX I
TABLE 4A: NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY-INCOME STATEMENT
(Y'000)
1988    1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994     1995       1996
Traffic ('000 ton)
Whole port                  20,020  22,098    25,535    33,899    43,669    53,210    58,498    68,000   76,388
Port authority              15,687  17,993    20,343    27,121    34,592    42,945    47,054    55,000   61,198
Revenue
Loading/unloading           59,012  64,219    87,382   122,347   203,229   321,492   416,473   434,240    474,376
Storage                     21,032  26,113    29,540    39,124    45,182    47,069    40,911    42,656   40,042
Other                       16,947  20,230    31,612    31,569    41,612    52,191    73,706    76,850    124,879
Marketing                     533      920      615       638     1,206   43,453    91,768    95,683    109,893
Subtotal                    97,524 111,482   149,149   193,678   291,229   464,205   622,858   649,429    749,190
Operating Taxes
Loading/unloading            1,922   2,098     2,797     3,927    6,524    10,582    13,799    14,280    15,726
Storage                      1,135   1,420     1,580     2,093    2,417     2,579     2,259    2,338      2,212
Other                         541     664      1,018     1,001    1,313     1,681     2,556    2,645      4,126
Marketing                      10      26        10         8        18        --        --       --      3,703
Total Operating tax          3,608   4,208     5,405     7,029    10,272    14,842    18,614    19,263   25,767
Net Sales
Loading/unloading           57,090  62,121    84,585   118,420   196,705   310,910   402,674   419,960    458,650
Storage                     19,897  24,693    27,960    37,031    42,765    44,490    38,652    40,318   37,830
Other                       16,406  19,566    30,594    30,568    40,299    50,510    71,150    74,205    120,753
Marketing                     523      894      605       630     1,188   43,453    91,768    95,683    106,190
Total Net Sales             93,916 107,274   143,744   186,649   280,957   449,363   604,244   630,166    723,423
Operating Costs
Loading/unloading           44,672  50,382    71,929   101,747   170,004   205,290   193,248   194,583    235,636
Storage                      5,848   6,115     6,708    14,582    12,686    29,750    16,445    16,559   23,807
Other                       11,047  13,661    17,610    14,514    28,506    52,000    45,305    45,618   80,127
Marketing                     490     762       622       635     1,110   36,201   118,306   119,123    123,931
Total Operating Costs       62,057  70,920    96,869   131,478  212,306   323,241   373,304   375,883    463,501
Operating Profit
Loading/unloading           12,418  11,739    12,656    16,673    26,701   105,620   209,426   225,377    223,014
Storage                     14,049  18,578    21,252    22,449    30,079    14,740    22,207    23,759   14,023
Other                        5,359   5,905    12,984    16,054    11,793    (1,490)   25,845    28,587   40,626
Marketing                      33      132      (17)        (5)      78     7,252   (26,538)  (23,440)   (17,741)
Total Operating Profit      31,859  36,354    46,875    55,171    68,651   126,122   230,940   254,283    259,922
Surcharges                   4,068   9,350        --       --        --   59,753   192,298   195,930    237,454
Nonoperatinglncome            753   1,015      2,612     1,401    2,416     4,132     1,820    4,540      9,719
Nonoperating Expenses        3,482   4,384    12,021     7,467    9,613    18,539    12,626    51,929    16,172
Otherexpenses/(income)       2,477   3,448     3,956     8,445    13,019    (3,137)  (33,195)  (11,921)   (14,785)
Profit Before Taxes            22,585  20,187    33,510    40,660    48,435    55,099    61,031    22,885   30,800
Income Tax                   5,270   5,270     5,270     5,270    5,270     6,000     6,000     6,000     6,000
Other Taxes                  1,000   1,059     4,000     4,000    4,000     4,000        --       --         -
Net Profit after Taxes         16,315  13,858    24,240    31,390    39,165    45,099    55,031    16,885   24,800
Source: NPA and the Bank.



- 73 -                                  ANNEX 1
TABLE 4B: NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY-SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y'OOO)
1988    1989     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995       1996
Sources
Profit before taxes        22,585  20,187    33,510    40,660   48,435   55,099    61,031    22,885    30,800
Depreciation               20,254  20,740    24,403    43,951    70,584   119,728   158,531    90,000    116,506
State funds                    --  32,970    62,455    97,236  224,796  (327,513)   77,655       --         --
Other government contribution   9,250   --   32,839    29,408   25,993   107,870    11,639       --         --
Borrowing  -IBRD               --      --        --   42,698   120,815    10,736    55,212   26,736      8,659
-Local          41,680  11,120    10,976   111,770   153,733  314,451   138,217    15,704    99,368
Total Sources             93,769  85,017   164,183   365,723  644,356   280,371   502,285  155,325   255,333
Applications
Payments to the State:
Income tax               5,270   5,270     5,270     5,270    5,270    6,000      6,000    6,000     6,000
Other                    1,000   1,059    4,000      4,000    4,000    4,000         --       --         --
Capital expenditures       48,960  44,090     3,837   152,280  212,900   108,550   354,750   149,356    50,656
Special fund expenditure    6,130       --  819,354  (618,211)  229,871      --         -
Loan repayments    - IBRD      --      --        --   11,829     8,433    9,166    17,991    27,399    25,697
-Local  11,932   4,470    22,531    13,418   37,564    31,874    66,772   27,470    83,919
Port development funds      3,000   3,428  (617,527)  785,203   165,355      --        --        --         --
Change w/capital           (62,567)  3,767   (12,398)    8,928   3,946  (137,473)   39,291   (34,444)  (178,783)
Total Applications        13,725  62,084  225,067   362,717  667,339    22,117   484,804  175,781    (12,511)
Net Funds Flow                 80,044  22,933   (60,884)    3,006  (22,983)  258,254    17,481   (20,456)   267,844
Opening Balance            32,796 112,840   135,773    74,889   77,895    54,912   313,166  330,647    310,191
Closing Balance           112,840 135,773    74,889    77,895    54,912   313,166   330,647  310,191    578,035
Source: NPA and the Bank.



- 74 -                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 4C: NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY-BALANCE SHEET
(Y'OOO)
1988    1989      1990      1991      1992     1993       1994     1995       1996
ASSETS
Fixed assets
At cost                   601,482 669,026   697,266   892,496 1,175,981 1,302,795  1,386,877 1,895,401  2,330,803
Less: depreciation         70,635  87,650   112,053   156,003   226,588   346,316   504,847   766,686    883,192
Sutbtotal                530,847 581,376   585,213   736,493   949,393   956,479   882,030 1,128,715  1,447,611
Other Fixed Assets/a           -        -                                 212,219   349,913   469,864    279,908
Current assets
Inventory                   8,325   9,853     7,867      8,365    12,884    21,342    27,005    39,701    48,462
Receivables                19,535  24,372    20,620    29,546    65,796   243,145   594,119   786,274    865,323
Cash                      112,840 135,773    74,889    77,895    54,912   313,166   330,647   310,191    578,035
Subtotal                 140,700 169,998   103,376   115,806   133,592   577,653   951,771 1,136,166  1,491,820
Special Fund Assets         32,296  40,679   162,597   232,975   462,846        -          -        --         -
Long-Term Investments           -        -         --       --        --  100,541   178,994   213,162    279,417
Other Assets L                           -b        -         -        -        132       130       129        128
Total Assets               703,843 792,053   851,186  1,085,274 1,545,831 1,847,024 2,362,838 2,948,036  3,498,884
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
State funds-Contributed    421,486 477,059   490,958   516,102   547,055   701,675   779,330 1,062,435  1,139,503
Intemal funds for port
development                 4,008   3,626     5,199    11,728    36,721        -         -         --
L/T liabs and loans        109,361  105,032    93,477   223,304   397,249   739,396   860,209   923,007  1,130,194
Current liabs.              36,096  38,694    45,354    45,850    82,673   405,953   723,299   962,594  1,229,187
Special funds              132,892  167,642   216,198   288,290   482,133       --        --        --         --
Total Lia. & Equity       703,843 792,053   851,186  1,085,274 1,545,831 1,847,024 2,362,838 2,948,036  3,498,884
/a Including construction-in-progress and disposal assets.
/b Including intangible and deferred assets.
Source: NPA and the Bank.



- 75 -                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 5A: XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY-INCOME STATEMENT
(Y'000)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993         1994      1995      1996
Traffic
Whole port ('000 ton)       4,686    5,126    5,289    5,700    6,479    9,206    11,406    13,139    15,330
Port Authority ('000 ton)   3,951    3,676    3,444    4,136    4,645    6,285   7,883     9,279     8,540
Container ('000 teu)         21.1    27.5    45.3    74.1   105.8   153.6    220.0         309.0    400.0
Revenue
Loading/unloading          21,443   29,987   33,488   42,540   66,983  107,608   141,610   230,605   240,000
Storage                     3,662    6,405    5,411    7,126   13,631   21,898    28,817    46,927    18,740
Other                       9,863    7,698   10,410   22,495   35,634   57,246    75,335   122,680   151,525
Marketing                   4,866    6,023    6,424      --               --        -         -
Subtotal                  39,834   50,113   55,733   72,161  116,248  186,752   245,762   400,212   410,265
Operating Taxes
Loading/unloading            700      980    1,097    1,365    2,150    3,117    3,911     6,839     8,040
Storage                      198      348     295      390      729    1,057     1,326     2,319     1,031
Other                        249      217     292    1,465    2,048    2,968     3,724     6,511     6,599
Marketing                    526      653      700       --      --       -         --        --        --
Total Operating Tax         1,673    2,198    2,384    3,220    4,927    7,142   8,961    15,669    15,670
Net Sales
Loading/unloading         20,743   29,007   32,391   41,175   64,833  104,491   137,699   223,766   231,960
Storage                     3,464    6,057    5,116    6,736   12,902   20,841    27,491    44,608    17,709
Other                       9,614    7,481   10,118   21,030   33,586   54,278    71,611   116,169   144,926
Marketing                   4,340    5,370    5,724      --      --       --        --        --        --
Total Net Sales           38,161   47,915   53,349   68,941  111,321  179,610   236,801   384,543   394,595
Operating Costs
Loading/unloading          15,163   19,043   20,554   23,361   32,170   60,634    79,750   145,456   143,860
Storage                     2,155    4,364    3,279    2,695    6,518   12,285    16,158    29,471    25,000
Other                       4,529    4,835    6,707   11,295   18,884   35,592    46,814    85,383   115,242
Marketing                    814      970    1,015       -        --      --        --        --        --
Total Operating Costs      22,661   29,212   31,555   37,351   57,572  108,511   142,722   260,310   284,102
Operating Profit
Loading/unloading           5,580    9,964   11,837   17,814   32,663   43,857    57,949    78,310    88,100
Storage                     1,309    1,693    1,837    4,041    6,384    8,556    11,333    15,137    (7,291)
Other                       5,085    2,646    3,411    9,735   14,702   18,686    24,797    30,786    29,684
Marketing                   3,526    4,400    4,709      -        --      --        --        -         --
Total Operating Profit     15,500   18,703   21,794   31,590   53,749   71,099    94,079   124,233   110,493
Nonoperating Income              333      567    1,555    1,226    1,556    1,150    5,099     1,597       833
Nonoperating Expenses           1,301    1,681    2,110    2,608    2,998    2,882   1,063     3,896     2,650
Other Expenses (net)             191    1,398    1,233      --       --   9,046    12,179    31,078    24,553
Other Income                       -       --    347         -       --    932       6,180    14,377    23,212
Profit Before Taxes            14,341   16,191   20,353   30,208   52,307   61,253    92,116   105,233   107,335
Income Tax                  2,151    2,429    3,053    4,531    7,846    9,050    13,818    19,748    17,977
Adjustment Taxes               --       -       --       --      --       -         -         --        --
Other payments              5,593       --      -        --      --       --        --        --        --
Net Profit after Taxes         6,597   13,762   17,300   25,677   44,461   52,203    78,298    85,485    89,358



- 76 -                                 ANNEX 1
TABLE 5B: XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY-SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y'OOO)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993         1994      1995      1996
Sources
Net profit                  6,597   13,762   17,300   25,677   44,461   52,203    78,298    85,485    89,358
Depreciation                3,200    3,624    5,039    5,615    6,424   11,476    17,629    53,538    58,682
State contribution             --      --       --       --      --  75,000    27,479    25,811    61,666
Borrowing - IBRD               --      --       --      --      113  120,614   122,703        --        -
- Others            --       --       --      --       -- 141,428   143,878    86,597    26,878
Others                        --       --       --      --       --  15,817   183,371      3,807    18,348
Total Sources               9,797   17,386   22,339   31,292   50,998  416,538   573,358   255,238   254,932
Applications
Capital expenditures       14,219   18,574    (512)  20,639   13,230  296,154   427,587   256,801   118,961
Loanrepayment-IBRD             -       --       --      --       --       -    21,789    12,337    31,156
- Others        -        --      --       --       -        --    3,500        --   10,200
Port development funds     (3,003)   2,828    2,495   17,808   35,188    4,940   105,184    41,042    41,861
Change w/capital           (3,781) (31,151)  (5,217)  (8,901) (48,386)  37,004  (153,807)  (30,720)   41,023
Total Applications          7,435   (9,749)  (3,234)  29,546     32  338,098   404,253   279,460   243,201
Net Funds Flow                 2,362   27,135   25,573    1,746   50,966   78,440   169,105   (24,222)   11,731
Opening Balance            14,586   16,948   44,083   69,656   71,402  122,368   200,808   369,913   345,691
Closing Balance            16,948   44,083   69,656   71,402  122,368  200,808   369,913   345,691   357,422



-77-                                  ANNEX 1
TABLE 5c: XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY-BALANCE SHEET
(Y'OOO)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993        1994      1995      1996
ASSETS
Fixed assets
At cost           155,449  165,559  175,417  185,374 204,553  293,705   498,303  1,027.308  1,044,917
Less: depreciation    12,852   16,582   19,223   23,910  27,550  38,723   108,661   159.799   217,427
Subtotal          142,597  148,977  156,194  161,464  177,003  254,982   389,642   867.509   827,490
Construction in progress      -       --                           221,612    38,557    31.563   100,496
Others/a L                            --      --       --      --    331   471,130         --
Subtotal          142,597  148,977  156,194  161,464  177,003  476,925   899,329   899,072   927,986
Current assets
Inventory          4,008    9,123   10,694   15,128  24,017  82,655    50,453    42.852    52,368
Receivables        3,741    9,477   11,101   13,679  42,508  104,535   150,761   128.328   157,967
Cash              16,948   44,083   69,656   71,402  122,368 200,808   369,913   345.691   357,422
Subtotal           24,697   62,683   91,451  100,209  188,893 387,998   571,127   516.871   567,757
Special fund assets       12,114   20,578   10,208   14,740   2,731      --        --       --        --
Long term investments         --       --      --   6,150   12,210      --        --  124.990   196,682
Other assets/                 --       --      --       -        --   3,052        2    10.125     7,266
Total Assets             179,408  232,238  257,853  282,563 380,837  867,975 1,470,458  1,551,058  1,699,691
Liabilities & Equity
State funds-Contributed  142,597  148,977  155,194  164,710     --  62,098    76,894    92,401        --
LiT loans                     --       --      -.       ..    113 262,155   496,754   444,009   465,887
Current liabs.            15,440   57,442   65,854   81,767  167,871  251,532   419,363   420.049   418,181
Special funds             21,371   25,819   36,805   36,086      -       --        --       --        --
Equity                        --       --       --      -- 212,853  292,190   477,447   594.599   815,623
Total Lia. & Equity      179,408  232,238  257,853  282,563 380,837  867,975 1,470,458 1,551,058  1,699,691
/a Completed fixed assets.
/b Including intangible and deferred assets.



- 78 -                                   ANNEX 1
TABLE 6A: GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY (HUANGPU DISTRICT)-
INCOME STATEMENT /a
(Y' 000)
1988    1989    1990    1991       1992       1993      1994       1995       1996
Traffic ('000 tons)
Whole port                  32,652  33,225  29,067  34,734      41,084    50,071     54,945     57,647     61,332
Port authority              25,798  25,064  21,892  27,023      33,471    40,815     43,752     44,692    46,566
Revenue
Handling                   168,865  176,894 172,375 215,416    270,051    419,483    634,425    683,857    616,108
Storage                     37,965  47,334  35,547  37,380      45,914    56,075     87,952     95,515     91,438
Other                       38,404  22,412  16,990  19,584      35,124    67,296    126,125    125,543    131,383
Marketing                    5,755   7,792   4,957   7,910       5,543    34,959     69,112     71,345     81,961
Subtotal                  250,989 254,432 229,869 280,290    356,632    577,813    917,614    976,260    920,890
Operating Costs
Handling                    78,827  88,630  92,330  126,434    163,646    248,514    399,903    416,103    400,390
Storage                     11,504  14,740  12,898  18,720      29,510    31,165     48,886     49,515     50,689
Other                       19,748   9,311    8,210  12,181     32,033    55,849     95,507     91,056     97,077
Marketing                    4,744   6,191   3,968   6,899       5,782    37,325     71,621     74,844     98,392
Subtotal                  114,823  118,872 117,406 164,234    230,971    372,853    615,917    631,518    646,548
Business Tax
Handling                     5,495   5,778   5,532   6,914       8,663     13,688    20,706     22,509     20,262
Storage                      2,054   2,574   1,901   2,000       2,457     3,031      4,806      5,250      5,024
Other                        1,285     723     526      547      1,160      1,762     3,164      3,519      3,585
Marketing                       49      71      48      193       390       1,143     2,261      2,389      2,705
Subtotal                    8,883   9,146   8,007   9,654      12,670    19,624     30,937     33,667    31,576
Operating Profit
Handling                    84,543  82,486  74,513  82,068      97,742    157,281    213,816    245,245    195,456
Storage                     24,407  30,020  20,748  16,660      13,947    21,879     34,260     40,751     35,725
Other                       17,371  12,378   8,254   6,856       1,931     9,685     27,454     30,967     30,721
Marketing                      962   1,530     941      818       (629)    (3,509)    (4,770)    (5,888)   (19,136)
Subtotal                  127,283 126,414 104,456 106,402    112,991    185,336    270,760    3111,075    242,766
Other expense (income)          --      --       --      --        --    78,596    163,629    221,874    228,907
Total                      127,283 126,414 104,456 106,402    112,991    106,740    107,131     89,201     13,859
Education surcharge             --       -      150     180       236          -         --         --         --
Nonoperating income          1,475     224   1,234   1,018       2,513      1,254     9,911      4,469     10,848
Nonoperating expenses        9,942   11,790  15,447  17,031     23,385     19,575    20,093     25,847     20,134
Profit before taxes           118,816 114,848  90,093  90,209     91,883     88,419     96,949     67,823     4,573
Income tax                   1,870   1,870   1,870   1,870       1,870        --         --         --        --
Adjustment tax                  --      --       --      --         --        --         --         --         --
Payment to State             9,450   9,450   9,450   9,450       9,450     11,000    11,000     11,000     11,000
Net profit                    107,496 103,528  78,773  78,889      80,563    77,419     85,949     56,823     (6,427)
La In 1987, Huangpu Port (HP) was merged with Guangzhou Port, given the new name of Guangzhou Harbor Bureau (GHB), and become the
Huangpu District (HD) of GHB. Financially, HD is the main source of income for GHB. In 1996, for example, HD's traffic, revenue and
fixed assets constituted 81 percent, 80 percent and 80 percent, respectively, of GHB's. When figures in this report are compared with those
of the SAR, they pertain only to the HD (of GHB).



- 79-                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 6B: GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY (HUANGPU DISTRICT)-SOURCES AND
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Y'000)
1988    1989    1990    1991       1992       1993      1994       1995       1996
Sources:
Net profit                 107,496 103,528  78,773  78,889      80,563    77,419     85,949     56,823     (6,427)
Depreciation                31,913  27,194  46,615  42,075      58,614    51,318     65,645     80,010    154,776
State contribution          10,000           -           -      20,000     10,000    15,000     30,000    41,000
Borrowing    -IBRD          42,918  25,864  39,224  16,454      51,795    153,037    400,910    43,407     14,880
-Others            --  46,000  55,773  75,990    127,080     79,780     95,000    73,590    181,650
Others                          --      --   6,628  30,732      51,593    136,562        --         --        --
Subtotal                  192,327 202,586 227,013 244,140    389,645    508,116    662,504    283,830    385,879
Applications:
Capital expend.             72,282  104,279 147,693  105,729    191,921    262,845    567,192    145,325    156,530
Other investments            6,633   6,587   3,304  30,732      51,593    186,564        --         --        --
Special fund expend.        73,525  59,569  73,174  87,177    122,747    111,454     79,880    150,699     38,372
Loan repayments             18,795  11,334  15,239  15,597      17,502    69,992     59,170     79,800    103,700
Change w/capital             5,079  18,240  (25,803)  1,420     (9,837)  (270,856)   (58,011)    6,998     (4,828)
Subtotal                  176,314 200,009 213,607 240,655    373,926    359,999    648,231    382,822    293,774
Net funds flow                 16,013   2,577  13,406   3,485      15,719    148,117    14,273    (98,992)    92,105
Opening balance                50,102  66,115  68,692  82,098      85,583    101,302    249,419    263,692    164,700
Closing balance                66,115  68,692  82,098  85,583    101,302    249,419    263,692    164,700    256,805



- 80 -                                   ANNEX 1
TABLE 6c: GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY (HUANGPU DISTRICT)-BALANCE SHEET
(Y'000)
1988    1989    1990    1991        1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
ASSETS
Fixed assets
At cost                    733,459 689,404 728,280 771,425    910,175  1,031,032  1,153,531   1,973,624  3,288,414
Less: depreciation         116,652  106,531  126,854 159,633    233,844    281,305    346,950    426,960    666,118
Subtotal              616,807 582,873 601,426 611,792    676,331    749,727    806,581  1,546,664  2,622,296
Construction- in progress (net)  --     --   7,609   7,609       7,609    174,016    194,209    129,075    149,882
Total                  616,807 582,873 609,035 619,401    683,940    923,743  1,000,790  1,675,739  2,772,178
Current assets
Inventory                   19,209   19,505  21,472  23,827     29,656    38,314     45,971     43,991     42,490
Receivables                 21,277  25,812   18,572  25,021     41,852    94,304    118,253    155,793    128,268
Cash                        66,115  68,692  82,098  85,583    101,302    249,419    263,692    164,700    256,805
Total                  106,601  114,009 122,142 134,431    172,810    382,037    427,916    364,484    427,563
Special fund assets          74,209  94,762  95,423  133,065    222,088         --        --         --         --
Long-term investments          404   6,686  20,542  21,398       22,186    76,808     81,290     93,151     87,440
Otherassets/a                    -       --       -       --        --        216      1,789      1,214        475
Total Assets                798,021  798,330 847,142 908,295  1,101,024  1,382,804  1,511,785  2,134,588  3,287,656
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
State funds (equity)       478,863 445,892 471,074 487,388    571,040    683,413    793,985   1,031,435  1,686,091
Internal funds for
port development          35,304  30,257   16,693  24,700     34,045         --        --         --         --
L/T loans                   138,347  151,913  155,570  180,421    218,917    285,084    213,876    669,659  1,192,269
Current liabs.               35,339  21,930  42,460  49,844      82,341    414,307    503,924    433,494    409,296
Special funds               110,168  148,338  161,345  165,942    194,681       -          --        --         --
Total Lia. & Equity         798,021  798,330 847,142 908,295  1,101,024  1,382,804  1,511,785  2,134,588  3,287,656
/a Including intangible and deferred assets.



