GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
IO3q8- CI4A
China
Ship Waste Disposal
Project Documrent
May 1992
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to. protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming. pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1992)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RME)
RMB 1 = US$0.0186
US$1.00 = RMB 5.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter = 35.31 cubic feet
1 tonne = 1.1023 tons (short)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF              -   Cost, Insurance, and Freight
DPA              -   Dalian Port Authority
EPB              -   Environment Protection Bureau
GEF              -   Global Environment Facility
GoC              -   Government of China
aPA              -   Guangzhou Port Authority
ICB              -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB              -   Local Competitive Bidding
KARPOL           -   International Convention for the
Prevention of Marine Pollution
HOC              -   Ministry of Communications
NOr              -   Ministry of Finance
NEPA             -   National Environment Protection Agency
NPA              -   Ningbo Port Authority
PRC              -   People's Republic of China
BOA              -   State Oceanic Administration
SPA              -   Shanghai Port Authority
SPC              -   State Planning Commission
TPA              -   Tianjin Port Authority
XPA              -   Xiamen Port Authority






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
GEF Grant and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                      People's Republic of China (PRC)
Beneficiaries:                 The Government of China and the Port Authorities
of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou
and Xiamen
Amount:                        SDR 22 million ($30 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Grant
Financina Plan:
Source      Local       Foreian            Total
-…$------- S million---------------
PRC         19.8            -              19.8
GEF         14.6          15.4             30.0
IDA          7.4           7.6             15.0
Total       41.8          23.0             64.8
Economic Rate
of Return:                     Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                        Report No. 9852-CHA, dated May 19, 1992
Map:                           IBRD 23131R2



;



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
1.      Background.  China has undergone rapid economic growth over the past
decade, which has been reflected in substantial growth in foreign and domestic
trade and consequent growth in international and domestic shipping traffic
through its ports. As a signatory to the 1973 and 1978 MARPOL Convention
(International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution) (Attachment
1), GOC has agreed to provide facilities for the reception, treatment and
disposal of ships' wastes, including oil-contaminated ballast and bilge waters
(MARPOL Annex I), chemically-contaminated waters (MARPOL Annex II), and
sanitary sewage (MARPOL Annex IV) (but not garbage - MARPOL Annex V). All six
ports, at present receiving World Bank assistance under five different
operations, handle significant volumes of traffic, foreign as well as
domestic, and these generate some 1.25 million tons of wastes annually. Much
of this is now believed to be discharged at sea or in the coastal waters of
China. The problem will only get worse in the future with further growth in
traffic.
2.      In view of the above, there is an urgent need to equip the ports with
facilities to handle the wastes, thereby eliminating their discharge in
international waters. The facilities to be established at the project ports
will also serve as a model for replication at other Chinese ports as well as
in other major ports in the region. Most of the ship waste handling facili-
ties available at present in the six ports need to be rehabilitated, modern-
ized, and/or expanded; in some cases new facilities have to be provided.
Provision of proper facilities would facilitate the stricter enforcement of
the relevant laws and regulations.
3.      GOC promulgated the "Marine Environmental Protection Law of the
People's Republic of China" on August 23, 1982; it came into force on March 1,
1983. The law includes provisions for the prevention of pollution damage to
the marine environment by coastal construction projects, by offshore oil
exploration, by land-based pollutants, and by vessels. Another law was
promulgated for control of the dumping of wastes at sea on March 6, 1985.
Authority for enforcing the laws is given to the National Environment
Protection Agency (EPA), which oversees the Provincial Administrations that
actually carry out the work. In almost every port, there is an Environment
Protection Bureau (EPB) that polices pollution on land. The Harbor
Superintendency Bureau under the Ministry of Communications (MOC) monitors
pollution in waters of the port area, and the State Oceanographic
Administration (SOA) controls pollution of sea waters outside the ports'
jurisdiction.
4.      Rationale for GEF Funding.  GOC has designated environmental
protection and improvement as an important goal under its eighth five-year
plan (1991-1996). However, although China is a signatory to the MARPOL
conventions, heavy demands on the available resources, particularly foreign
exchange resources, including demands for investments in additional port
capacity and in modernization of facilities and equipment, constrain the
ability of the Port Authorities to finance the extensive facilities necessary
to handle ships' wastes. Without proper facilities, pollution from the



dumping of ships' wastes in the three seas bordering China will continue
unabated, and in fact will continue to grow with the projected growth in the
country's foreign trade and associated shipping traffic. This is a situation
where a modest (relative to China's needs) intervention by GEF in establishing
modern ship waste handling facilities will demonstrate not only the environ-
mental benefits of such facilities to China but also the feasibility of
recovering the cost of such facilities through appropriate charges to users.
At the same time, GEF funding will help establish the base for a ship waste
tracking system that would eventually facilitate the control of ship dumping
at sea. In order to function effectively, the GEF is to fund facilities at
six of the main ports in China and the GOC will spread the facilities and
tracking system to the rest of the ports in the future. GEF will fund almost
half of the project: this is fully justified as about half the wastes to be
received and treated at Chinese ports under the project would have been
disposed of in international waters and the long term benefits to the health
of shared international marine ecosystems are expected to outweigh immediate
benefits to China.
S.      Moreover, since China has no obligation or incentive to protect
international waters from pollution from ocean-going vessels, GEF resources
are being provided to compensate China for the costs of investments required
to receive and treat ship generated wastes from ships plying international
waters which visit its ports. One third of the traffic handled in the six
ports is international. Domestic traffic, accounting for the other two
thirds, also uses international waters. Thus, overall, vessels serving the
six ports use about equally the national and international waters. This is
the basis for the GEF share of financing for the project, somewhat less than
50% of total project costs.
6.      Proiect Obiective.  The objective of the proposed project is to
reduce pollution of international and territorial waters caused by ships'
wastes through: (a) improved monitoring and analysis of the nature and
magnitude of the problem; (b) improved policy, regulatory and incentive
frameworks; and (c) the provision of facilities to receive, treat and safely
dispose of ship wastes. Towards this end, the project will provide financial
and technical assistance to GOC and the six Port Authorities for the
construction and/or rehabilitation and expansion of ships' waste disposal
facilities. While limited to the six ports serving a major part of China's
sea-borne international traffic, the proposed project will serve as a model
for other ports in the country, as well as for ports in other countries,
particularly those in the region, and provide a solid basis for environmental
monitoring activities and oil spill contingency planning.
7.      Prolect Description.  The project has two components:  a national
component and a ports' component. The national component comprises: (a) the
establishment of baseline data on international ship traffic, related waste
types and quantities through design and implementation of a pilot inter-port
ship waste monitoring system to facilitate monitoring and enforcement;
(b) preparation of a comprehensive oil spill contingency plan for each port;
(c) preparation of terms of reference of a study for a Large Marine Ecosystem
monitoring program for the Yellow Sea; (d) undertaking of a study to assess
and develop a system for the treatment of chemically contaminated water; (e)
provision of facilities to upgrade environmental monitoring capabilities at
the ports, coastal waters as well as international waters, and promotion of



coordination among the various authorities; (f) preparation of a tarrif
schedule based on cost recovery; and (g) provision of consultant services and
training. The ports' component comprises: (a) provision or development of
appropriate waste reception and disposal facilities at the ports of Dalian,
Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou; and (b) the establishment or
upgrading of environmental monitoring and enforcement by the Port Authorities.
8.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $64.8 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $23.0 million (Schedule A). Of the total
financing required, GEF would provide $30 million equivalent, the Association
would finance $15 million equivalent, and GOC and the Port Authorities the
remaining $19.8 million. The procurement methods and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B and a timetable of key project processing
events in Schedule C. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995, and disbursements completed by June 30, 1996.
9.      Agreed Actions/Conditions.  During negotiations with GOC, agreement
was reached on the following key matters:
(a)       GOC will submit to the Association, by June 30, 1994, a
proposal for an appropriate tariff schedule, based on cost
recovery, for the services of the waste disposal facilities
and this will be introduced by all six ports by June 30,
1995, taking into account the Association's comments;
(b)       the Xiamen Port Authority will establish, by June 30, 1993,
an adequately staffed Environment Protection Bureau, to
supervise and operate the proposed ship waste disposal
facilities; and
(c)       GOC and each of the Port Authorities will jointly set up a
coordinating team at each port comprised of representatives
from the concerned Port Authority, EPB, NEPA, and SOA under
terms of reference agreed with the Association by
December 31, 1992.
10.     Environmental AsPects.  The design and implementation of the project
and the operation of the project facilities after completion would comply with
GOC's laws and regulations on environmental protection, which are more than
adequate by international standards. Worker safety and environmental safety
features will be incorporated in the design of all components. Completion of
the project will help to reduce pollution resulting from the discharge at sea
of oil-contaminated waters, sanitary sewage and garbage/solid wastes.
11.     Benefits.  The six ports selected for the project handle some
90 percent of the international shipping serving the sea-borne foreign trade
of the People's Republic of China (PRC). In addition, these ports serve a
significant portion of the country's domestic maritime traffic. In several of
the ports, the lack or poor capability of waste reception facilities obliges
the Port Authorities to allow ships to discharge their wastes at sea or has
created considerable delays in serving the ships. This contributes to port
inefficiency and to pollution of both international and Chinese coastal
waters. Provision of the proposed facilities should contribute to a major
improvement to the marine environment quality and serve as a model for
establishing similar facilities in other Chinese ports.



- 4 -
12.     Risks.  The main risks relate to project implementation and cost
recovery. As this is a substantially new activity for most of the ports,
technical assistance through close project supervision will be provided to
ensure satisfactory implementation. As to cost recovery, PRC's record in the
matter of introducing adequate cost recovery mechanisms has so far been good,
and GOC has indicated that there would be no difficulty in the ports introduc-
ing a cost-based tariff schedule for the new service.
13.     Environmental Assessment.  The project has been reviewed by the
Regional Environmental Division and it has been placed in the environment
screening category "B". Monitoring and evaluation are built into the project
and will be reported by the project management on a quarterly basis.



-5 -             ~SCHEDULE A
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
( million)
Project Cost'            of which
Local  Foreign    Total      IDA     GEF
National ComDonent:
Environment monitoring & tracking    0.65       1.35      2.00    0.54      1.09
Oil spill contingency planning
study                                -        0.45      0.45     -        0.42
Chemically contaminated water
treatment study                      -        0.25      0.25     -        0.23
Subtotal                        0.65     2.05      2.70    0.54      1.74
Ports' Component:
Disposal Facilities:
Dalian                               1.15    2.05       3.20    0.78      1.60
Tianjin                              7.00     2.00      9.00     2.05     3.92
Shanghai                            16.30    8.50    24.80       5.20   10.08
Ningbo                               4.80     1.70      6.50     1.83     3.55
Guangzhou                            5.36     3.20      8.56    2.08      4.17
Xiamen                               3.52     1.61      5.13     1.37     2.68
Technical assistance to Xiamen
Port Authority                       -        0.03      0.03     -        0.03
Subtotal                       38.13    19.09    57.22   13.31    26.03
Base Cost                      38.78   21.14      59.92    13.85   27.77
Physical contingencies                 1.48    0.86       2.34    0.55      1.07
Price contingencies                    1.54     1.00      2.54     0.60     1.16
TOTAL COST                     41.80   23.00    64.80    15.00    30.00
Financing Plan:
PRC and the Port Authorities        19.80    -         19.80
GEF                                 14.60   15.40    30.00
IDA                                  7.40    7.60    15.00
Total         41.80   23.00    64.80
1 In January 1992 prices. The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- 6 -                                 SCHEDULE B
CHINA
Ship Waste Disposal Project
Procurement Method and Disbursements
($ million)
Procurement Method
-----------------------------------       Total
ICB        LCB         Other     NIF
Civil works                    -        10.85          2.00    6.92      19.77
(IDA)                       -        (1.40)         -        -       (1.40)
(GEF)                       -        (1.53)       (0.54)    -        (2.07)
Equipment                    38.80        -            2.00    3.50      44.30
(IDA)                    (12.60)      -           (1.00)    -       (13.60)
(GEF)                    (26.20)      -           (1.00)    -       (27.20)
Technical assistance           -          -            0.73     -         0.73
(IDA)                       --                               -
(GEF)                       -         -           (0.73)    -        (0.73)
Total                        38.80       10.85         4.73   10.42      64.80
(IDA)                    (12.60)      (1.40)      (1.00)            (15.00)
(GEF)                    (26.20)      (1.53)      (2.27)            (30.00)
Notes: (1) Items in parentheses represcnt the portions financed by the IDA credit
and GEF grant, respectively.
(2) NIF: Non-IDA or GEF financed.
Disbursements from GEF Grant
Category                  Amount of grant    % of Expenditures to be financed
to be allocated
Civil Works                         2.07                        27%
Equipment and Materials            27.20           100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 75% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Training & Tech. Asst.              0.73                        100%
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY
1993       1994        1995      1996
… -------------$ million-------------
IDA Annual              0.0        0.0        10.0        5.0
Cumulative          0.0        0.0        10.0      15.0
GEF Annual              6.0       20.0         4.0        0.0
Cumulative          6.0       26.0        30.0      30.0



- 7 -                           SCHEDULE C
CHINA
ShiP Waste Disposal Proiect
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare                        Nine months
Prepared by                                  GOC, the Port Authorities of Dalian,
Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and
Guangzhou (Huangpu), and the Association
First Bank Mission                           April 1991
Appraisal Mission Departure                   April 1991
Negotiations                                 April 1992
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 September 1992 (expected)
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs               Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA),
Project Performance Audit Report,
January 31, 1991.






CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Technical ReDort
May 19, 1992






CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paceff No.
I.  THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR .1.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
A.  Environmental Conditions in China  . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Environmental Conditions of Coastal Waters . . . . . . .    1
C. Sector Organization.                                         2
D.  Sectoral Issues and Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.  The Bank's Role and Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .    3
II.  THE PORTS SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
A.    Port  Traffic   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
B.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
C.  Operations and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
D. Tariffs.                                                     6
E. Environmental Conditions in Chinese Ports.                   7
F. Regulatory Framework for Environment Control . . . . . .     8
G. Role of the Bank Group.                                      9
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
A. Objective .11
B. Description .11
C. Project Cost .16
D. Financing .17
E.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
IV.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . .  19
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   22
SCHEDULES
A.  Documents in the Project File
B.  Project Implementation Schedule
C.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



ATTACHMENTS
1.   International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution
2.   Summary of Present Situation and Recommended Action
3.   Oil Spill Contingency Planning and Response Study
4.   Large Marine Ecosystem Study
S.   Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study
6.   Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority
7.   Assumptions Used in the Financial Evaluation
8.   Draft Terms of Reference for Establishing a Costing and Tariff
System for Waste Reception and Disposal Services
TABLES
1.   Chinese Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water
2.   Chinese Standards Compared to Foreign Standards
3.   Estimated Project Cost
4.   Estimated Ship Waste Quantities for 1990
5.   Dalian Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
6.   Tianjin Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
7.   Shanghai Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
S.   Ningbo Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
9.   Huangpu Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
10. Xiamen Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
11. Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
MAP
IBRD No. 23131R2



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
I. THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR
A. Environmental Conditions in China
1.1       Growing urban populations and industrialization are causing widespread
air, water, and soil pollution in China, as elsewhere, and environmental problems
have become issues of the highest priority. Due to past industrial location
policies, many large industries are located close to or within urban residential
areas which are also rapidly expanding. Gaseous emissions, untreated or improperly
treated liquid effluents, and unwanted refuse from industries and domestic premises,
industrial hazardous and toxic wastes, and high noise levels from congested traffic,
factories, and commercial complexes, are significantly polluting the environment and
affecting the health of the residents of heavily populated urban areas.
1.2       Water pollution from urban and industrial waste water discharges poses
possibly the most severe problem. Many important water resources, which are already
scarce in most regions, are already seriously threatened. The burning of bituminous
coal is causing serious atmospheric pollution from airborne particulate and sulfur
dioxide emissions in inner cities and industrial areas, and directly affecting human
health. Few countries are as dependent on coal as China, with annual consumption
now approaching 1 billion tons. Domestic garbage and industrial solid waste often
pile up uncovered in random heaps around large cities, as a result of poor past, and
in many cases even present, solid waste disposal practice. In the countryside,
excessive use of water and inappropriate use of fertilizers and pesticides, as well
as irrigation in some areas, have begun to create environmental problems.
B. Environmental Conditions of Coastal Waters
1.3       Many of China's largest urban centers are clustered along the coast and
thus their industrial and sanitary wastes are discharged into the coastal marine
waters. Treatment of such effluents is highly variable, ranging from virtually no
treatment in Guangzhou in the south to secondary treatment of part of the wastes in
Shanghai. Treatment at source of industrial effluents is generally not undertaken
leading to potential pollution by trace metal and organic contaminants of the
combined sewage waters. With some notable exceptions (e.g., Huangpu River in
Shanghai), good circulation of local receiving waters maintains coastal and
estuarine waters in reasonably good condition (PRC National Water Standard Class 2
or 3, Table 1). However, as the urban centers expand, combined with development of
new economic/industrial zones, maintenance of coastal water quality will require
more widespread use of adequate sewage treatment and dispesll uywtems.
1.4       There are three major river systems discharging into the China coastal
sea lane: Huang He (Yellow River) into the Yellow Sea, Chang Jiang (Yangtze River)
into the East China Sea and the Xi Jiang (Pearl River into the South China Sea);
there are numerous smaller rivers. These river systems are well known to transport
extremely large quantities of suspended solids, the result of erosion of inland
areas, and potentially, contaminants associated with the solids (e.g., pesticides,
fertilizers, industrial discharges). Extensive monitoring of water and sediment
quality has been undertaken of, at least, the three major systems since 1984. Water
quality is typically of National Water Quality Class 2 or 3; however, accumulations
of contaminants in the sediments with a resultant impact on the sediment biological
community have been noted, for example loadings of contaminants near Shanghai on the



- 2 -
lower Chang Jiang. Comparisons of the adjacent coastal to international waters have
not been undertaken.
1.5       The State Oceanographic Administration (SOA) has been conducting marine
monitoring and assessment studies of the coastal and international waters since
1974, for such parameters as petroleum hydrocarbons, trace metals and other general
water quality parameters, as well as sediment quality and status of the marine
biological community. Through three major centers (Dalian, Shanghai, and
Guangzhou), SOA monitors water quality twice a year at over 100 stations in deeper
waters, some 400 stations in collaboration with the Harbor Superintendency
Administration (HSA) for oil pollution and industrial wastes, and 240 stations in
major estuaries (typically in the outer reaches; other agencies are responsible for
the remaining sections of the rivers). Sediments at many of these sites are
monitored once a year, and the status of the marine biological community once every
two years. SOA has just completed a comprehensive "Mussel-watch" type program to
assess contaminant distribution and biodiversity in conjunction with HSA. A more
detailed description of SOA activities is available in the project file.
1.6       Specific pollution attributable to ships wastes and marine traffic
through the coastal sea lane is difficult to quantify. Estimates can be derived
from comments by HSA that many ports are able to handle only 20-30 percent of
estimated quantities of garbage/solid wastes, none of the ports have facilities or
barges to permit pumping out of sanitary sewage for subsequent treatment, and, with
the exception of Dalian and Shanghai, facilities for the reception and treatment of
oily waters are limited in capacity and treatment capability. Assuming
optimistically that 30 percent of the waste is being properly handled and treated,
then 800,000 to 900,000 tons are being discharged annually into coastal and
international waters.
C. Sector Organization
1.7       The government of each administrative region is responsible for enforcing
environment protection laws, primarily through its Environment Protection Bureau
(EPB). At the national level, the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)
is responsible for (a) determining national environmental policies for air, water,
soil, wastes, noise, etc.; (b) designing national environmental regulations and
standards; (c) environmental monitoring; (d) providing guidance to the provinces on
environmental matters; and (e) research. Many port authorities have set up EPBs
reporting through a deputy director. These bureaus handle monitoring and operation
of pollution control equipment, and are responsible for preparing appropriate
documentation, such as environment impact statements, state-of-the-environment
reporting, and environment aspects of engineering feasibility and operational
studies. Each municipality also has a Municipal Environment Protection Bureau
(MEPB) responsible for monitoring all aspects of pollution and enforcement of
national environmental protection laws and regulations.
1.8       Under the Marine Environmental Protection Law, the Harbor Superintendency
Administration (HSA) is responsible for monitoring pollution or accidental spillage
from ships, which includes examining waste treatment facilities on bulk carriers.
Although operating mostly inside harbors, HSA is also responsible for responding to
spills and pollution from ships in coastal waters; however, it lacks the facilities
and equipment to do so. Along with NEPA, SOA is also responsible for environmental
quality at the national level. SOA functions include marine environmental research
and monitoring, but mostly of waters outside harbors. Data from their studies are
helpful for revising or developing regulations and regulatory limits.



- 3 -
D. Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.9       The emphasis on economic development in the 1970s encouraged growth
without special regard for pollution control. Hence, environmental conditions have
seriously deteriorated. Beginning with the 7th FYP (1986-90), GOC and the local
authorities have taken greater initiatives to improve the environment and to enforce
important regulations. These include a strict requirement for environmental impact
assessments on new projects that may pose environmental problems. A key initiative
is the required simultaneous assessment and interaction of economic, engineering and
environmental aspects of all projects, from the earliest feasibility study stage to
the final operations stage. During the feasibility study stage, the environment
impact assessment (EIA) for port and water projects employs state-of-the-art EA
techniques and addresses environmental protection and mitigation issues and overall
environment management.
1.10      For existing polluters, problems arise when the cost of cleanup is high.
Since local authorities are often the owners of the polluting enterprises, they may
be reluctant to jeopardize the financial viability of the enterprises through
expensive cleanup measures. Thus financial constraints slow the progress of
pollution abatement. Current industrial cleanup measures include mostly end-of-pipe
treatment, a term that denotes treatment rather than reduction or waste avoidance.
The Central Government, with the Bank's assistance, is considering more preventive
measures, i.e., more efficient and economical methods for reducing pollution through
recycling, process modification, and the use of less polluting inputs. Often when
technological change is the preferred solution, lack of financial
resources-especially foreign exchange-is generally a barrier.
1.11      To deter pollution, the Central Government introduced a system of
charging for pollution and imposing penalties for exceeding set pollution limits.
About 80 percent of the funds derived from these charges are used for pollution
abatement measures or facilities. A range of unit charges (based on concentration)
covers each type of pollution. Within this range, local governments who enforce the
regulations can set the charges. Often, however, the charges are too low even at
the top of the range to deter pollution, since polluters often find it cheaper to
pay the penalties rather than take more costly abatement measures.  Also, even
though the amount collected from penalties is not insignificant, it is too small to
significantly assist polluters in cleanup.  If further measures are not found to
finance pollution abatement efforts, environmental improvement will be slow.
1.12      The main focus of the environmental efforts of the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1991-95) is on urban and regional environmental strategies, since they are
recognized as major sources of marine pollution. Plans include the construction of
upgraded sanitary sewage facilities (e.g., the Bank-financed facilities for
Shanghai), active participation in various international conventions, such as the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), and
development of environmental strategies for key coastal areas (e.g., a recently
approved grant, financed under the Japan Grant Facility administered by the Bank, to
finance a large-scale, environmental study of Hangzhou Wan, China's most productive,
but increasingly polluted, bay. Hangzhou Wan lies between the port of Shanghai (to
the north) and the port of Ningbo (to the south).
E. The Bank's Role and Sector Stratecy
1.13      The Bank's role in the environment sector in China is to assist the
Government in (a) developing appropriate strategies for improving and maintaining
the quality of the environment (to optimize total benefits, including those from
improvements in the efficiency of industrial production and the use of natural



resources); (b) planning and prioritizing needs for environmental improvement, and
identifying and preparing plans for the most cost-effective projects; (c) providing
project funding and attracting other sources of external financing; (d)
strengthening institutions responsible for enforcing environmental protection
regulations, as well as those that operate community systems for environmental
pollution abatement; and (e) promoting sound financial and cost recovery policies to
sustain viable operation of the urban services required for reducing environmental
pollution. Because of the magnitude of the problem, the Bank's work on the
environment in China is receiving much attention and support from the international
community. In many instances, the Bank is well positioned to direct this attention
and support to high-priority areas.
1.14      The linkage between the economy and environment at the urban level offers
the Bank an excellent comparative advantage. The Bank is assisting with the
economic analysis of underlying causes of environmental degradation and the use of
economic techniques to set priorities for improving and protecting the environment.
It also provides technical help in designing policies and making investments,
particularly in waste avoidance, waste reduction, and pollution control technologies
and projects. The design of five comprehensive urban and provincial environmental
projects currently under preparation will address strategies for managing and
treating water resources, minimizing industrial wastes and controlling pollution of
water, air, and land, including managing hazardous and toxic wastes. These five
projects will also include components to develop long-term, least-cost environmental
strategies, policies, and investment programs, as well as provide institutional
development assistance to the respective provincial and municipal environmental
protection bureaus, planning commissions, and public utilities.
1.15      Bank technical assistance related to the environment includes activities
at the national, provincial, and municipal levels. Assistance (through the Japan
Grant Facility administered by the Bank) to the National Environmental Protection
Agency (NEPA) was recently approved. This will help NEPA strengthen its research,
planning, and implementation of environmental policies in five areas: (a)
environmental impact assessment; (b) waste minimization and pollution control in
rural industries; (c) environmental planning and economic incentives; (d) hazardous
and toxic waste management; and (e) environmental information systems. The Bank is
also providing technical assistance under various projects to environment
departments in several sectors or line ministries.
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
A. Port Traffic
2.1       Six of China's 15 major deep-water ports (Shanghai, Dalian, Xiamen,
Ningbo, Guangzhou, and Tianjin) handle over 80 percent of the total traffic.
Shanghai, with over 100 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the world. In
1987, it handled 128 million tons of cargo and more than 12 million passengers. The
port of Ningbo, which is close to Shanghai, is one of China's few natural deep-water
ports; it is the only deep-water port on China's mid-eastern seaboard. Many other
minor ports connect China's extensive coastline and 110,000 km of navigable
waterways.
2.2       Since opening its economy to foreign trade in the late 19709, traffic
through China's 15 major ports has more than doubled to 440 million tons in 1989.
Compared with that of many developing countries, however, port traffic in China is
low in relation to the size of its economy. Foreign trade is expected to continue



growing in step with the economy as a whole: the Eighth Five-Year Plan envisions
total port traffic reaching 700 million tons by 1995, which will be more than 45
percent higher than the volume projected for 1990.
B. Organization and Manaaement
2.3       One of the most important challenges facing the management of China's
ports is how to adapt the ports to the changing circumstances brought about by the
economic reforms initiated in 1979. The port subsector was not affected by the
economic reforms until 1984, when the Ministry of Communications (MOC) began to
decentralize the ports. The decentralization featured (a) self-financing of port
operations, (b) investments funded by internal cash generation, and (c) increasing
competition among ports for cargo. Before the decentralization, MOC set tariffs,
allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major investments, covered any
deficits, and received most of the surpluses generated by the ports. Now only a
portion of the total cargo is allocated, tariffs for unallocated cargo may be set
competitively within a narrow range, and profits (subject to taxes) are retained by
the ports. The Government progressively plans to reduce controlled allocation of
traffic, reform tariffs and taxation policies, and phase out grant financing of
investments.
2.4       The ports of Tianjin, Shanghai, Dalian, and Guangzhou (Huangpu) were the
first to be decentralized. A "Pilot System Reform," introduced in Tianjin in 1984,
transferred primary leadership of the port from MOC to the local government. The
port was exempted from paying any taxes on profits until 1990. Since the reforms,
the port has had much more autonomy in management, investment planning, and control
over its finances. In 1986, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian were decentralized
with modified provisions for taxes and grant financing of investments: they were to
pay a fixed lump sum tax, obtain MOC approval for large investments, and receive
some grant financing through 1990. Huangpu port was similarly decentralized, though
specific provisions were again slightly different. All the ports remaining under
MOC control were given greater financial autonomy from the end of 1988.
2.5       While it is still early to evaluate the different models adopted to
improve port management, it appears that future policy will likely treat ports more
fairly and uniformly. In order to develop efficient policies on taxation, tariffs,
and the financing of investments, better information on port operations, costs, and
finances must be made available. The Bank is helping MOC conduct studies that
include research on alternative organizational forms employed in other countries, as
well as on development of port costing systems.
C. Operations and Maintenance
2.6       Although most major ports in China operate round the clock with a three-
shift system, operations are increasingly hampered by congestion-inside the port
areas, mainly because of the lack of adequate specialized facilities. Technological
and institutional factors contribute to inefficiency and congestion. In 1985,
average delays for foreign trade vessels were as high as 11 days. Government
restrictions on imports improved the situation somewhat in 1986, but major ports
experienced increased congestion again with average waiting times of four to five
days.
2.7       Port congestion in many southern and eastern ports could be alleviated by
rationalizing cargo movements through the use of modern sea-going barges for direct
transfers of cargo between ports. MOC has begun to rationalize traffic flows and,
as part of the Ningbo Port Project, cargo and shipping movements in the mid-eastern
region are being studied. The ports of Shanghai and Dalian have retained



- 6 -
consultants to review operations, identify weaknesses, and recommend improvements.
At the ports of Ningbo, Xiamen, and Shanghai, the Bank has mounted similar reviews
of operations and maintenance, and has agreed with these ports on specific
performance targets within specific time frames.
2.8       Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth produc-
tivity levels for general cargo as low as 50 percent of levels achievable with
unitized cargo handling. Clearly, more specialized handling facilities are needed
to increase the level of cargo unitization for break-bulk cargoes. Some progress
has been made in containerization for foreign trade, although little has been
achieved in domestic trade. Using pallets to move break-bulk cargo is a feasible
and cost-effective means of increasing unitization of domestic break-bulk cargo;
savings would result both from improved productivity and reductions in cargo damage
and loss.
2.9       The proper interfacing of different transportation modes is an aspect of
port development which is now receiving the urgent attention of MOC. However, only
road connections are within MOC's jurisdiction, while railways are the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Railways (MOR). MOR itself is facing a serious shortage
of capacity, and must coordinate its own priority projects with those of MOC.
D. Tariffs
2.10      China's ports have two levels of tariffs - - one for foreign trade and
another for domestic trade. Foreign ships pay the published harbor dues and
charges, which seem to be set on the basis of what the market will bear, while
Chinese vessels pay lower rates, which seem to reflect the relative financial
strengths of the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO) and the ports and their
different investment requirements. Chinese ports have no shipping conference rates,
and the ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting, which are usually
paid by the cargo owner. Recently, however, ports have been signing dispatch
agreements with ship operators that guarantee a certain turnaround time: the port
pays demurrage charges if the time is exceeded or the ship pays premiums if cargo is
handled faster. Usually the premiums far exceed the demurrage charges.
2.11      The structure and level of port tariffs are determined jointly by MOC,
MOF, and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure was established in
1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade vessels) on the basis of a somewhat
arbitrary allocation of costs to the different port services. Tax agreements
between the ports and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) expired in 1990; future tax and
tariff policies are presently under review. The structure reflects all the
distortions inherent in the prices of the different factor inputs. As a first step
toward rationalizing tariffs, MOC is currently carrying out a comprehensive Costing
and Management Information System (PCMIS) study (funded by the Japanese Government),
with the assistance of the Bank, which will be responsible for developing an
accurate and uniform costing system. After the system has been developed under
MOC's auspices, it will be tested at selected ports before adoption at all major
ports. Port authorities must become more aware of the cost of providing specific
services as well as whether depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover
liabilities are adequate. Further, since grant financing and the large investments
planned for China's ports will be eliminated (to accommodate increased trade flows
and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), the future financial
liabilities of ports are likely to increase rapidly. Hence, the Government and port
managers must pay special attention to costing port operations, managing their
finances, and assurLng the long-term viability of investments.



2.12      Tariff reform is necessary both to assure the future financial health of
the ports and to ensure that port tariffs provide incentives for efficient
utilization of port assets.  In many instances the present tariff structure is
inefficient on both counts.  For instance, the relative prices for handling
break-bulk cargo, pelletized cars, and container cargo do not reflect costs; they
actually discourage shippers from using more efficient unitized cargo-handling
technology. Also, relatively low port storage charges encourage shippers to
overutilize port storage facilities, thereby causing congestion in the ports.
Therefore, tariff reform must focus on the level of tariffs as well as on the
structure.
E. Environmental Conditions in Chinese Ports
2.13      China's rapid economic growth over the past decade has been reflected in
substantial increases in foreign and domestic trade and consequent growth in
international and domestic shipping traffic through its ports. This increased ship
traffic has resulted in discharges at sea of associated wastes, such as oily ballast
and bilge waters, sanitary sewage, and garbage or solid wastes. The volume of 1990
ship traffic and the estimated wastes generated by such traffic are presented in
Attachment 1. A summary of 1990 data, as well as forecasts for 1995, are given
below:
Port              Ship Traffic (no.)       Wastes generated (thousand tons)
1990      1995               1990        1995
Dalian           10,900    13,000                 225        300
Tianjin           5,500     8,000                 114        150
Shanghai         25,400    30,000                 500        600
Ningbo            1,400     3,000                  28         60
Guangzhou         8,400    10,500                 210        250
Xiamen           10,700    16,000                 163        240
Total         62.300    80.500              1,240       1,600
Source: Bank staff, 1991.
2.14      China has an extensive coastline bordering on three regional seas:  the
Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, and the South China Sea. Many areas within these
waters are important sources of harvested marine resources both for China and other
nations. The World Oceans.are divided into 52 large marine ecosystems (LME) that
provide more than 90 percent of the ocean resources. The Yellow Sea is one of these
ecosystems that requires preservation. Protection of the environmental quality of
these waters is critical for maintaining a major food source, and is reflected in
one of the goals of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-96). PRC has recognized the
need to improve the protection and conservation of the environment, including that
of both coastal and adjacent international marine waters. Policies include con-
struction of upgraded sanitary sewage facilities (e.g., City of Shanghai), improved
industrial waste management, and active participation in various international
agreements, such as the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution
from Ships (MARPOL).



- 8 -
2.15      One key mechanism for environmental protection of marine waters is the
1973/78 MARPOL Convention (Attachment 1), to which PRC became a signatory in 1984.
Under this convention, ships are permitted to discharge wastes at sea only under
controlled conditions (e.g., oil tanker ballast waters may not contain more than 15
mg/L of hydrocarbons), and ports are to provide facilities for the reception,
treatment, and disposal of ships' wastes. Four types of wastes have been
identified:
(a) oily ballast and bilge waters (MARPOL Annex 1);
(b) chemically contaminated ballast and bilge waters (MARPOL Annex 2);
(c) sanitary sewage (MARPOL Annex 4); and
(d)  garbage or solid wastes (MARPOL Annex 5).2
Of these, MARPOL Annex 4 has not yet come into force because of limited worldwide
port reception facilities for sewage.
2.16      Attachment 2 gives a summary of existing waste reception facilities in
the six major foreign trade ports in China covered under this project (Dalian,
Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou, and Xiamen). Of the six ports, only Dalian
and Shanghai have the facilities and infrastructure potential to handle ships'
wastes. However, even these facilities are outdated and barely able to meet present
demands. Waste volumes projected for the future will clearly exceed existing
capacity. At Xing Zhao near Guangzhou, the Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime Transport
Administration (BOMTA) is establishing a facility to handle oily ballast from its
ships, eliminating the need for such a separate GPA facility. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the GPA that GPA will enter into arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, with BOMTA to handle the oily ballast and bilae
waters for all port users at the proposed BOMTA facility at Xin Zhao.
2.17      The provision of proper waste management facilities, coupled with an
appropriate regulatory and monitoring regime and fee schedule, should significantly
reduce the quantities of pollutant wastes discharged at sea. Construction of the
facilities would also provide a model for other ports in China.
F. Regulatory Framework for Environment Control
2.18      As a signatory to MARPOL, China has enacted the Marine Environment
Protection Law (March 1, 1983). Chapter 5 of the law specifically addresses
prevention of pollution from vessels. PRC subsequently developed a set of detailed
regulations on pollution from vessels. In general, these regulations are stricter
than present international guidelines (see Table 2). For example, the oil content
permitted in discharge watet is less than 10 mg/l (ppm), compared with the
international guideline of 15 mg/l (ppm). However, these regulations are not at
present being strictly enforced and monitored primarily due to lack of waste
reception facilities.
2.19      Many port authorities have set up an Environmental Protection Bureau
reporting through a deputy director. These bureaus undertake monitoring and
operation of pollution control equipment, and are responsible for preparing
appropriate documentation, such as environmental impact statements, state of the
2    MARPOL Annex 3 deals with harmful substances carried in packaged form in
freight containers and portable tanks.



environment reporting, and environmental aspects of engineering feasibility and
operational studies. Each municipality also has a Municipal Environment Protection
Bureau responsible for monitoring all aspects of pollution and enforcement of
national environmental protection laws and regulations. Presently none of the ports
has a specific fee to permit cost recovery for the capital or operating costs of the
proposed facilities.
G. Role of the Bank GrouD
2.20      The Bank has supported the Government's objective of expanding capacity
and improving productivity in the ports since 1982. The first lending operation in
the subsector (Three Ports Projects, Loan 2207-CHA) financed additional container
handling capacity in Shanghai, Huangpu and Tianjin and a coal terminal at Huangpu.
The second (Tianjin Port Project, Loan 2689-CHA) is financing the construction of
eleven additional berths at Tianjin for timber, construction materials and general
cargo. The third (Huangpu Port Project Loan 2877-CHA/Credit 1845-CHA) is financing
the construction of five additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu district of
Guangzhou port for coal, iron ore, bulk fertilizer and general cargo. The fourth
(Dalian Port Project Loan 2907-CHA/Credit 1875-CHA) is financing construction of a
new terminal at Dayao Bay for container and break-bulk cargo. The fifth (Ningbo and
Shanghai ports project, Loan 3006-CHA) is financing expansions at both Ningbo and
Shanghai ports. The sixth (Xiamen Port Project, Loan 3007-CHA) is financing con-
struction of four additional berths at Xiamen. Physical implementation of projects
has been good, with projects generally on schedule and below estimated costs.
2.21      Earlier Bank projects supported management systems improvements with
components addressing computer development, technical studies, training, and con-
tainerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also been instrumental in
developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation of investment projects and
in updating various aspects of port operations. A study is under way to help GOC
determine the most economic pattern of development for the various ports in
mid-eastern China, particularly Shanghai and Ningbo ports.
2.22      Several studies in the port and shipping subsectors have been initiated
under previous Bank projects. They include a containerization study which was
completed by the Comprehensive Transport Research Institute in 1985.  Recent
investments in container facilities have benefitted from the insights provided by
this effort.  Studies included under ongoing port projects include an Intermodal
Cargo Distribution Study as part of the Huangpu Port Project (for the south), a
similar effort to be undertaken in the Dalian Port Project (for North China), Port
Costing and Management Information Study, etc. From all these projects it became
evident that mitigation measures to improve and/or to protect the marine environment
is sorely needed.
2.23      Even though China signed the MARPOL convention in 1984,  specific
pollution abatement measures have not been included in Bank projects as they depend
for their effectiveness on a national policy across all ports, at least the major
ones in foreign trade. A policy is now taking shape on this matter, and provides
the Bank Group a unique opportunity through the project, supported by GEF, to assist
and encourage GOC to implement a comprehensive program to monitor ship movements and
waste discharges along the coastal sea lane, as well as to provide facilities and
strengthen the regulatory framework (incentives and penalties) for ships to dis-
charge their wastes in an environmentally safe manner.
2.24      Of the Bank-financed port projects, only one has been completed so far--
the Three Ports Project. The primary project aim was to create additional port
capacity in Tianjin, Shanghai and Huangpu. Other aims of the project were that



- 10 -
during project implementation (i) the government would evolve a long-term national
port strategy and (ii) the Bank would establish a dialogue with the borrower on the
basis of three studies included in the project. The principal objective to create
additional port capacity and prevent port congestion was accomplished fully and on
time. The economic rate of return of 34 percent compared with 29 percent at
appraisal; operation and maintenance of terminals were efficient. But the
Government did not evolve at that time a long-term strategy, and preparation by the
borrower of the three studies and the Project Completion Report was not
satisfactory. The Bank Group, however, is now assisting GOC in evolving a port
development strategy for the southern half of China, and a number of other important
studies are underway.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiective
3.1       The objective of the project is to reduce pollution of international and
Chinese territorial waters caused by ships' wastes through: (a) improved monitoring
and analysis of the nature and magnitude of the problem; (b) improved policy,
regulatory, and incentive frameworks; and (c) the provision of infrastructure to
receive and safely dispose of ship wastes.
B. Description
3.2       The project consists of a national component and a ports' component, as
follows:
National Component
(a) establishing baseline data on international ship traffic, related waste
types and quantities by designing a pilot interport ship waste
transferring system to facilitate enforcement;
(b) preparing a comprehensive oil spill contingency plan for each port (in-
cluding identification of selected equipment);
(c) preparing terms of reference for undertaking a study of a Large Marine
Ecosystem (LME) monitoring program for the Yellow Sea;
(d) undertaking a study to develop a system for the treatment of chemically
contaminated water;
(e) promoting coordination among the various authorities to upgrade envi-
ronmental monitoring capabilities at the ports, coastal waters as well as
international waters;
(f) preparing and implementing a tariff schedule based on cost recovery; and
(g) providing consultants' services and training in connection with or
related to activities under the project.
Ports' Component
(a) provision of appropriate waste reception and disposal facilities at the
ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou; and
(b) establishing or upgrading environmental monitoring and enforcement capa-
bilities of each of the Port Authorities.
National Component
3.3       Intervort Ship Waste Trackina System.  The provision of waste reception
and treatment facilities in each port will permit ships the effective option of safe
discharge of wastes in port. This can be enforced to a certain extent by HSA, but
to realistically evaluate compliance with the Marine Environment Law and to provide
an evaluation mechanism for the project, it is proposed to develop and operate a
port-to-port waste tracking system. At the port of departure, information as to
projected volumes of wastes will be collected and entered into a data base through



- 12 -
specific software. This information will be forwarded to the next port of call. At
each port, the volumes and characteristics of the wastes discharged will be compared
to the information forwarded from the port of departure. Thus HSA will be able to
evaluate whether a ship illegally discharged wastes at sea, in contravention of
existing regulations. Software programs for this purpose are in use at a number of
ports in Europe. The project will include: (a) development of a specific software
program and of the information delivery and manifest system, as a first phase; (b)
purchase and installation of "PC"-type computers in each of the six project ports,
linked through computer modem with the other project ports and with HSA in Beijing,
and training of port staff in operating the program, as a second phase. For the
project to be successful, it will also require the cooperation of the shipping
companies and ship personnel; the project will include consultation and training
sessions with shipping companies and ship personnel. A third phase of the tracking
system is its eventual coverage of all important ports on the coast of China.
3.4       Oil Spill Contingency Planning Study.  All the ports reviewed handle
considerable quantities of petroleum hydrocarbons, as both crude oil and refined
products, with increases projected in both the volume and size of the carriers being
handled. In some cases, for example, Xiamen and Ningbo, berth space is inadequate
for handling very large carriers; they have to be off-loaded while at anchorage.
This activity has led the port authorities to become very concerned over the
potential for product spillage or accidental leakage and their inability to clean up
spills. The project provides oil booms for the ports to handle such situations.
Only DPA and SPA have developed some sort of consistent oil spill contingency plans,
but they are not complete.   All six port authorities need considerable assistance
to prepare modern oil spill contingency and response plans.
3.5       Significant expenditures for spill response equipment and chemicals are
inappropriate at this time and should be deferred until completion of a program of
planning and training. The project will provide assistance to undertake a three-
phase study to (a) develop oil spill contingency plans for the six ports using a
generic model that can then be used to develop specific plans for each port; (b)
undertake training of staff in the design and implementation of oil spill contin-
gency plans; and (c) identify response equipment appropriate to the needs of the six
ports. The experts to be hired under the project will work closely with MOC to
develop a national scenario for oil spill response. This scenario would ensure
nationwide consistency in planning, response capability, response training, and
availability of personnel and equipment. Each port will maintain and operate a
"standard" set of equipment that could be combined with resources from other ports
in the event of a major spill. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
all six ports that they will adopt an oil spill contingency nlan by July 31. 1994,
developed according to terms of reference agreed with the Association (Draft Scope
of Work, see Attachment 3).
3.6       Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) Activity.  The Yel-low Sea, one of the
world's LMEs, is also an important international waterway for shipping. It is
important in the long term to protect the quality of the marine ecosystem of the
Yellow Sea and, if possible, to work to improve it. While various factors influence
the biomass yields of the LMEs, and all of these are not fully known, sufficient
knowledge and expertise are available to assist in the maintenance of their quality.
To put a system in place for this purpose, however, requires long-term commitment
both to establish a monitoring and remedial system and to operate it subsequently.
This commitment will have to come from all the countries sharing in the Yellow Sea
LME, namely, China, Japan and Korea. However, this is an activity falling outside
the scope of port activities and not directly related to it, and invariably in the
jurisdiction of an agency different from the one dealing with ports. (In China, MOC
has jurisdiction over the ports, but SOA is an independent GOC agency.) However,



- 13 -
LME activity would be a logical follow-on to the ship waste disposal project, and
the Bank Group has proposed to GOC that this be undertaken as a separate exercise.
The project will include assistance in developing the terms of reference and
detailed work program (Attachment 4) for such activity, which will be undertaken as
a separate exercise. Various sources of funding for this regional program are being
explored, i.e., UNDP, NOAA, technical assistance credit, etc. Assurances were
obtained from GOC durina negotiations that it will prepare. in consultation with the
Association. the TOR and the complete proaram for a study of the Yellow Sea marine
ecosystem by December 31, 1992.
3.7       Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study.  The discharge of chemi-
cally contaminated waters is controlled by Annex 2 of MARPOL. With the exception of
the Ningbo Port Authority, none of the ports has facilities to receive and treat
ballast or bilge waters from bulk chemical carriers, nor to treat contaminated
waters resulting from the washing of containers, due to its small quantities.
However, bulk chemical cargo is becoming a major cargo for the six ports reviewed
with the exception of Xiamen, and all the Port Authorities need to treat chemically
contaminated waters.
3.8       The project will include a study to assess and develop a treatment system
for chemically contaminated water (see Draft Scope of Work in Attachment 5). The
study will be divided into three phases: (a) assessment of the nature and
quantities of chemical cargoes now or projected to be handled through the ports; (b)
joint development with staff from MOC and NEPA to designate effluent criteria for
the chemical substances contaminating the ballast, bilge and wash waters; and (c)
identification and design of a treatment system that will be "generic" and modular
in structure so that it can be tailored to handle best the different types and
quantities of chemicals handled. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
GOC that it will carry out the above-mentioned study according to TOR aareed with
the Association. by December 31. 1993. and implement its recommendations in
consultation with the Association.
Ports' Component
3.9       Oil-Contaminated Waters (MARPOL Annex 11.  For each port, the necessary
facilities were identified: they must be able to receive, treat, and process waters
from oil-contaminated ballast, bilge/engine rooms, and tank wash from both crude and
refined product carriers (see Attachment 2). In some cases, the port requirements
were small enough to be adequately handled through the use of one or more
self-propelled processing barges; in other cases, the requirements were larger and
would be met through the use of a land-based facility. In either case, the
oil-contaminated waters would be processed through a multistage processor consisting
of gravity-based settling tanks, air floatation tanks, and adsorption filters to
remove hydrocarbons and permit the operating agency to meet China's current
receiving water criterion of 10 mg/L (ppm). All treatment facilities would include
automatic monitoring systems to permit continuous treatment and discharge of waters.
3.10      The project will also provide sampling and testing equipment to permit
the monitoring stations of the Port Environment Protection Bureaus and the Harbor
Superintendency to monitor the treatment facilities to ensure their proper
operation. The Port Environment Protection Bureaus will coordinate with local
facilities of the SOA in such matters as sampling protocols, testing methodologies,
and quality assurance of data programs.
3.11      Sanitary Sewage (MARPOL Annex 4).  The provision of sanitary sewage
facilities in the ports to receive and treat sewage from the ships will serve as a



- 14 -
model for both the adjacent municipality and also for other municipalities and ports
in China. In most cases, the port facilities would be located in municipal units
that do not provide at present central collection and treatment facilities. In the
ports of Dalian and Shanghai, the project would provide appropriate piping and
valves to connect ship offloading facilities, at all terminals, to existing
municipal collection and treatment systems. In the other four ports, the project
would provide offloading facilities connected to secondary treatment package sewage
plants. They would be chosen so as to be readily expandable to accommodate
increases in shipping or to provide facilities for wastes from the landside of the
port operations.
3.12      The treatment facilities will permit treatment to secondary treatment
levels, i.e, they will remove most solids and oxygen-demand materials, a portion of
the nutrients, and a portion of associated contaminants. Effluents will be
chlorinated to kill any associated bacteria and pathogens.
3.13      The project will also provide sampling and laboratory testing equipment
to permit the monitoring stations of the Port Environmental Protection Bureaus to
monitor the treatment facilities to ensure their proper operation. These tests will
include biochemical and chemical oxygen demands, dissolved oxygen, suspended solids,
turbidity, coliform bacteria, and select pathogens.
3.14      Garbage and Solid Wastes (MARPOL Annex 51.  Of the six ports reviewed,
only DPA had an adequate program for the receipt and disposal of garbage and solid
wastes. The other port authorities acknowledged that their facilities were adequate
to receive and treat, at best, 20 percent of the projected garbage and solid wastes.
The project will provide for the purchase of suitable collection barges and/or
trucks for the port authorities and for the construction of incinerators for the
destruction of materials that cannot be recycled or made into acceptable compost.
The solid waste receiving and disposal facilities will form part of an overall solid
waste management plan for the port.
3.15      Disposal of garbage and solid wastes has often proved to be a very con-
tentious issue for municipal units everywhere. As part of the project, the
Association will work closely with the port authorities to ensure that the proposed
port solid waste management plant can be integrated with the municipal solid waste
management plans. In each case, the port authority will develop a solid waste
management plan for ships' wastes and for other solid wastes generated in the port.
Where possible, municipally owned and operated incineration, compost, and/or
landfill facilities will be used to dispose of solid wastes (e.g., in Dalian and
Ningbo). In cases where the port operations are separate from the main municipal
units (e.g., in Tianjin or Guangzhou), the port authorities will construct and
operate their own disposal facilities. Materials that can be recycled will be first
separated out; the remainder are proposed to be incinerated, since landfill space is
highly restricted. In the case of Shanghai, where port operations are very large,
the port authority will also construct and operate its own facilities. Assurances
were obtained from the six Port Authorities that they will develop their respective
waste management plans by December 31, 1992. send them for the Association's review
and comments, and adopt and implement them by December 31. 1994, taking into account
the Association's comments.
3.16      Incinerators will be designed to meet the criteria for preservation of
air quality. Resultant fly and bottom ash will be disposed of in appropriate
landfill facilities after testing to ensure that contaminants are suitably
immobilized. The project includes sampling and laboratory testing equipment to
permit the monitoring stations of the Port Environment Protection Bureaus to monitor
the treatment facilities to ensure their proper operation. These tests will include



- 15 -
air quality monitoring (both ambient and stack sampling) and leachate testing of the
fly and bottom ash.
3.17      Environment Monitoring Capabilitv.  Under the GEF provisions, the cost-
effectiveness of the proposed facilities are to be determined initially on the basis
of physical rather than monetary measures of global benefits (as the latter are
almost impossible to quantify and measure). In addition, the GEF-funded projects
should operate in an institutional framework which is favorable to the achievement
of broad GEF objectives of global environment improvement.
3.18      To provide an adequate means of assessing the physical benefits of the
proposed facilities, the project would provide for the purchase of suitable sampling
and laboratory testing equipment to upgrade or complement existing capabilities
within the Environmental Monitoring Stations of the Port Environmental Protection
Bureaus. A detailed list of proposed laboratory equipment is available in the
project file. With the exception of XPA, all the ports have the appropriate staff
and institutional arrangements in place to acquire and operate the equipment
appropriate to the monitoring requirements associated with the proposed reception
and treatment facilities. As detailed later (para. 3.21-3.23), XPA will be provided
technical assistance to develop, set up and staff an Environment Protection Bureau.
3.19      Monitoring activities and responsibilities can be summarized as follows:
(a)  LME study (para. 3.5 above) would eventually monitor international waters
in the Yellow Sea and would be the responsibility of SOA.
(b)  Monitoring of coastal waters outside the ports' jurisdiction would be the
responsibility of SOA.
(c)  SEATRACK basic information would be the responsibility of the port's EPBs
with feed-in to a central office for control by HSA at MOC headquarters
in Beijing.
(d)  Monitoring the water quality inside the ports' jurisdiction would be the
responsibility of HSA in collaboration with the ports' EPBs.
(e)  Monitoring the quality of the water discharge and air on-land would be
the responsibility of the ports' EPBs.
The water monitoring activities would assess the quality of effluents from the
facilities, of the receiving waters into which the effluents are discharged (port
waters) and of waters which are no longer impacted as a result of the project
(adjacent coastal waters and sea lanes). The air monitoring activities would
include assessment of relevant stack emissions and air quality within the adjacent
surrounding areas. Monitoring parameters would be selected to-reflect the process
being assessed (e.g., petroleum hydrocarbons in discharges from oil-contaminated
water treatment facilities).
3.20      One objective of this project is to promote working relationships between
basic monitoring agencies, such as the National Environmental Protection Agency
(NEPA), the State Oceanographic Administration (SOA), and the Port Environmental
Monitoring Stations. This cooperation would include development of common sampling
and sample handling protocols, laboratory test methodologies, and quality assurance
protocols. The development of common techniques would facilitate a merger of
environmental data bases that would further the capability of NEPA and SOA improve
the marine environment quality reporting. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GOC and the Port Authorities that a coordinating team of



- 16 -
representatives of the concerned Port Authority. EPB. NEPA. and SOA will be
established at each port, as agreed with the Association. by December 31. 1992.
3.21      Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority.  All the Port Authorities,
with the exception of XPA, have institutional arrangements, typically organized as
an Environmental Protection Bureau reporting to a deputy director. These bureaus
are responsible for all activities related to the full range of environmental
issues, including air and water quality and the operation of pollution control
facilities and associated monitoring.
3.22      XPA has developed an organizational outline for an Environmental
Protection bureau, but at present has neither the resources nor the in-house
capability to implement the plan. Tasks which might be carried out by such a bureau
are undertaken by port staff as necessary on a temporary assignment basis.
3.23      As part of the project, technical assistance will be provided to XPA to
establish the proposed Bureau (see Draft Scope of Work in Attachment 6). This
assistance will include recommendations on staffing requirements, staff recruitment
and training, facility and equipment needs, and the setting up of an Environmental
Monitoring and Laboratory facility for the port. Durina negotiations. assurances
were obtained from XPA that it will establish, by June 30. 1993. an adeouatelv
staffed Environmental Protection Bureau, to supervise and operate the proposed
ships' waste disposal facilities.
C. Protect Cost
3.24      Cost Estimates.   The estimated cost of the project, in January 1992
prices, is $64.8 million (Table 3). This includes price escalation contingencies of
$2.54 million and a physical contingency allowance of $2.34 million. The cost
estimates are based on the cost of similar equipment and
facilities as well as designs prepared by the ports. The technical assistance will
involve approximately 38 staff-months. The project is exempt from import duties and
taxes. The costs are summarized below:
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
~~~~~ $ million ------  ---- RMB million -----
National Component
Monitoring and tracking            0.65      1.35    2.00    3.49    7.25   10.74
Technical assistance                  -      0.70    0.70      -      3.76    3.76
Subtotal                 .   0.65      2.05    2.70    j.49   11.01   14.50
Ports' Component
Disposal facilities             38.13    19.06   57.19  204.76  102.35  307.11
Technical assistance                -     0.03    0.03         -    0.16    0.16
Subtotal                    38.13    19.09   57.22  204.76  102.51  307.27
Base cost                    38.78    21.14   59.92  208.25  113.52  321.77
Contingencies:
Physical                         1.48     0.86    2.34    7.95    4.62   12.57
Price                            1.54     1.00    2.54    8.27    5.37   13.64
Total cost                   41.80    23.00   64.80  224.47  123.51  347.98



- 17 -
D. Financina
3.25      The project financing plan is summarized below.  It includes concessional
funding from the Global Environment Trust Fund (GEF) of $30 million and an IDA
Credit equivalent to $15 million, with the remainder covered by GOC and the
respective Port Authorities. GOC would be the borrower and would on-lend the
proceeds to the respective Port Authorities, except for money to be retained by MOC
for the national component. During neaotiations. assurances were obtained from GOC
that the credit Droceeds (excent for a small amount to be retained for MOCI will be
on-lent to the Port Authorities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, namely 1.5 percent interest per annum, repayable in 15 years, with 5
years, grace period. The Port Authorities will bear the commitment fee and the
foreign exchange risk.
Local     Foreign        Total
-------- $ million --------…
PRC                            19.8           -          19.8
GEF                            14.6        15.4          30.0
IDA                             7.4         7.6         15.0
Total                     41.8        23.0         64.8
E. Organization and Management
3.26      Proiect Implementation.  The project would be implemented and oper-
ated by the Environmental Protection Bureaus of the respective Port Authori-
ties. The project implementation schedule is shown in Schedule 2. The stud-
ies to develop oil spill contingency planning and chemically contaminated
water treatment processes would be implemented by the Environment Protection
Department of MOC working in conjunction with the Environment Protection
Bureaus of the six ports. The technical assistance to the Xiamen Port Author-
ity would be implemented by the Office of the Director of XPA. The monitoring
of the waters will be the responsibility of the EPBs, NEPS, HSA, and SOA, each
in its jurisdiction as previously outlined. Specifications for the equipment
needed are being prepared by the respective Port Authorities under MOC guid-
ance. The project will be closely supervised to ensure satisfactory implemen-
tation (see para. 3.32); the first-year will, in particular, require extra
supervision effort to ensure timely preparation of specifications and issuance
of tenders.
3.27      Procurement.  Civil works contracts will be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB), according to procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion, since they constitute small contracts which would not attract interna-
tional contractors. Very small contracts for civil works, to be agreed with
the Association, each costing $200,000 equivalent or less, and amounting to
less than $2.0 million equivalent in total, would be procured under contracts
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers under procedures acceptable to the Association. Contracts for equi-
pment valued at more than $200,000 equivalent will be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers of goods will receive a preference in bid



- 18 -
Procurement Method
Item                             ICB        LCB       Other        NIF       Total
…$------------      S million --------…---------
Civil works                     -         10.85        2.00       6.92      19.77
(IDA)                       _          (1.40)      -          -          (1.40)
(GEF)                       -          (1.53)      (0.54)     -          (2.07)
Equipment                      38.80       -           2.00       3.50      44.30
(IDA)                     (12.60)       -          (1.00)     -         (13.60)
(GEF)                     (26.20)       -          (1.00)     _         (27.20)
Technical assistance            -          -           0.73       -          0.73
(IDA)                       -                                             -
(GEF)                       -           -          (0.73)     -          (0.73)
Total                          38.80      10.85        4.73      10.42      64.80
(IDA)                     (12.60)      (1.40)      (1.00)               (15.00)
(GE?)                     (26.20)      (1.53)      (2.27)               (30.00)
Note:  Items in parentheses represent the portions financed by the IDA credit
and GEF grant, respectively.
NIF: Non-IDA/GEF Financed.
evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the amount of the import duty,
whichever is lower. Some small Items, to be agreed with the Association, each
costing less than $200,000 equivalent, and amounting to less than $2 million
equivalent in total, would be procured under conftracts after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three suppliers under proce-
dures acceptable to the Association. Contracts to be awarded under ICB, which
would not be less than 60 percent of the credit value, will be subject to the
Association's prior review of procurement documentation, as will proposed
contract awards. Consultants for the technical assistance will be recruited
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The project is expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1995, and the closing date would be June 30, 1996.
3.28      Disbursements.  All technical assistance and training costs would
be funded from GEF. Other expenditures would be covered from the IDA credit
and from the GEF grant and will cover (a) 27 percent of expenditures on civil
works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on imported goods, 100 percent
of expenditures for locally manufactured goods at ex-factory prices, and
75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (c)
100 percent for consultants' services and training. Disbursements will be on
the basis of full documentation except for reimbursement of expenditures for
(technical assistance and training and) contracts for civil works and goods
valued at less than $200,000 each, for which disbursements will be made
against statements of expenditure; supporting documents will be retained by
the six Port Authorities and made available for inspection by IDA staff. The
estimated disbursements are shown in Schedule C. To facilitate disbursement,
a joint special account to be maintained in US dollars would be established in
a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
authorized allocation to the Special Account is $3.0 million, representing
four months' average project expenditures to be channelled through the ac-
count. Replenishment would be made quarterly or whenever the account is drawn
down by about 50 percent of the initial deposit.



- 19 -
3.29      Accounts and Audit.  The accounting and record-keeping activities
at each of the six ports and the annual audits of their accounts by the State
Audit Administration are regularly being reviewed by Bank Group staff as part
of the supervision of ongoing projects. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from each port that (a) it will continue to submit its audited annual
financial statements to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each financial year, and (b) it will keep the accounts of the project
and will also submit to IDA the audited accounts of the annual project
expenditures not later than six months after the end of each financial year.
3.30      Ecologv and Environment.  Implementation of the project will
provide a net benefit to the local and global environment through the decrease
in discharges of ships' wastes in international waters adjacent to the coast
of China. To avoid simple transfer of the problem from the open sea to the
port, the project design has taken into consideration the need to ensure that
all wastes received are properly handled and treated: (a) residues from the
treatment of oily wastes will be recycled as many as possible or used as fuel
in heating plants or brick kilns; (b) sanitary sewage will be processed
through secondary treatment plants, as is now typically undertaken at the more
modern terminal facilities in the ports; (c) garbage and solid wastes will be
sorted with maximum possible recovery of recyclable materials or materials
used for compost.
3.31      Under current Chinese law, such facilities will have to comply with
environmental assessment procedures, including provision of an Environmental
Protection and Compliance Plan within an Environmental Management Structure.
The designs and bid documents for the waste collection and/or disposal facili-
ties will be prepared by the Design Institutes and will follow GOC environment
criteria and guidelines and will be reviewed by the Bank. These reviews will
be undertaken by the appropriate Port Environmental Protection Bureaus.
Liaison will be made with the appropriate Municipal Protection Bureau to
ensure that the designs meet current emission and effluent criteria. Standard
operating practice manuals issued by the port EPB will include elements of
occupational health and safety for port workers operating the treatment facil-
ities.
3.32      Reportino and Evaluation.  The project implementation schedule
shows key project activities and key project monitoring indicators. Ouarterlv
Progress reports will be submitted by the respective Port Authorities
according to a format acceptable to MOC and the Association; this was agreed
during negotiations. A final project completion report will be prepared by
MOC and submitted to the Association within six months of completion of the
project.
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND JUSTIFICATION
Financial Analysis
4.1       As already mentioned, the ports included in the project are already
being assisted under ongoing Bank Group loans and credits. Under the relevant
loan/credit agreements, the individual Port Authorities are required to gener-
ate sufficient funds internally from their operating revenues to cover their
debt service obligations, remittances to the Government, and allocations to
special funds. The ports are in compliance with this requirement, and their
financial performance continues to be good, despite some variations in traffic
performance for reasons beyond their control.



- 20 -
4.2       Key indicators summarizing the forecast funds flow for 1992 through
1995 are shown below. Details of the forecast, given in Tables 5 through 11,
show that the financial situation of the ports will be satisfactory and they
will continue to earn healthy surpluses. The ports are expected to continue
to generate sufficient funds internally to finance their ongoing and reason-
able future capital investment needs, including the provision of funds for the
timely implementation and subsequent operation of facilities included in the
project. During 1992-95, each of the Port Authority's contribution towards
its share of the project costs is expected to be met from the surpluses of its
regular port operations. The facilities financed under the project are
expected to start operations in 1995. The cash generation financial covenants
under the respective loan/credit agreements relating to ongoing projects at
each of the ports will continue to hold good. Assumptions used in the finan-
cial forecasts are given in Attachment 7.
PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE PROJECT--SUMMARY
(RMB million)
Tianjin   Huangpu   Dalian   Shanghai   Ningbo  Xiamen
Proposed Prolect
Capital investment       50.9       53.6      20.0     131.6       44.4    34.0
(proposed project)
External financing       35.7       37.6      14.0      92.4       31.2    22.9
Ports contribution       15.2       16.0       6'0      39.2       13.2    10.1
Net funds flow from
proposed project
in 1995                 4.5        4.8      1.8       10.3        3.9     4.3
Surplus (deficit)    (10.7)    (11.2)    (4.2)    (28.9)         (9.3)   (5.8)
Reaular port operations
Net funds flow:
Surplus (deficit)    109.1        81.5     79.7      302.6      100.9    80.5
Consolidated:
Net surplus/
(deficit)            98.4      7073 75.5           273.7      91.6    74.7
4.3       Since the proposed facilities and their operation and maintenance
are separate from the usual port activities, they would be treated as separate
cost and revenue centers.  Therefore, in order to maintain the financial
viability of this specific activity of handling ship wastes, new tariffs based
on cost recovery need to be developed for each port under a uniform tariff
structure. The revenue projections relating to the proposed facilities for
the year 1995 used in the accompanying tables are notional and are based on
the concept of full cost recovery. Durina neaotiations. assurance were ob-
tained from GOC and the six Port Authorities that an appropriate tariff sched-



- 21 -
ule based on cost recovery for each tvDe of waste handling and disposal ser-
vices would be develoved on the basis of terms of reference aareed with the
Association. submitted to the Association by June 30, 1994. for its comments.
and, takina into account the Association's comments, introduced in each of the
ports by June 30. 1995. A draft of the TOR is given in Attachment 8.
Benefits
4.4         The six ports selected for the project handle some 90 percent of
the international shipping serving the sea-borne foreign trade of the People's
Republic of China. In addition, these ports serve a significant portion of
the country's domestic maritime traffic. In several of the ports, the lack or
poor capability of waste reception facilities obliges the Port Authorities to
allow ships to discharge their wastes at sea or has created considerable
delays in serving the ships. This contributes to port inefficiency and to
pollution of both international and Chinese coastal waters. An economic
return analysis has not been attempted, as the benefits to China (and the
international community) are not directly measurable. However, provision of
the proposed facilities should contribute to a major improvement to the marine
environment quality and serve as a model for establishing similar facilities
in other Chinese ports.
Risks
4.5       The main risks relate to project implementation and cost recovery.
As this is a substantially new activity for most of the ports, technical
assistance through close project supervision will be provided to ensure satis-
factory implementation. As to cost recovery, PRC's record in the matter of
introducing adequate cost recovery mechanisms hag so far been good and GOC has
agreed that there would be no difficulty in the ports introducing a tariff
scheduled based on cost recovery for the new services.



- 22 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of the People's Republic of China and the Port Authorities on the following:
(a) GOC:
(i)  GOC will prepare by December 31, 1992, in consultation with the
Association, the TOR and the complete program for a study of
the Yellow Sea marine ecosystem (para. 3.6);
(ii) the chemically contaminated water treatment study will be com-
pleted by December 31, 1993, and the results implemented in
consultation with the Association (para. 3.8);
(iii) GOC will on-lend the proceeds of the credit to the respective
Port Authorities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.25);
(b)  Port Authorities:
(i)  the Guangzhou Port Authority will enter into arrangements sat-
isfactory to the Association with the Guangzhou Bureau of Mari-
time Transport Administration to handle the oily ballast and
bilge waters for all port users at the proposed BOMTA facility
at Xin Zhao (this will eliminate the need for a separate GPA
facility) (para. 2.16);
(ii) all six ports will have prepared and adopted an oil spill con-
tingency plan by July 31, 1994 (para. 3.5);
(iii) all six Port Authorities will develop their respective waste
management plans by December 31, 1992, send them for the
Association's review and comments, and implement them, taking
into account the Association's comments, by December 31, 1994
(para. 3.15);
(iv) the Xiamen Port Authority will establish, by June 30, 1993, an
adequately staffed Environmental Protection Bureau to supervise
and operate the proposed ships, waste disposal facilities
(para. 3.23); and
(v)  the six Port Authorities will submit quarterly progress reports
on the project according to a format acceptable to the Associa-
tion (para. '3.32).
(c) GOC and the Port Authorities jointly:
(i)  GOC and each of the Port Authorities will set up a coordinating
team of representatives of the concerned Port Authority, EPA,
NEPA, and SOA, as agreed with the Association, by December 31,
1992 (para. 3.20); and
(ii)  GOC and the Port Authorities will submit to the Association, by
June 30, 1994, a proposal for an appropriate tariff schedule,
based on cost recovery, for the services of the waste disposal
facilities; and this will be introduced by all six ports by



- 23 -
June 30, 1995, tai:ing into account the Association's comments
(para. 4.3).
5.2       Approval of the credit agreement by China's State Council, fulfill-
ment of conditions precedent to the GET Grant Agreement, and execution of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and DPA, TPA, SPA, NPA, GPA
and XPA, satisfactory to the Association, are conditions of effectiveness of
the credit.



- 24 -
SCHEDULE A
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.   Dalian Port Project, SAR No. 6588-CHA, January 5, 1988
2.   Tianjin Port Project, SAR No. 5856-CHA, March 17, 1986
3.   (i)  Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project, Shanghai Port, SAR No. 7257-CHA,
November 16, 1988
(ii) Ningbo Port, SAR No. 7297-CHA, November 16, 1988
4.   Huangpu Port Project, SAR No. 6230-CHA, August 28, 1987
5.   Xiamen Port Project, SAR No. 7296-CHA, Novomber 16, 1988
6.   Detailed List of Laboratory Equipment to be Funded under the Project.
7.   Laws and regulations in China regarding the protection of the
environment.



- 25 -
SCHEDULE B
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Action                      Responsibility        Starting      Completion
Date          Date
1. oil boom materials
material identification        Port Authorities      05/01/92       08/01/92
material sourcing              Port Authorities      07/01/92       09/01/92
approve purchase               HOC/Port Authorities 09/01/92        10/01/92
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      10/01/92       03/01/93
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      03/01/93       09/01/93
2. Oil water treatment facilities
prepare plans                  Port Authorities      05/01/92       09/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities      09/01/92       12/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 12/01/92        01/01/93
call LCB tenders               Port Authorities      02/01/93       04/01/93
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      02/01/93       06/01/93
initiate construction          Port Authorities      08/01/93       12/01/94
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      08/01/94       10/01/94
install equipment              Port Authorities      10/01/94       02/01/95
3. Sewage systems
prepare plans                  Port Authorities      05/01/92       09/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities      09/01/92       11/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 12/01/92        02/01/93
call LCB tenders               Port Authorities      03/01/93       06/01/93
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      03/01/93       08/01/93
initiate construction          Port Authorities      07/01/93       07/01/94
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      03/01/93       01/01/94
install equipment              Port Authorities      01/01/94       04/01/94
4. Garbage systems
prepare plans                   Port Authorities      05/01/92      08/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities      07/01/92       09/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 09/01/92        11/01/92



- 26 -
Action                      Responsibility         Starting     Completion
Date           Date
call LCB tenders           Port Authorities           11/01/92       03/01/93
call ICB tenders           Port Authorities           11/01/92       04/01/93
initiate construction      Port Authorities           04/01/93       04/01/94
purchase equipment         Port Authorities           05/01/93       12/01/93
install equipment          Port Authorities           01/01/94       04/01/94
5. Environmental monitoring stations
prepare plans              Port Authorities           05/01/92       08/01/92
prepare construction
specifications           Port Authorities          07/01/92       09/01/92
approve plans              MOC/Port Authorities       09/01/92       10/01/92
call LCB tenders           Port Authorities           10/01/92       01/01/93
call ICB tenders           Port Authorities           10/01/92       02/01/93
initiate construction   Port Authorities            12/01/92       12/01/93
purchase equipment         Port Authorities           02/01/93       12/01/93
install equipment          Port Authorities           12/01/93       02/01/94
staff training             Port Authorities           06/01/93       02/01/94
6. Oil Spill Contingency Planning Study
select consultant          HOC/IDA                    07/01/92       10/01/92
developing plan            MOC/consultant             01/0193       05101/93
staff training             MOC/consultant             06/01/93       12/01/93
equipment selection        MOC/consultant             01/01/94       05/01/94
7. Chemically Contaminated Waters Study
select consultant          MOC/IDA                    07/01/92       10/01/92
assess problem             MOC/consultant             11/01/92       01/01/93
develop effluent
criteria                 MOC/consultant             01/01/93       04/01/93
design system              HOC/consultant             04/01/93       08/01/94
8. Technical Assistance to XPA
select consultant          XPA/MOC/IDA                05/01/92       08/01/92
prepare plan               XPA/consultant             08/01/92       09/01/92
staff training             XPA/consultant             12/01/92       03/01/93
program implementation    XPA                         03/01/93       06/01/93



- 27 -                              SCHEDULE C
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a /b
IDA Fiscal             IDA                    GEF               Percent     Cumulative
Year & Quarter   Quarter  Cumulative   Quarter   Cumulative   IDA/GEF    Disbursement
Profile for
Transport Pro-
jects in China
1993
12/31/92               -         -         3.0           3.0         6.6             0.0
03/31/92               -         -         -             3.0         6.6
06/30/92               -         -         3.0           6.0        13.2             6.0
1994
09/30/93               -         -         6.0          12.0        26.7
12/31/93               -         -         6.0          18.0        40.0            11.0
03131/94               -         -         6.0          24.0        53.3
06/30/94               -         -         2.0          26.0        57.8            16.0
1995
09/30/94               3.0       3.0       2.0          28.0        68.9
12/31/94               3.0       6.0       2.0          30.0        80.0            24.0
03/31/95               3.0       9.0       -            30.0        86.7
06/30/95               1.0      10.0       -            30.0        88.9            31.0
1996
09/30/95               3.0     13.0        -            30.0        95.6
12/31/95               2.0     15.0        -            30.0       100.0            57.0
/a Because of limited scope of works which are supplementary to ongoing Bank Group
projects, this credit is exected to be disbursed much faster than country or regional
disbursement profiles. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1995, and the
closing date is June 30, 1996.
/b Disbursements from the IDA credit will begin following completion of disbursements
from the GEF grant.



- 28 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
International Convention for the Prevention
of Marine Pollution
1.        The International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution, known
simply as MARPOL 73/78, has currently five annexes covering discharges from ships. These
are:
-    Annex I:   Oily wastes - such as ballast water and slops from oil tankers;
oily bilge water from engine room and other spaces; fuel
residues; and waste oil.
-    Annex II:  Noxious liquid substances in bulk - tank residues after
discharge of cargo.
-    Annex III: Harmful substances carried in packaged form, in freight
containers, portable tanks.
-    Annex IV:  Sewage - This annex is not yet in force because of limited
sewage reception facilities at ports worldwide at present.
-    Annex V:   Garbage - including food wastes, plastics, oily rags, packing
materials and dunnage.
Certain sea areas have been designated by International Maritime
organization (IMO) through the Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC) as "Special
Areas' in view of their particular sensitivity to pollution and the need to protect very
valuable marine areas, species and shorelines. Currently, the Mediterranean, the North
Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and the Wider Caribbean are amongst areas designated as special.
Within these areas only certain wastes can be discharged from ships depending on which
MARPOL 73/78 Annex is concerned.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Summary of Present Situation and Recomended Actions
Item                     D li n                        Tianjin                      Shanghai                    Ningbo                  Qumngahou                      Xi amen
Oily Water
Current situation       Ballast voter treatment        Treatment vessel only         bTA ha. converted          Refinery terminal        malTA treats ita on          Port has no reception
at Crude Oil Terminal;         usable 601 of year.           tanker treating 2000       treats its  un           bWll.t *atsra using          or treatment facili-
bile* water enJ tank                                         tona/day.  SPA has         ballast waters           a convart.d tanher           ties.
wash treatment at Re-          Treatmnt capacity             limited number of          (10.000 tons/yr).         (400 tono/hr).
fined Oil Terminal.            helm requirements             treatment barges.
Large tankere at         Port hmndlee bile-
Facilities 15-yea old                                                                   anchorage die-           waters usin  sa
end need refurbishing;.                                                                 charee at men. as        collection  s-----
additional requirements                                                                 Port facilities          and treats at various
projected.                                                                              are inadequate.          private facilities.
Recommended            Refurbish e.ieting              Refurbihb emiating            Port to build no.          Port to build noe        Since 90hTA ie               Port to purcheas  now
action                 facilities to restore           bergs to restore              lani-based treatmnt        land-based treat-        building no. lend-           oil collection and
processing rate at Crude       trestment capacity to         facility for a00,000       sent facility for        bame  fcility   ort          treatment barge (200-
Terminal to 1000 tons-         w0 tone/hr                    tons/yr   ith room         ballaat waters (at       dOom not need its own        tonns capacity).
/hr.; Rfind Terminal                                         to eapand to C00.000         ilun)                  facility
to 400 tone/hr.                Port to have access to        tone (at                                                                         Purchase spill contain-
proposed Oil Terminal        waigeqiso).                Port to refurbish         Port to purchase ne         snt booms for routine
Purchase now spill con-         saliat mater treat-                                     maisting   -tonne        oil collection barge         usage during on/off-
tainment boom  for rou-        sent facility.                Convert another tan-       treatment barge.         and trat at biTA             loading.
tine usage during                                            bar for bsllaat-                                    facility.
on/off-loading.                Purchase spill con-           eater processing           Port to purchase
tainment boom  for           (300.000 tons/yr. at       300-500-tonne             Purchas  spill con-
New automatic sonitoriag       routine u-rpe during          Liuhubou).                 barge.                    tainmnt booms for
equipment for both             on/off-loading.                                                                   routine u-sao during
Terminals.                                                   Purchase spill con-        Purchase spill           on/off-loading.
tainment booms for         containment booms
routine usage during       for routine usage
on/off-loading,            during on/off-
Chemoicallw Contasinated Waters
Current situation       No tretent facilitios          No tre-t-ent facili-          No treatment facil-        Treatment fecili-        No treatnt                   No treatment facilities
ti--                         ities for bailst           ties for ballast          facilities
waters. emall-scale        waters at Bulb
treatment for con-         Chemical Plant
ainer mash.                (Zhenhai).
No treatment for
container wash at
Beilun or Zhenhai
Recommnded             Dosign facilitise for           Design facilities for         Design facilities          No need to uprad         No failitiem to be           No fsilitis to be
action                 organic contaminants.           organic contaminanta          for organic contain        Zhenhai facilities       built at this time,          built at this time.
from bhllst eaters at        inants from ballet         am traffic too
propomed Chemical            waters.                    low.                      Future plans for
Terminal,                                                                         chemical plants and
Dangerous Cargo Ter-
minal identify need
for otaff training.



Item                     Dalim                         Tianjin                       Shanghai                   Ningbo                  Gungehou                       XiMan
Saitary Simss
Current aituation       City has tresatmnt             Itinicipe ity haa no          *tinicieIity has Vtnicipslty has                    Iinicipality has  °o         ltw cipalqty has no
plenti Port be., no            treatment, elant; Port        eatensvew  collection      no facilities;           facilities.  Port            faciliti es.  Port.
fcilities for whips.          has no felities for         and treatment              Port unabl, to           unable to treat              usable to treat ahipa'
ships.                       system; port hba  no       treat ehipa               ahips' waste.              easte-.
facilities for             castes
abls..
RPeo_Eond              Connect to City *yatn.-         Enlaryp East Pier            Connect tereinsla to       Alteration of Iron        Purchase 2 collection       Build secondary treat-
action                                                 facility to accom-            City  ys-tem to ac-        Ore treatment fa-        barp.s (200-tonne ca-        _ent plant at Donggu
date ships' needs.           cordate at iy-'            cility for oeage          pacity).                    Tersinls.
needs,                     at 8eilun.
Build new facility for                                                            hu i Id scondary
South Side Terminals.                                   Connect to prc            trestment plant at
posed Zhenhai            Hong Shang She 1a-
district end port        land.
system.
Current situation       Adequate: Port trans-          Carbage noc barged to         Carbage noc barged         Garbage noc barged       Garbage now barged to        Grbage not collected.
fars  astes to City            tiunicipal incinerator,       to Port incinerator,       to Zhenhoi incin-         "all port incinera-
system, where they ore                                                                  arator.                  tor.
incinerated-                   Capacity inadequate.         Capacity inadequate.
Capecity in-ad-          Capacity inadequate.
spate.
Recemeended             None.                          Purchase new barge            Buil d two new in-         Purchase new 60-         Build new  incinerator       Purchaaa 100-ton capa-
action                                                  (100-ton capacity).          cinerators.                ton capn acity           at Hong Shang She,           city collection barge.
barge.                   Capacity 20
tonn- /day.                 Build new incinerator;
Build now 2000                                        capac ity 1 ton/day.
4.q. handling fa-
cility at Zhsnhai. 
Purchna   2 garbage
trucks.
Build now 10-
tonn-e/day incin-
era tor.
Oil-S&ill Contin-
Current situation       Plan d"6loru6d; uws old        No plan; do not unn           PlAn 4-elopad  6ut         No plan daevloped;       No plan developedi do        No plan developed- do
containmont booms on           Oil continment boome          not reviced; do not        do not use oal           not use oil cointain-        not us  oil conttai nnt
routine basis; no other        during off-loading; no        uae oil contaeinwant       ctontinment boome        sent booms during            boomas dur'nn  off-load-
equipsnt for rpona.-           eouipnt for                   booms during off-          during off-load-         of -loadin ; no              ing. no equipment for
response..laig  2 old                                   ;ng; no equipasnt          quipmenti brsill           spill rsponse
as iamer  for spill        for spill                rasponsi.
r.eponse.                  response.



It.,                     DOlian                       Tianjin                      Shanohai                   Nin;bo                  Quangahou                     Xis..
Rscoused               Review cm,tinency plan.        Review continvency           Review contingency         Develop contin-          Develop contingency         D.evlop contingency
action                                                plan.                        plan.                      gency plan.              plan.                       plan.
Purchaen oil boo, slick
I icker;  bslorbenti          Purchase oil boom;           Purchase oil boom;         Purchas  oil boom;       Purchase oil boo.;          Purchase oil boom;
cosmunications eqump-          slick lickers; ab-           slick licker.; ab-        slick lickera; ab-       slick lickers; absor-       slick  lickers; absor-
sent; sork boats.              sorbent; eomunics-           sorbent; communics-        sorbent; co_muni-       bent; communications        bent; communications
tione equipment; work       tions equipment;           cations equipsent;       equipment; work             equipment; work boats.
boat.                        work boats,               work boat.               bosts.
Env izr-nt Lab-
oratory
Currant Situation      Need additional oil            Limited to analytical        Old analyticeal and        Liaitsd laboratory       No laboratory or            No lsboratorq or
testing equipsent.             and sampling equip-          sampling equipe,nt.       and sampling             saspling equipsnt.          esapling equipment
ent.                                                   equipsent of
Zhanh i.
Reeomended             Purchne oil testing            Purchase needed equip-       Purchase needed            Purchase needed          Purchsses needed            Purchase needed equip-
ection                 squipsent.                     sent.                        equipment.                 equipment.               equipsl nt.  Complete       snt.
building.



- 32 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Note on Large Marine Ecosystem Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        LMEs, or Large M4arine Ecosystems, are relatively large areas of the
global exclusive economic zones, generally more than 200,000 km2, character-
ized by unique bathymetry, hydrography, and productivity, within which marine
populations have adapted to suitable reproductive, feeding and growth strate-
gies. LMEs are thus naturally existing ecological units of ocean space.
2.        On a global basis, nearly 95 percent of the biomass yields from the
oceans are from the currently identified LMEs, currently some 50 in number.
This demarcation provides a convenient and manageable mechanism for improved
international cooperation in marine monitoring, modelling and management.
Wile important work remains to be done in identifying the various forces which
control biomass yields and fluctuations in individual LMEs, the expertise and
technology needed to answer these questions is at hand. These are among areas
that are becoming increasingly stressed from pollution, natural environment
perturbation, and overexploitation of living resources.
3.        The LME approach is being increasingly used by international agen-
cies as a more manageable way of tackling ocean pollution problems, although
this too has its drawbacks as some LMEs need the cooperative efforts of a very
large number of countries; for example, the Caribbean Sea is shared by 38
countries. It is planned to initiate the application of this approach to the
Yellow and China Seas under the proposed ship waste project.
Study Objectives
4.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) assess the state of marine pollution;
(b)  assess the impacts that coastal development activities, including
the current ship waste disposal project, may have on the marine
environment or on the protection and use of renewable marine
resources on a sustainable basis; and
(c) develop a sound basis for continuous monitoring of the marine envi-
ronment.
Scope of Work
5.        Run the production-pollution-biodiversity monitoring module, which
involves the use of continuous plankton recorders (CPR). CPR are towed behind
ships-of-opportunity (commercial vessels) making quantitative collections of
phytoplankton and zooplankton while also measuring up to 18 oceanographic
variables including: temperature; turbidity; chlorophyll a; bioluminescence;
petrogenic hydrocarbons; salinity; upwelling and downwelling irradiance; dis-
solved oxygen; and nitrates and nitrites. This suite of measurements, along
with the plankton collections, allows oceanographers to determine the general



- 33 -
health and productivity of the ecosystem as well as providing indications of
changes in biodiversity.
6.        The monitoring program should include collection of comprehensive
information on fish populations in the LME. This can be accomplished through
the use of small, inexpensive chartered trawling vessels, hired locally, which
collect samples of pelagic and demersal fishes. These fish are examined for
gross pathology including tumors and lesions which have been shown in many
other LMEs to be indicative of excessive marine pollution levels. In addi-
tion, fish age, growth and reproductive characteristics are determined. This
provides information on general stock health and indicates whether fish
resources in the LME are in a state of increase or decline. This type of
information is particularly important in an LME such as the Yellow Sea where
the human population depends very heavily upon local fish stocks as a source
of healthful, inexpensive protein.
Schedules
7.        Schedules of implementation should be prepared and adequate staff-
ing provided for.
Cost Estimate
8.        The cost estimate of the study should be detailed and explained to
facilitate seeking assistance from international institutions.



- 34 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Oil Spill Contingency Planning and Response Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The proposed technical assistance and institutional development
component for oil spill contingency planning and response supports China's
program under MARPOL. While China and its ports have recognized the potential
problems of oil spills, they lack the expertise to develop complete contin-
gency plans, adequately train staff and select appropriate equipment. All of
the ports reviewed handle considerable quantities of petroleum hydrocarbons,
as bc'h crude oil and refined products, with projected increases in both the
volume and size of the carriers being handled. Table 1 provides data for the
six ports for the past three years. Of the six ports surveyed, only DPA
deploys oil booms around the tankers during loading and off-loading.
2.        Contingency plans developed for the Ports of Dalian and Shanghai
are elementary in concept and place emphasis on response organization and
equipment needs. Identification of ecologically-sensitive areas, potential
problems for water users (e.g., cooling water intakes, fishing areas),
available staff and disposal of collected materials) has not been considered.
Further, such plans have been developed in each port and therefore lack a
consistency which a "generic" model would provide; i.e., each port has had to
develop its own plan. Accordingly, this project would provide technical
assistance to MOC to develop a national center under the Harbor Superintenden-
cy Branch which presently has the institutional authority to assume command of
spill response. It is proposed that this agency would also assume responsi-
bility for providing general guidance on contingency planning, staff training
in both contingency planning and spill response, and provide a central
"clearing house" for news and information. As necessary, this agency could
also coordinate equipment and manpower from several ports in the event of a
major spill.
3.        The second task within this project will be the provision of
technical assistance to develop a "generic" contingency plan and to tailor
this plan to the specific needs of the six ports. This will provide two
benefits: (a) provision of a "generic" plan which the Harbor Superintendency
can then adapt to specific needs in conjunction with concerned port; and (b)
training of the central agency and port staff during the development of these
plans.
4.        The third element is the provision of staff training in spill
response. Although China is anxious to have the capability to respond to
spills and leakage, it was recognized that many of the ports lacked staff
trained in spill response and the use of spill response equipment and chemi-
cals. Training manuals and videos will be used and information packages will
remain with the central agency for translation and distribution to the Port
Authorities.
5.        With the completion of training of staff, the final phase of the
technical assistance will consist of identification of equipment appropriate
to the needs of each port. Efforts will be made to ensure nationwide consis-
tency in equipment selection so that in the event of a major spill, manpower
and equipment can be transferred to the spill site, thereby providing a very



- 35 -
large assemblage of equipment. Part of the equipment selection task will be
the development of a schedule of training exercises, staff refresher courses,
and staff upgrading courses.
6.        The sub-project will be undertaken by consultants to be hired under
the project for about 30 staff-months. An allocation of $450,000 is included
in the project for this purpose.



- 36 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chemically-Contaminated Water Treatment Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        Import and export of chemical cargoes, as both bulk and as contain-
erized cargo, is becoming an increasingly important cargo type for the six
ports reviewed. Many of the actual or proposed cargoes are of a petrochemical
base, such as benzene, xylene, toluene or chemical feedstocks for plastics or
industrial goods manufacturing (e.g., alkane alcohols, ethylene glycol). This
cargo increase introduces the problem of treatment and discharge of ballast,
bilge and tank wash waters and wash waters from containers that are contami-
nated due to the chemical cargoes. Under MARPOL Annex 2. ports are obliged to
provide adequate reception and treatment facilities. While the Port
Authorities readily recognized the need for facilities, they lack the exper-
tise to identify, install and operate appropriate facilities. There was also
the problem of the variable nature of the cargoes handled; e.g., the Port of
Dalian imports 17-20 different major chemicals.
2.        Of the six project ports, only the Port of Ningbo has developed
extensive reception and treatment facilities for chemically-contaminated
waters. The facilities, located in the Zhenhai Terminals, are capable of
neutralizing acids and treating volatile chemicals, such as benzene and more
complex chemicals, such as ethylene glycol. However, the facility is
presently used mostly for importing of cargoes, thus generating little need
for the facility. This has resulted in deterioration of the equipment and a
need for refurbishing.
3.        Only the Port of Shanghai has developed simple exchange systems to
treat water used to clean containers used for shipment of chemical cargoes.
These systems have a small treatment capacity and are used primarily to remove
traces of chemicals.
4.        The proposed project will include a study to assess and develop a
treatment system for chemically-contaminated waters. The study will be
divided into three phases:
(a) assess the nature and quantities of chemical cargoes now or projec-
ted to be handled through the ports;
(b) joint development with staff from MOC and NEPA to
designate effluent criteria for the chemical substances
contaminating the ballast, bilge and wash waters;
(c) design a treatment system that will be "generic" and modular in
structure, so that it can be tailored to best handle the different
types and quantities of chemicals handled in each port.
5.        The project will require consultant expertise to undertake the
three tasks for approximately 16 staff-months. An allocation of $250,000 is
included for this purpose.



- 37 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The Xiamen Port Authority does not have at present an Environmental
Protection Bureau to undertake its portion of the project. However, XPA has
developed the organizational outline for an Environmental Protection Bureau,
but lacks the expertise and resources to recruit staff and implement an
Environmental Monitoring Facility.
2.        As part of the understandings on this project, XPA has agreed to
establish and staff the proposed Environmental Protection Bureau. As part of
this project, technical assistance will be given to XPA to assist in the com-
pletion of three tasks:
(a) identification of staffing requirements;
(b) staff training; and
(c) identification of facilities and equipment for the Environmental
Monitoring and Laboratory facility.
3.        The technical assistance will be provided by an expert/consultant
hired for not more than two months to undertake the three tasks. A sum of
$30,000 is included under the project for the purpose. Implementation of the
recommended facilities is also provided for under the project.



- 38 -
CHIN
SHIP WASTS DISPOSAL PROJECT
Assumntions Used in the Financial Evaluation
1.        The updated financial information for years 1989 and 1990 has been
obtained from audit reports and/or latest estimates.
2.        The annual projections for years 1991 through 1995 are based on the
above-updated financial information and are calculated as follows:
Operating revenues      SAR ' growth rates
operating expenses      SAR rates of increases
Interest expense        SAR updated
Non-operating items:   SAR updated
Taxes and payments      Based on 1990 rate applied to future not
to state             operating incomes
Depreciation            SAR updated
State contribution      SAR updated
Borrowings              SAR updated
Applications            SAR Updated
3.        The completed project facilities are expected to start operations
in 1995 and the assumptions relating to operating expenses and interest and
revenues are as follows:
Eximnses
Operating and maintenance expenses:   10% of capital investment costs
Depreciation                            10% of capital investment costs
Interest                               IDA credit relent at 5% p.a. for 20
years with 5 years grace
Revenues Based on full cost recovery
i.e., full annual operating and maintenance costs
full annual depreciation
Repayment of onlent IDA credit to start in year 1997, i.e., after 5-year grace
period.
Ports' contribution to project investment costs - met from net funds flow of
regular port operations.
Staff Appraisal Reports (SAR) referred to above are the following:
Tianjin Port (Ln 2689-CHA); SAR No. 5856 CHA)
Buangpu Port (Ln 2877-CHA; Cr 1845-CHA; SAR No. 6230-CHA)
Dalian Port (Ln 2907-CHA, Cr 1875-C8A; SAR No. 6588-CHA)
Shanghai Port (Ln 3006-C8A; SAR No. 7257-CHA)
Ningbo Port (Ln 3006-CHA; SAR No. 7297-CHA)
Xiamen Port (Ln 3007-CHA; SAR No. 7296-CHA)



- 39 -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Establishinc a
Costina and Tariff System for
Waste Reception and Disposal Services
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of China (GOC) has decided to introduce a program of
environmental measures in six ports, viz.: Tianjin, Huangpu, Dalian.
Shanghai, Ningbo and Xiamen.
2.        This will be achieved by providing operating facilities and systems
in each port for the reception, treatment and disposal of ships' wastes in an
environmentally sound manner in accordance with international conventions. An
important requirement is that GOC and the Port Authorities operate the facili-
ties in a financially viable manner, including the introduction of a tariff
schedule based on full-cost recovery and appropriate commercial practice and
the maintenance of sound accounting and costing practices with regard to the
ships' wastes disposal program.
II. OBJECTIVES
3.        The purpose of the consultancy services is to:
(a) Design a tariff structure based on each function, activity or
service such as reception, treatment, and disposal involved in the
handling of the ships, wastes based on cost recovery for each type
of waste and additionally design tariff levels/unit rates for each
function, activity or service mentioned above. The tariff struc-
ture would be uniform for all the ports but the tariff levels/unit
rates would vary from port to port;
(b) Develop operating accounts and accounts classifications (cost/
service/revenue centers) at each port to record costs and revenues
relating to each type of waste and the function, activity or ser-
vice involved so that tariff levels/rates can be established with
the full knowledge of the total costs for such function, activity
or service;
(c) Publish a tariff manual and a cost accounting manual setting forth
the applicable policies, procedures, classifications, definitions,
and tariff categories and rates.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
General
4.        The consultants shall carry out according to internationally accep-
ted standards their assignment and their investigations, formulations of con-



- 40 -
capts, conclusions, designs and recommendations, implementation of tariff and
cost accounting systems, and the training of staff in order to achieve the
objectives set forth in Section II above. The consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Port Authorities and the Government agencies in the performance
of their work, it being understood that the latter two will provide all rele-
vant technical, financial, statistical and other data, studies and reports.
The consultants shall review in detail the information, in particular any
tariff, accounting and cost studies already carried out in connection with the
ongoing projects financed by the World Bank Group at these ports, and make use
of such studies. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however, for
the analysis and interpretation of all information received, and for the find-
ings, conclusions and recommendations made by them.
Work Program
5.        The work program is to be carried out in three sequential stages:
Stage 1
6.        The consultants shall:
(a) first familiarize themselves with the prevailing practices and
policies at each port regarding tariff schedules and accounting
systems;
(b) design and recommend a new sschedule of tariff structure and levels
for the ships' wastes handling operations at each port. The tariff
structure should consist of categories for each type of wastes such
as oily wastes, chemicals, sewage, garbage, etc., under each func-
tion, activity or service, such as reception, treatment and dispos-
al of these wastes and should be uniform for all the ports. The
tariff levels/unit rates for each tariff category should take into
account the full cost of the function, activity or service (arrived
at through cost/service/revenue centers) including cost of capital
and the financial objectives of each port. The tariff levels/rates
would vary from port to port;
(c) design and recommend a double-entry activity and accrual based cost
accounting system and accounts classifications to record the cost
of the ships' wastes handling operations at each port on a uniform
basis. The system should provide for functional accounts based on
cost/service/revenue centers covering the full range of operations
such as reception treatment and disposal for each type of waste,
and character of expense types such as salaries and benefits,
materials and supplies, purchased services, depreciation, interest,
etc. The costing system should also develop and provide statisti-
cal information on operating plans and actuals, capacity utiliza-
tion, etc. The objectives of the cost breakdown should be the
availability of information for the control of costs through im-
provements in productivity, the provision of costs for each catego-
ry or type of operation for determining total costs of an operation
and for developing analytical details for determining productivity
and performance levels. The recommended system should be capable
of mechanization and full integration into the existing accounting
systems and procedures.
(d) it would be entirely appropriate for the consultants to consider
various alternatives of incentives built into the tariff schedule
and recommend one which would encourage ships to use the wastes



- 41 -
handling facilities at each of the ports and thus would best serve
the achievement of the project's objectives. Such alternatives may
include: (i) in the early years of operation, say for a trial
period of five years, the tariffs could be designed to cover just
the variable costs and a portion of the fixed costs, thus providing
a stimulant for the ships to get into the habit of using the new
facilities; (ii) designing a system for the determination of quan-
tities of wastes on the basis of what would be the total accumula-
tion of various types of wastes in a ship from the time the ship
left the previous port of call where facilities for ships' wastes
handling are available to the time of its arrival at the Chinese
port concerned, etc.
However, the enforcement of environmental safeguards (including the
deterrents/penalties against the dumping of ships' wastes) under
the national laws and/or international conventions to which China
subscribe would come under the regulatory responsibilities of
governmental and/or parastatal agencies. While such activities
reinforce the objectives underlying the tariff policies, they do
not play any direct role in the formulation or calculation of the
tariff structure and levels. In this respect, the consultants
should look into the adequacy of the deterrents and penalties as
inducement towards achieving the objectives of the project. They
should, for example, ascertain whether the deterrents and penalties
are strong enough to prevent dumping of the wastes at sea, or
whether the level of the deterrents and penalties are so low that
ships may find it convenient to dump and to pay the penalties.
(e) prepare (i) a tariff manual setting forth the policies and proce-
dures of tariff setting, a general tariff structure for all the
ports and individual tariff rates for each port, and (ii) a cost
accounting manual setting forth a coded chart of accounts and defi-
nitions, descriptions of cost classifications, methods and proce-
dures.
Stage 2
7.        The consultants shall help implement the above recommendations on
tariff schedule and cost accounting system upon approval by GOC and the Port
Authorities. The consultants shall also train the port staff in the concepts
and operational techniques relevant to each system. Such training shall
include on-the-job, classroom and other training. The consultants shall in
addition recommend other methods of training including specialized training
abroad and familiarization visits to ports where similar operations exist.
Stage 3
8.        The consultants shall visit the ports on a follow-up basis within
12 months after the implementation of the work program under Stage 2 to ensure
that the tariff schedule and cost accounting system are working satisfac-
torily; in particular that the staff are fully familiar with and capable of
operating all aspects of the tariff and costing systems and that they clearly
understand the relationships between the two systems.



- 42 -
IV. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTANTS' SERVICES AND REPORTS
9.        The assignment would cover a total of about nine staff months as
follows. Commencing on or about March 1, 1992, the consultants would provide
inputs of: one month for the familiarization review, two months for designing
and recommending the new tariff schedule and cost accounting system, five
months for implementing the new systems and training ports staff; and, one
month for a follow-up visit after the start of operations of the new facili-
ties. The new system is expected to be fully operational by December 31,
1994.
10.       The consultants shall commence work within 30 calendar days of the
effective date of the services contract. The following reports should be
prepared and submitted within the time limit indicated below:
(a) an Inception Report within three months (or as otherwise agreed) of
the starting date describing the consultants' initial findings,
outlining the methodology to be employed and listing preliminary
proposals, plans and programs and bar charts showing breakdown of
work by individuals responsible and by components and their time
frame (number of copies of the report and their distribution to be
defined);
(b) an Interim Report within six months of the starting date (or as
otherwise agreed) summarizing all work performed, the consultants'
findings and recommendations and bar charts showing progress of
work and work completion schedule (number of copies of the report
and their distribution to be defined);
(c) a Final Report within 12 months of the starting date or on comple-
tion of assignment (or as otherwise agreed) incorporating all revi-
sions to and updating of the interim report and summary of
additional work performed, the consultants' findings and recommen-
dations and bar charts showing work performed by individual respon-
sibilities and by components together with copies of the tariff and
cost accounting manuals referred to in Section III, stage I (d)
above (number of copies of the report and the manuals and their
distribution to be defined).
V. ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, TARIFFS, ACCOUNTING, PERSONNEL,STATISTICAL
(INCLUDING SHIP MOVEMENTS), AND TECHNICAL DATA AVAILABLE
11.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide consultants all
existing data, studies and reports.
VI. COOPERATION OF GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES AND COUNTERPARTS
12.       In connection with work by the consultants that require the cooper-
ation of other governmental agencies or authorities, the individual Port
Authorities are to provide liaison and to ensure that the consultants have
access to all information required for the completion of the work program.
13.       The individual Port Authorities are to assign, on a full-time
basis, appropriate counterparts to work with the consultants for the purposes
of liaison, training, prompt review of the findings and recommendations of the
consultants, and the implementation of approved recommendations.



- 43 -
VII. FACILITIES AND SUPPORTING STAFF OR THE CONSULTANTS
14.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide the following
facilities and staff to help the consultants in performing the services:
(a) office space and furniture;
(b) transportation within China, and
(c) utilities, telephone and telex services (to be determined).
15.       The individual Port Authorities are to assist the consultants in
locating satisfactory and appropriate hotel or other living accommodations in
the vicinity of each port.



- 44 -
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Oil Spill Contingency Planning and Response Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The proposed technical assistance and institutional development
component for oil spill contingency planning and response supports China's
program under MARPOL. While China and its ports have recognized the potential
problems of oil spills, they lack the expertise to develop complete contin-
gency plans, adequately train staff and select appropriate equipment. All of
the ports reviewed handle considerable quantities of petroleum hydrocarbons,
as both crude oil and refined products, with projected increases in both the
volume and size of the carriers being handled. Table 1 provides data for the
six ports for the past three years. Of the six ports surveyed, only DPA
deploys oil booms around the tankers during loading and off-loading.
2.        Contingency plans developed for the Ports of Dalian and Shanghai
are elementary in concept and place emphasis on response organization and
equipment needs. Identification of ecologically-sensitive areas, potential
problems for water users (e.g., cooling water intakes, fishing areas),
available staff and disposal of collected materials) has not been considered.
Further, such plans have been developed in each port and therefore lack a
consistency which a "generic" model would provide; i.e., each port has had to
develop its own plan. Accordingly, this project would provide technical
assistance to HOC to develop a national center under the Harbor Superintenden-
cy Branch which presently has the institutional authority to assume command of
spill response. It is proposed that this agency would also assume responsi-
bility for providing general guidance on contingency planning, staff training
in both contingency planning and spill response, and provide a central
"clearing house' for news and information. As necessary, this agency could
also coordinate equipment and manpower from several ports in the event of a
major spill.
3.        The second task within this project will be the provision of
technical assistance to develop a 'generic' contingency plan and to tailor
this plan to the specific needs of the six ports. This will provide two
benefits: (a) provision of a 'generic' plan which the Harbor Superintendency
can then adapt to specific needs in conjunction with concerned port; and (b)
training of the central agency and port staff during the development of these
plans.
4.        The third element is the provision of staff training in spill
response. Although China is anxious to have the capability to respond to
spills and leakage, it was recognized that many of the ports lacked staff
trained in spill response and the use of spill response equipment and chemi-
cals. Training manuals and videos will be used and information packages will
remain with the central agency for translation and distribution to the Port
Authorities.



- 45 -
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 2 of 2
5.        With the completion of training of staff, the final phase of the
technical assistance will consist of identification of equipment appropriate
to the needs of each port. Efforts will be made to ensure nationwide consis-
tency in equipment selection so that in the event of a major spill, manpower
and equipment can be transferred to the spill site, thereby providing a very
large assemblage of equipment. Part of the equipment selection task will be
the development of a schedule of training exercises, staff refresher courses,
and staff upgrading courses.
6.        The sub-project will be undertaken by consultants to be hired under
the project for about 30 staff-months. An allocation of $450,000 is included
in the project for this purpose.



- 46 -
ATTACHMENT 5
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Large Marine Ecosystem Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        LMEs, or Large Marine Ecosystems, are relatively large areas of the
global exclusive economic zones, generally more than 200,000 km , character-
ized by unique bathymetry, hydrography, and productivity, within which marine
populations have adapted to suitable reproductive, feeding and growth strate-
gies. LMEs are thus naturally existing ecological units of ocean space.
2.        On a global basis, nearly 95 percent of the biomass yields from the
oceans are from the currently identified LMEs, currently some 50 in number.
This demarcation provides a convenient and manageable mechanism for improved
international cooperation in marine monitoring, modelling and management.
Wile important work remains to be done in identifying the various forces which
control biomass yields and fluctuations in individual LMEs, the expertise and
technology needed to answer these questions is at hand. These are among areas
that are becoming increasingly stressed from pollution, natural environment
perturbation, and overexploitation of living resources.
3.        The LME approach is being increasingly used by international agen-
cies as a more manageable way of tackling ocean pollution problems, although
this too has its drawbacks as some LMEs need the cooperative efforts of a very
large number of countries; for example, the Caribbean Sea is shared by 38
countries. It is planned to initiate the application of this approach to the
Yellow and China Seas under the proposed ship waste project.
Study Objectives
4.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) assess the state of marine pollution;
(b) assess the impacts that coastal development activities, including
the current ship waste disposal project, may have on the marine
environment or on the protection and use of renewable marine
resources on a sustainable basis; and
(c) develop a sound basis for continuous monitoring of the marine envi-
ronment.
Scope of Work
5.        Run the production-pollution-biodiversity monitoring module, which
involves the use of continuous plankton recorders (CPR). CPR are towed behind
ships-of-opportunity (commercial vessels) making quaz1titative collections of
phytoplankton and zooplankton while also measuring up to 18 oceanographic



- 47 -                     ATTACHMENT 5
Page 2 of 2
variables including: temperature; turbidity; chlorophyll a; bioluminescence;
petrogenic hydrocarbons; salinity; upwelling and downwelling irradiance; dis-
solved oxygen; and nitrates and nitrites. This suite of measurements, along
with the plankton collections, allows oceanographers to determine the general
health and productivity of the ecosystem as well as providing indications of
changes in biodiversity.
6.        The monitoring program should include collection of comprehensive
information on fish populations in the LME. This can be accomplished through
the use of small, inexpensive chartered trawling vessels, hired locally, which
collect samples of pelagic and demersal fishes. These fish are examined for
gross pathology including tumors and lesions which have been shown in many
other LMEs to be indicative of excessive marine pollution levels. In addi-
tion, fish age, growth and reproductive characteristics are determined. This
provides information on general stock health and indicates whether fish
resources in the LME are in a state of increase or decline. This type of
information is particularly important in an LME such as the Yellow Sea where
the human population depends very heavily upon local fish stocks as a source
of healthful, inexpensive protein.
Schedules
7.        Schedules of implementation should be prepared and adequate staff-
ing provided for.
Cost Estimate
8.        The cost estimate of the study should be detailed and explained to
facilitate seeking assistance from international institutions.



- 48 -
ATTACHMENT 6
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        Import and export of chemical cargoes, as both bulk and as contain-
erized cargo, is becoming an increasingly important cargo type for the six
ports reviewed. Many of the actual or proposed cargoes are of a petrochemical
base, such as benzene, xylene, toluene or chemical feedstocks for plastics or
industrial goods manufacturing (e.g., alkane alcohols, ethylene glycol). This
cargo increase introduces the problem of treatment and discharge of ballast,
bilge and tank wash waters and wash waters from containers that are contami-
nated due to the chemical cargoes. Under MARPOL Annex 2, ports are obliged to
provide adequate reception and treatment facilities. While the Port
Authorities readily recognized the need for facilities, they lack the exper-
tise to identify, install and operate appropriate facilities. There was also
the problem of the variable nature of the cargoes handled; e.g., the Port of
Dalian imports 17-20 different major chemicals.
2.        Of the six project ports, only the Port of Ningbo has developed
extensive reception and treatment facilities for chemically-contaminated
waters. The facilities, located in the Zhenhai Terminals, are capable of
neutralizing acids and treating volatile chemicals, such as benzene and more
complex chemicals, such as ethylene glycol. However, the facility is
presently used mostly for importing of cargoes, thus generating little need
for the facility. This has resulted in deterioration of the equipment and a
need for refurbishing.
3.        Only the Port of Shanghai has developed simple exchange systems to
treat water used to clean containers used for shipment of chemical cargoes.
These systems have a small treatment capacity and are used primarily to remove
traces of chemicals.
4.        The proposed project will include a study to assess and develop a
treatment system for chemically-contaminated waters. The study will be
divided into three phases:
(a) to assess the nature and quantities of chemical cargoes now or pro-
jected to be handled through the ports;
(b) to designate, jointly with staff from MOC and NEPA, effluent crite-
ria for the chemical substances contaminating the ballast, bilge
and wash waters;



- 49 -
ATTACHMENT 6
PAge 2 of 2
(c) to design a treatment system that will be generic" and modular in
structure, so that it can be tailored to best handle the different
types and quantities of chemicals handled in each port.
5.        The project will require consultant expertise to undertake the
three tasks for approximately 16 staff-months. An allocation of $250,000 is
included for this purpose.



- 50 -
ATTACHMENT 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The Xiamen Port Authority does not have at present an Environmental
Protection Bureau to undertake its portion of the project. However, XPA has
developed the organizational outline for an Environmental Protection Bureau,
but lacks the expertise and resources to recruit staff and implement an
Environmental Monitoring Facility.
2.        As part of the understandings on this project, XPA has agreed to
establish and staff the proposed Environmental Protection Bureau. As part of
this project, technical assistance will be given to XPA to assist in the com-
pletion of three tasks:
(a) identification of staffing requirements;
(b) staff training; and
(c)  identification of facilities and equipment for the Environmental
Monitoring and Laboratory facility.
3.        The technical assistance will be provided by an expert/consultant
hired for not more than two months to undertake the three tasks. A sum of
$30,000 is included under the project for the purpose. Implementation of the
recommended facilities is also provided for under the project.



- 51 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Establishing a
Costing and Tariff System for
Waste Reception and Disposal Services
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of China (GOC) has decided to introduce a program of
environmental measures in six ports, viz.: Tianjin, Huangpu, Dalian,
Shanghai, Ningbo and Xiamen.
2.        This will be achieved by providing operating facilities and systems
in each port for the reception, treatment and disposal of ships' wastes in an
environmentally sound manner in accordance with international conventions. An
important requirement is that GOC and the Port Authorities operate the facili-
ties in a financially viable manner, including the introduction of a tariff
schedule based on full-cost recovery and appropriate commercial practice and
the maintenance of sound accounting and costing practices with regard to the
ships' wastes disposal program.
II. OBJECTIVES
3.        The purpose of the consultancy services is to:
(a) Design a tariff structure based on each function, activity or
service such as reception, treatment, and disposal involved in the
handling of the ships' wastes based on cost recovery for each type
of waste and additionally design tariff levels/unit rates for each
function, activity or service mentioned above. The tariff struc-
ture would be uniform for all the ports but the tariff levels/unit
rates would vary from port to port;
(b) Develop operating accounts and accounts classifications (cost/
service/revenue centers) at each port to record costs and revenues
relating to each type of waste and the function, activity or ser-
vice involved so that tariff levels/rates can be established with
the full knowledge of the total costs for such function, activity
or service;
(c) Publish a tariff manual and a cost accounting manual setting forth
the applicable policies, procedures, classifications, definitions,
and tariff categories and rates.



- 52 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 2 of 5
III. SCOPE OF WORK
General
4.        The consultants shall carry out according to internationally accep-
ted standards their assignment and their investigations, formulations of con-
cepts, conclusions, designs and recommendations, implementation of tariff and
cost accounting systems, and the training of staff in order to achieve the
objectives set forth in Section II above. The consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Port Authorities and the Government agencies in the performance
of their work, it being understood that the latter two will provide all rele-
vant technical, financial, statistical and other data, studies and reports.
The consultants shall review in detail the information, in particular any
tariff, accounting and cost studies already carried out in connection with the
ongoing projects financed by the World Bank Group at these ports, and make use
of such studies. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however, for
the analysis and interpretation of all information received, and for the find-
ings, conclusions and recommendations made by them.
Work Program
5.        The work program is to be carried out in three sequential stages:
Stage 1
6.        The consultants shall:
(a) first familiarize themselves with the prevailing practices and
policies at each port regarding tariff schedules and accounting
systems;
(b) design and recommend a new schedule of tariff structure and levels
for the ships' wastes handling operations at each port. The tariff
structure should consist of categories for each type of wastes such
as oily wastes, chemicals, sewage, garbage, etc., under each func-
tion, activity or service, such as reception, treatment and dispos-
al of these wastes and should be uniform for all the ports. The
tariff levels/unit rates for each tariff category should take into
account the full cost of the function, activity or service (arrived
at through cost/service/revenue centers) including cost of capital
and the financial objectives of each port. The tariff levels/rates
would vary from port to port;
(c) design and recommend a double-entry activity and accrual based cost
accounting system and accounts classifications to record the cost
of the ships' wastes handling operations at each port on a uniform
basis. The system should provide for functional accounts based on
cost/service/revenue centers covering the full range of operations
such as reception treatment and disposal for each type of waste,
and character of expense types such as salaries and benefits,
materials and supplies, purchased services, depreciation, interest,



- 53 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 3 of 5
etc. The costing system should also develop and provide statisti-
cal information on operating plans and actuals, capacity utiliza-
tion, etc. The objectives of the cost breakdown should be the
availability of information for the control of costs through im-
provements in productivity, the provision of costs for each catego-
ry or type of operation for determining total costs of an operation
and for developing analytical details for determining productivity
and performance levels. The recommended system should be capable
of mechanization and full integration into the existing accounting
systems and procedures.
(d) it would be entirely appropriate for the consultants to consider
various alternatives of incentives built into the tariff schedule
and recommend one which would encourage ships to use the wastes
handling facilities at each of the ports and thus would best serve
the achievement of the project's objectives. Such alternatives may
include: (i) in the early years of operation, say for a trial
period of five years, the tariffs could be designed to cover just
the variable costs and a portion of the fixed costs, thus providing
a stimulant for the ships to get into the habit of using the new
facilities; (ii) designing a system for the determination of quan-
tities of wastes on the basis of what would be the total accumula-
tion of various types of wastes in a ship from the time the ship
left the previous port of call where facilities for ships' wastes
handling are available to the time of its arrival at the Chinese
port concerned, etc.
However, the enforcement of environmental safeguards (including the
deterrents/penalties against the dumping of ships' wastes) under
the national laws and/or international conventions to which China
subscribe would come under the regulatory responsibilities of
governmental and/or parastatal agencies. While such activities
reinforce the objectives underlying the tariff policies, they do
not play any direct role in the formulation or calculation of the
tariff structure and levels. In this respect, the consultants
should look into the adequacy of the deterrents and penalties as
inducement towards achieving the objectives of the project. They
should, for example, ascertain whether the deterrents and penalties
are strong enough to prevent dumping of the wastes at sea, or
whether the level of the deterrents and penalties are so low that
ships may find it convenient to dump and to pay the penalties.
(e) prepare (i) a tariff manual setting forth the policies and proce-
dures of tariff setting, a general tariff structure for all the
ports and individual tariff rates for each port, and (ii) a cost
accounting manual setting forth a coded chart of accounts and defi-
nitions, descriptions of cost classifications, methods and proce-
dures.



- 54-                       ATTACHMENT 8
Page 4 of 5
Stage 2
7.        The consultants shall help implement the above recommendations on
tariff schedule and cost accounting system upon approval by GOC and the Port
Authorities. The consultants shall also train the port staff in the concepts
and operational techniques relevant to each system. Such training shall
include on-the-job, classroom and other training. The consultants shall in
addition recommend other methods of training including specialized training
abroad and familiarization visits to ports where similar operations exist.
Stage 3
8.        The consultants shall visit the ports on a follow-up basis within
12 months after the implementation of the work program under Stage 2 to ensure
that the tariff schedule and cost accounting system are working satisfac-
torily; in particular that the staff are fully familiar with and capable of
operating all aspects of the tariff and costing systems and that they clearly
understand the relationships between the two systems.
IV. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTANTS' SERVICES AND REPORTS
9.        The assignment would cover a total of about nine staff months as
follows.  Commencing on or about March 1, 1992, the consultants would provide
inputs of: one month for the familiarization review, two months for designing
and recommending the new tariff schedule and cost accounting system, five
months for implementing the new systems and training ports staff; and, one
month for a follow-up visit after the start of operations of the new facili-
ties. The new system is expected to be fully operational by December 31,
1994.
10.       The consultants shall commence work within 30 calendar days of the
effective date of the services contract. The following reports should be
prepared and submitted within the time limit indicated below:
(a)  an Inception Report within three months (or as otherwise agreed) of
the starting date describing the consultants' initial findings,
outlining the methodology to be employed and listing preliminary
proposals, plans and programs and bar charts showing breakdown of
work by individuals responsible and by components and their time
frame (number of copies of the report and their distribution to be
defined);
(b) an Interim Report within six months of the starting date (or as
otherwise agreed) summarizing all work performed, the consultants'
findings and recommendations and bar charts showing progress of
work and work completion schedule (number of copies of the report
and their distribution to be defined);
(c) a Final Report within 12 months of the starting date or on comple-
tion of assignment (or as otherwise agreed) incorporating all revi-
sions to and updating of the interim report and summary of



- 55 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 5 of 5
additional work performed, the consultants' findings and recommen-
dations and bar charts showing work performed by individual respon-
sibilities and by components together with copies of the tariff and
cost accounting manuals referred to in Section III, stage I (d)
above (number of copies of the report and the manuals and their
distribution to be defined).
V. ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, TARIFFS, ACCOUNTING, PERSONNEL,STATISTICAL
(INCLUDING SHIP MOVEMENTS), AND TECHNICAL DATA AVAILABLE
11.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide consultants all
existing data, studies and reports.
VI. COOPERATION OF GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES AND COUNTERPARTS
12.       In connection with work by the consultants that require the cooper-
ation of other governmental agencies or authorities, the individual Port
Authorities are to provide liaison and to ensure that the consultants have
access to all information required for the completion of the work program.
13.       The individual Port Authorities are to assign, on a full-time
basis, appropriate counterparts to work with the consultants for the purposes
of liaison, training, prompt review of the findings and recommendations of the
consultants, and the implementation of approved recommendations.
VII. FACILITIES AND SUPPORTING STAFF OR THE CONSULTANTS
14.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide the following
facilities and staff to help the consultants in performing the services:
(a) office space and furniture;
(b) transportation within China, and
(c) utilities, telephone and telex services (to be determined).
15.       The individual Port Authorities are to assist the consultants in
locating satisfactory and appropriate hotel or other living accommodations in
the vicinity of each port.



- 56 --
Table 1
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chinese Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water
Basic Requirwmnta:
All water bodies must not contain th- following matter frow non-natural sources:
a. All precipitable mtters which can result in obnoxious precipitations.
b. Floating matter, such as debris, floating residues, oil or other
unsightly matters.
c. Produce obnoxious color, odor, taste or turbidity.
d. Harwful, poisonous or has adverse biological reaction to human, animal
and vegetation.
e. Can cause growth of unpleasant aquatic bio-matters.
No.     Constituent              Class I      Class II    Class III    Class IV         Close V
Ambient water tmperature change  from man-made causes ohould b
limited to:
1.      Water temperature            Average maximum temperature rise in summer period < I
dogrees C                   Average mximum temperature drop in winter period < 2
2.      pH                      6.6 - 8.5      65 - 8.5    6.  - 8.5    6. - 8.6         6 - 9
3.      Sulphate (S04) <           260           260           260           260          260
4.      Chlorides (CI) <           250           260           260           260          260
S.      Soluble iron <             0.3           0.3           0.5           0.5          1.0
6.      Total manganes  <          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.5           1.0
7.      Total copper <            0.01           1.0           1.0           1.0          1.0
(fish 0.01) (fish 0.01)
8.      total zinc <               0.06          1.0           1.0           2.0          2.0
(fish 0.1)   (fish 0.1)
9.      Nitrate (as N) <            10            10            20           20            26
10.     Nitrite (as N) <           0.06          0.1          0 15           1.0          1.0
11.     Free ammonia               0.02         0.02          0.02          0.02          0.02
12.     Kjeldahl                   0.5           0.6           1.0           2.0          2.0
13.     Total phosphorus           0.02      0.1 (lake,   0.1 (lake,         0.2          0.2
(as P) (                            roe. 0.026)  ros. 0.06)
14.     Pormanganata index <        2             4             6             8            10
15.     Dissolved oxygen >       90X sat          6             6             3            2
16.     COD <                       15           1S            15            20            25
17.     BOD6<                       3             3             4             6            10
i8.     Fluoride (as F) (          1.0           1.0           1.0           1.5          1.6
19.     Selenium (quad) <          0.01         0.01          0.01          0.02          0.02
20.     Total arsenic <            0.06         0.06          0.06           0.1          0.1
21.     Total mercury <          0.00005       0.00006       0.0001        0.0001        0.0001
22.     Total cadmium <           0.001         0.005         0.006         0.006         0.01
23.     Chromium (hex) <           0.01         0.05          0.05          0.05          0.1
24.     Total load <               0.01         0.05          0.05          0.05          0.1
25.     Total cyanide (           0.006         0.06           0.2           0.2          0.2
(fish 0.006) (fish 0.005)
26.     Volatile phenol <         0.002         0.002         0.005         0.01          0.01
27.     Petroleum (                0.05          0.05         0.05           0.5           1.0
28.     Anionic Surfactant <       0.2           0.2           0.2           0.3           0.3
29.     Total coliform (No/L) <                               10000
30.     Benzene (ug/L) <          0.0025       0.0025        0.0025
Class Description
I       Mainly used for water source, national natural protection areas.
II      Mainly suitable as source in first class protection area for co_unity drinking water
supply, precious fish protected area, spawning ground for fish and shrimps.
III     Mainly suitable as source in socond class protection area for community drinking water
supply, fishery protection area and public swim_ing area.
IV      Mainly suitable for typical Industrial water supply, and recreation where there Is no
human bodily contact with the water.
V       Mainly suitable for agricultural water supply, and typical water areas for tourlM.
Note:   Where a water regime is suitable for a number of potential uses, classification will be
according to its highest uses. Where there is class difference between seasons, *seaonal
classification can be used'



- 57 -
TABLE 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chinese Standards Compared to Foreign Standards
(A) Industrial wastewater discharge standards (mg/L)
Parameter                         China          Shanghai        Canada*
mercury                           0.05           0.02            0.1
cadmium                           0.1            0.1             1.0
chromium                          0.5 (Cr4)      0.5 (Cr4)       5.0 (total)
arsenic                           0.5            0.5             1.0
lead                              1.0           1.0             2.0
pH                                6-9            6-9             5.5-9.5
floatables                        500            500
copper                            1.0            1.0             2.0
zinc                              5.0            5.0             4.0
BOD5                              60             30              30
COD                               100            50              _
phenol                            0.5            1.0             1.0
sulphides                         1.0            1.0             1.0
cyanide                           0.5            1.0             2.0
total phosphorus                  0.5            1.0             -
oil                               10             10              15
fluoride                          10             10              -
nitrobenzene                      5.0            5.0
benzene                           3.0            3.0
* effluent from oily waters treatment centre
(B) Air emission standards (mg/m3)
China                     U.S.       Canada
(1982)                   (1982)      (1982)
Parameter         Grade I  Grade II Grade III  Grade IV
total settleable               0.30                        0.075       0.080(AGM)
particulate                                                 (AGM)*
sulphur dioxide               0.15                         0.080       0.055(AAM)
(AAM)*
nitrogen oxides                0.10                         0.l00(AAM) 0.200(24hr)
hydrocarbons                                                0.160
oxidants (as 03)                                           0.160(lhr) 0.165(lhr)
fluorides                                                              0.138(24hr)
Notes: Chinese standards are based on daily averages
(Quality Criterion of Atmospheric Environment, GB3095-82)
* AAM - annual arithmetic mean
AGM - annual geometric mean



- 58 -
Table 3
Page 1 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost /a
($ million)
Prolect Cost               of which
Local  Foreign    Total        IDA       GEF
National Component
Environmental monitoring & tracking   0.65    1.35          2.20      0.54      1.09
Oil spill contingency planning study        -    0.45       0.45         -      0.42
Chemically contaminated water treat-
ment study                                -    0.25       0.25         -      0.23
Subtotal                           0.65    2.05        2.70      0.54     1.74
Ports' Component
Disposal facilities:
Dalian                                 1.15    2.05       3.20      0.78      1.60
Tianjin                                7.00    2.00       9.00      2.05      3.92
Shanghai                              16.30    8.50      24.80      5.20    10.08
Ningbo                                 4.80    1.70       6.50      1.83      3.55
Guangzhou                              5.36    3.20       8.56      2.08      4.17
Xiamen                                 3.52    1.61       5.13      1.37      2.68
Technical assistance to Xiamen
Port Authority                            -    0.03       0.03         -      0.03
Subtotal                          38.13   19.09       57.22    13.31    26.03
Base cost                         38.78   21.14       59.92    13.85    27.77
Physical contingencies                   1.48    0.86       2.34      0.55      1.07
Price contingencies                      1.54    1.00       2.54      0.60      1.16
Total cost                        41.80   23.00       64.80    15.00    30.00
.La  In January 1992 prices.  The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- 59 -
Table 3
Page 2 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Dalian
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                            civil works    equip.    equip.
----------- $ million ----------
Build two 5,000 ton oily water
receiving/holding tanks and
chemically contaminated water
treatment facilities; new
sludge handling facility;
refurbish existing oily water
settling basins                       0.650      0.380        0.150        0.120
Replace oily water receiving/
holding tanks at Crude Oil
Terminal (1-4,000 ton)                0.300      0.200        0.100            _
Replacement of oily water
equipment                             0.650           -           -        0.650
New sludge handling facility
(Crude Oil Terminal)                  0.700          -            -        0.700
Purchase oil containment
boom                                  0.530           -       0.300        0.230
Connections and piping for
sanitary sewage                       0.040      0.020            -        0.020
Laboratory                              0.330           -            -       0.330
Base cost                          3.200      0.600        0.550        2.050
Contingencies                           0.300
Total cost                         3.500



- 60 -
Table 3
Page 3 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Tianiin
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                            civil works    equip.    equip.
----------- $ million ----------
Purchase new oily waters
treatment barge (500 tons
cap.)                                2.000      -               2.000    -
Refurbish existing m oil waters
treatment barge (30 t/hr)            0.480      -               1.480    -
Purchase oil containment boom          0.500      -               0.500    -
Expand East Terminal sewage
treatment plant                      3.900      2.000          0.690    1.210
Purchase new garbage barge              1.100     -               1.100    -
Purchase 2 new garbage trucks          0.350      -               -        0.350
Laboratory equipment                    0.670     0.230           -        0.440
Base cost                          9.000      2.230           4.770    2.000
Contingencies                          0.700
Total cost                        9.700



- 61 -
Table 3
Page 4 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Shanghai
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                             civil works    equip.    equip.
----------- $ million ----------
New land-based oily and
chemically contaminated
water treatment facility
(300,000 tons/yr.)                   16.900       9.400        3.000       4.500
Purchase oil containment
boom
0.450           -            -       0.450
Garbage treatment facilities            6.690       1.800        2.100        2.790
Laboratory equipment                    0.760           -            -        0.760
Base cost                         24.800      11.200        5.100       8.500
Contingencies                           2.000
Total cost                        26.800



- 62 -
Table 3
Page 5 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Ningbo
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                            civil works    equip.    equip.
----------- $ million ----------
Build new land-based treatment
facility at Beilun                   1.600       0.600         0.360      0.640
Refurbish existing oily waters
treatment barge (60 t/hr)            0.100           -         0.100
Purchase new oily waters
treatment barge (300 t/hr)           2.300           -         2.300          -
Purchase oil containment
boom                                 0.430           -          0.430
Beilun Iron Ore waste water
and sewage treatment facility        0.430       0.110          0.320         -
Connections and piping for sewage
at Zhenhai                           0.120       0.010          0.110         -
Purchase garbage barges                0.400           -          0.400         -
Purchase new garbage trucks and
build new incinerator                0.630       0.060              -     0.570
Laboratory equipment                   0.490           -              -     0.490
Base cost                         6.500       0.780         4.020      1.700
Contingencies                          0.520
Total cost                        7.020



- 63 -
Table 3
Page 6 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Guangzhou
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                             civil works    equip.    equip.
------ $ million ----------
Purchase oil containment
boom                                     1.330          -         1.000      0.330
Purchase new sewage collection
barge                                    0.750          -         0.750          -
Build secondary sewage, oil and
chemically contaminated water
treatment facilities                     5.590     2.540          0.820     2.230
Build new garbage incinerator              0.350      0.200         0.050      0.100
Laboratory equipment                       0.540          -             -       0540
Base cost                             8.560     2.740         2.620      3.200
Contingencies                              0.720
Total cost                            9.280



- 64 -
Table 3
Page 7 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Xiamen
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civil works    equip.    equip.
----------- $ million ----------
Purchase new oily waters treatment
barge                                2.000       0.200       1.800
Purchase oil containment
boom                                 0.260            -          -       0.260
Build secondary sewage treatment
plant                                1.250        0.420      0.380       0.450
Purchase new garbage barge             0.190            -      0.190            -
Build new garbage incinerator          0.500        0.200          -       0.300
Environmental monitoring station       0.930        0.330          -        0.600
Base cost                         5.130       1.150       2.370       1.610
Contingencies                          0.350
Total cost                        5.480



- 65 -
Table 4
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated ShbD Waste Quantities for 1990
Number
Ship       Of         Oily Waste             SeV-se             Garbage                 Total
Port          Type       Ships      Tons       Hv        Tons       H'       Tons       H          Tons          M'
Dalian       O.G.        4,400    22,200    23,368    69,930    63,573    2,797    18,648         94,927     105,589
Coastal    6,460    32,300    34,000    72,675    66,068    2,907    19,380    107,882          119,448
Total     10,900    54,500    57,368   142,605   129,641    5,704    38,02S    202,809          225,037
Tianjin      O.G.        2,380    11,900    12,526    37,485    34,077    1,499        9,996      50,884      56,600
Coastal    3,210    15,600    16,421    35,100   319,909    1,404         9,360     52,104       57,690
Total      5,500    27,500    28,947    72,585    65,986    2,903    19,356    102,988          114,290
Shanghai     O.G.        5,700    28,500    30,000    89,775    81,614    3,591    23,940    121,866         135,554
Coastal   19,700    98,500   103,684   221,625   201,477    8,865    59,100    328,990          364,261
Total     25,400   127,000   133,684   311,400   283,091   12,456    83,040    450,856          499,815
Ningbo       O.G.          465      2,325     2,447      7,324     6,658       293      1,953      9,942       11,058
Coastal      935      4,675     4,921    10,519       9,563      421      2,805     15,615       17,289
Total       1,40      7,000     7,368    17,843    16,220        714      4,758     25,556       28,347
Xiamen       O.G.        1,345      6,725     7,079    21,184    19,258        847     5,649      28,756       31,986
Coastal    7,055    35,275    37,132    79,369    72,153    3,175    21,165    117,819          130,450
Total      8,400    42,000    44,211   100,553    91,411    4,022    26,814    146,575          162,436
Guangzhou    O.G.        2,200    11,000    11,579    34,650    31,500    1,386        9,240      47,036       52,319
Coastal    8,500    42,500    44,737    95,625    86,932    3,825    25,500    141,950          157,169
Total     10.700    53,500    56.316   130,275   118.432    5.211    34.740    188.986          209,488
Total                 62.300   311.500   327.895   775.260   704.782   31,010   206.736  1.117.770   1,239.413
Note 1:  Numbers of ships were estimated by dividing the total throughput by the average ship size.
Note 2:  oily waste weightt 950 kg/M3.
Note 3:  Sewage: 50 liters/day/person.  Crew:  35 ocean going, 25 coastal.  Average collection period:  9
days. Unit weight: 1.1 tons/H3.
Note 4:  Garbage:  2 kg/person/day.  Ship time in port as for Note 2 above.  Unit weight of garbage:  150
kg/H3.
Nomenclature: O.G. a ocean going; Coastal - domestic shipping.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Dalian Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
URdated                          Forecast
For year ending December 31,               1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
Operating Revenues                        408.4     512.0    547.4    588.2    629.4   673.5    720.6
Operating Expenses                        178.1     234.5    260.7    287.0    315.7   347.3    382.0
Net Operating Income                      230.3     277.5    286.7    301.2    313.7   326.2    338.6
Interest Expense                            2.1      21.4      20.0      20.0     20.0    20.0       20.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)           20.8       35.5     20.0      20.0     20.0    20.0       20.0
Net Income Before taxes                   207.4     220.6    246.7    261.2    273.7   286.2    298.6
Taxes and payments to state                79.7       83.1     80.0      80.0     80.0    80.0       80.0
Net Income after Taxes                    127.7      137.5    166.7    181.2    193.7   206.2    218.6
Add. Depreciation                          30.0       35.8     38.0      38.0     38.0    38.0       38.0
Internal generation of funds              157.7     173.3    204.7    219.2    155.7   168.2    256.6
State contribution                          -        85.8       -         -         -       -         -
Borrowings                                 58.7     146.0    100.0    100.0         -       -         -
Sources of Funds                          216.4     405.1    304.7    319.2    155.7   168.2    256.6
Application of Funds                      200.0     400.0    300.0    310.0    140.0   145.0    225.0
Net Funds Flow                             16.4        5.1      4.7       9.2      15.7    23.2      31.6
Add:  Opening Cash Position                69.1       85.5     90.6      95.3    114.5   140.2    178.4
Cash Position Year End                     85.5      90.6      95.3    114.5    140.2   178.4    235.0               X  H
0 H
O-n
0



Dalian Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan 11992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
Total      1992    1993    1994    19951/
Project Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                    20.0         1.3     6.7      9.4      2.6
Less:  External financing                              14.0        0.9     4.7      6.6      1.B
Port'. contribution                                     6.0       0.4      2.0      2.8      0.8
Funds Flow.
Operating and maintenance expense                                                            2.0
Depreciation                                                                                 2.0
4.0
Operating revenuesa2/                                                                        4.0
Project-facilities internal cash generation             2.0         -       -        -       2.0
Less:  Contribution towards project financing           6.0        0.4     2.0      2.8      0.8
Interest expense3/                              0.2         _        -       -       0.2
6.2       0.4      2.0      2.8      1.0
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                      (4.2)      (0.4)   (2.0)   (2.8)    1.0
Net funds flow from regular port operations            79.7        9.2    15.7    23.2    31.6
Consolidated *urplus/(deficit)                         75.5        8.8    13.7    20.4    32.6
ed H3
CD H
(D
0
I/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels..
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



Tianjin Port - Project Facilities - Financinq Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total      1992        1993       1994    19951/
Proiect Facilities
Financino Plan
Capital Investment                                  50.9        3.4        16.8      23.9      6.8
Less:  External financing                           35.7        2.4        11.7      16.8      4.8
Port's contribution                                 15.2        1.0         5.1       7.1      2.0
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                              5.1
Depreciation                                                                                   5.1
10.2
operating revenuesa/                                                                          10.2                     %
oo
Project-related internal cash generation             5.1         -           -         -       5.1
Less:  Contribution towards project financing    15.2           1.0         5.1       7.1      2.0
Interest expense3/                            0.6        -           -          -      0.6
(15.8)     (1.0)       (5.1)      (7.1)    2.6
Project-related Surplus/(deficit)                  (10.7)      (1.0)       (5.1)      (7.1)    2.5
Net funds flow from regular port operations        109.1       17.5        19.5      27.1    45.0
Consolidated surplus/deficit                        98.4       16.5        14.4      20.0    47.5
Q  0
CD (D~
o a
0
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Tianiin Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
URdated                                 Forecast
As at December 31,                        1989        1990       1991        1992        1993       1994        1995
Operating Revenues                       404.7       378.3      396.1       414.0       432.6      452.1       472.5
Operating Expenses                       191.8       200.8      213.1       226.8       238.1      250.0       262.5
Net Operating Income                     212.9       177.5      183.0       187.2       194.5      202.1       210.0
Interest Expense                           2.8         7.7       40.0        40.0        40.0       40.0        40.0
Nonoperating items--Net Dr/Cr)             8.9         8.6        5.0         5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0
Net income before taxes                  201.2       161.2      138.0       142.0       149.5      157.1       175.0
Taxes and payments to state               14.2        13.3       20.0        20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0
Net income after taxes                   187.0       147.9      118.0       122.0       129.5      137.1       155.0
Add. depreciation                         30.3        35.5       35.5        35.5        40.0       40.0        40.0
Internatal generation of funds           217.3       183.4      153.5       157.5       169.5      177.1       195.0
State contribution                        78.6       268.6        -           -           -          -           -
Borrowings                               112.3       223.4      160.0       160.0         -          -
Sources of funds                         408.2      675.4       313.5       317.5       169.5      177.1       195.0
Applications of funds                    416.7       666.7      300.0       300.0       150.0      150.0       150.0
Net funds flow                            (8.5)        8.7       13.5        17.5        19.5       27.1        45.0
Add:  Opening Cash Position              103.0        94.5      103.2       116.7       133.2      152.7       179.8
Cash Position Year End                    94.5       103.2      116.7       133.2       152.7      179.8       224.8  D |
0'



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Shanahai Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
For year ending December 31,              1989        1990        1991        1992       1993         1994        1995
Operating Revenues                       903.9    1,003.5    1,070.7    1,142.1    1,218.3         1,300.0    1,386.7
Operating Expenses                       517.7       594.4       638.7      685.5       734.4        785.8       840.8
Net Operating Income                     386.2       409.1       432.0       456.6      483.9        514.2       545.9
Interest Expense                           -           -           8.0         9.0        10.0         13.0       16.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)          59.2        65.2        70.0        70.0        70.0         70.0       70.0
0
Net Income Before Taxes                  327.0       343.9       354.0       377.6      403.9         431.2      459.9
Taxes and payments to state              104.0       110.0       112.0       115.0       120.0        129.0      136.0
Net Income after Taxes                   223.0       233.9       242.0       262.6      283.9        302.2       323.9
Add. Depreciation                         31.8        50.7        58.0        60.0        60.0         60.0       60.0
Internal generation of funds             254.8       284.6       300.0       322.6      343.9        362.2       383.9
State contribution                         -           -           -           -           -            -          -
Borrowings                                96.6       324.0         -           -           -            -          -
Sources of Funds                         351.4       608.0       300.0      322.6       343.9        362.2       383.9
Applications of Funds                    358.0       600.0       250.0       260.0      270.0        280.0       300.0
Net Funds Flow                            (6.6)       18.6        50.0        62.6        73.9         82.2       83.9
Add:  Opening Cash Position              150.4       143.8       152.4       202.4      265.0         338.9      421.1  
Cash Position Year End                   143.8       152.4       202.4       265.0      338.9        421.1       505.0   ID
n b



Shanghai Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan 11992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Proiect Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                     131.6    8.9    43.6    61.5    17.6
Less:  External financing                               92.4    6.3    30.6    43.2    12.3
Port's contribution                                     39.2    2.6    13.0    18.3        5.3
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                         13.2
Depreciation                                                                              13.2
26.4
Operating revenues2/                                                                      26.4
Project-facilities internal cash generation             13.2      -        -       -      13.2
Less:  Contribution towards project financing           39.2    2.6    13.0    18.3        5.3
Interest expense3/                                2.9    2.6      0.4      1.0     1.5
42.1    5.2    13.4    19.3       6.8
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                      (28.9)  (5.2)  (13.4)  (19.3)    6.4
Net funds flow from regular port operation             302.6   62.6    73.9    82.2    83.9
Consolidated Surplus/(deficit)                         273.7   57.4    60.5    62.9    90.3
PM IPI
0
I/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.                                                           t
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
inlcuded. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Ningbo Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
For year-ending December 31              1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Operating Revenues                      111.5       149.1      169.4       191.7      216.3        243.3       274.9
Operating Expenses                       74.3       102.2      114.8       127.5       140.3       154.5       170.0
Net Operating Income                     37.2        46.9       54.6        64.2        76.0        88.8       104.9
Interest Expense                          -           -          5.0         6.0         7.0         7.0         6.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)          3.8         7.9         8.0        8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0
Net Income Before Taxes                  33.4        39.0        41.6       50.2        61.0        73.8        90.9
Taxes and payments to state              10.5        11.9        13.6       16.0        19.0        22.0        26.0
Net Income after Taxes                   22.9        27.1       28.0        34.2        42.0        51.8        64.9
Add. Depreciation                         17.0       24.4        25.0       25.0        30.0        30.0        30.0
Internal generation of funds             39.9        51.5       53.0        59.2        72.0        81.8        94.9
State contribution                       46.5        87.8       37.0        15.0         -           -           -
Borrowings                               74.8        86.7       26.0        33.0         -           -           -
Sources of Funds                        161.2       225.5      116.0       107.2        72.0        81.8        94.9
Applications of Funds                   137.1       286.4       110.0      100.0        50.0        50.0        55.0
Net Funds Flow                           24.1       (60.9)       6.0         7.2       22.0         31.8        39.9
Add:  Opening Cash Position             111.7       135.8        74.9       80.9        87.9       109.9       140.7    Q
Cash Position Year End                  135.8        74.9       80.9        87.9       109.9       140.7       180.6
_ _~~~~



Ningbo Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Proiect Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                      44.4    2.9    14.6    20.9        6.0
Less:  External financing                                31.2    2.1    10.2    14.7       4.2
Port's contribution                                      13.2    0.8      4.4     6.2      1.8
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                          4.4
Depreciation                                                                               4.4
8.8
Operating revenues2/                                                                       8.8
Project facilities-internal cash generation               4.4     -        -       -       4.4
Less:  Contribution towards project financing            13.2    0.8      4.4     6.2      1.8
Interest expense3/                                0.5      -       -        -      0.5
13.7    0.8      4.4     6.2      2.3
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                        (9.3)  (0.8)   (4.4)   (6.2)    2.1
Net funds flow from regular port operation              100.9    7.2    22.0    31.8    39.9
Consolidated Surplus/(deficit)                          91.6    6.4    17.6    25.6    42.0                    1  e
JQ00
(S v
0
1/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Guangzhou Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Prolect
Y million
Updated                         Forecast
For year ending December 31,             1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
Operating Revenues                      365.3    340.9    380.6   425.7    478.6    536.0   600.3
Operating Expenses                      193.1    193.1    218.1   248.2    286.5    329.5   378.9
Net Operating Income                    172.2    147.8    162.5   177.5    192.1    206.5   221.4
Interest Expense                          -         -       10.7    16.0      20.0      20.0    20.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)         21.4      27.0      12.3    20.0      35.0     35.0    35.0
Net Income Before Taxes                 150.8    120.8    139.5   141.5    137.1    151.5   166.4
Taxes and payments to state              13.2      12.0     24.0    27.0       60.0     60.0    60.0
Net Income after Taxes                  137.6    108.8    115.1   114.5        77.1     91.5   106.4
Add. Depreciation                        27.3      28.2      30.0    30.0      30.0     30.0    30.0
Internatal generation of funds          164.9    137.0    145.1   144.5    107.1    121.5   136.4
State contribution                        -         -         -       -         -        -        -
Borrowings                               41.1      95.9    150.0   105.0        -        -        -
Sources of Funds                        206.0    232.9    295.1   249.5    107.1    121.5   136.4
Applications of funds                   190.0    235.7    289.5   230.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Net Funds Flow                           16.0      (2.8)     5.6    16.5        7.1     21.5    36.4
Add:  Opening Cash Position              56.0      72.0     69.2    69.2       85.7     92.8   114.3
Cash Position Year End                   72.0      69.2     74.8    85.7      92.8    114.3   140.7
,d H
I-
0



Guangzhou Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan 11992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Proiect Facilities
Financina Plan
Capital Investment                                       53.6    3.6    17.9    24.9       7.2
Less:  External financing                                37.6    2.5    IL.6    17.4       5,1
Port's contribution                                      16.0    1.1      5.3     7.5      2.1
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                          5.4
Depreciation                                                                               5.4
10.8
operating revenues2/                                                                      10.8
Project facilities-internal cash generation               5.4     -        -       -       5.4                      .1
Less:  Contribution towards project financing            16.0    1.1      5.3     7.5      2.1
Interest expense3/                                                          -      0.6
16.6    1.1     5.3      7.5     2.7
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                       (11.2)  (1.1)   (5.3)   (7.5)    2.7
Net funds flow from regular port operations              81.5    16.5      71_    3. 64
Consolidated surplUs/(deficit)                           70.3   15.4      1.8    14.0    39.1
m
0X b
tD
0
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Xiamen Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
For year ending December 31,              1989       1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Operating Revenues                        50.1       55.7        66.6        79.6        95.2       113.8       136.6
Operating Expenses                        30.6        32.8       39.1        46.1        54.5        64.3        75.9
Net Operating Income                      19.5       22.9        27.5        33.5        40.7        49.5        60.7
Interest Expense                           -          -           5.6         6.5         7.0         7.0         7.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)           1.1        0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5
Net Income Before taxes                   18.4        22.3       26.4        26.5        33.2        42.0        53.2
Taxes and payments to state                4.6        5.4         6.2         7.9         9.6         11.6       14.3
Net Income after Taxes                    13.8        16.9       20.2        18.6        23.6        30.4        38.9
Add. Depreciation                          2.4         2.7        3.0         4.0         5.0          6.0        6.0
Internal generation of funds              16.2        19.6       23.2        22.6        28.6        36.4        44.9
State contribution                        11.9        16.8       18.0         8.0       30.0         30.0        30.0
Borrowings                                 7.7       22.3        40.0        40.0        10.0         -           -
Sources of Funds                          35.8       58.7        81.2        70.6       68.6         66.4        74.9
Applications of Funds                     20.0        33.2       60.0        50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0
Net Funds Flow                            15.8       25.5        21.2        20.6        18.6         16.4       24.9
Add:  Opening Cash Position               22.2        38.0       63.5        84.7       115.3        133.9      150.3
Cash Position Year End                    38.0       63.5        84.7       115.3       133.9       150.3       175.2
m1
o o



Xiamen Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Project Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                       34.0    2.3    11.4    15.8       4.5
Less:  External financing                                23.9    1.6      8.0    11.1      3.2
Port's contribution                                      10.1    0.7      3.4     4.7      1.3
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                          3.4
Depreciation                                                                               3.4
6.8
Operating revenues2/                                                                       6.8
Project facilities - internal cash generation             4.7     -        -        -      4.7
Less:  Contribution towards project financing            10.1    0.7      3.4      4.7     1.3
Interest expense3/                                0.4      -       -        -       0.4
10.5    0.7      3.4     4.7      1.7
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                        (5.8)  (0.7)   (3.4)   (4.7)    3.0
Net funds flow front regular port operation              80.5   20.6    18.6    16.4    24.9
Consolidated Surplusah(deficit)                          74.7   19.9    15.2    11.7    27.9
1/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.                                                                      M D
0 
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be                    0 o
included.  Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
z                                             z
1. Dalian Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                    6.9        7.5         7.0         7.0        7.0             X
Operating expenses - annual increases                   11.1       10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                        1.7         1.8        1.8         1.8        1.8
Annual average interest rate2                            5.0        5.0         5.0         5.0        5.0
Proiect Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                              10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                              10.0    m |$
0
o    i-s
rI.



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
Z          z Z         Z
2. Tianiin Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                    4.7         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.5
Operating expenses - annual increases                    6.1         6.4         5.0         5.0        5.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.7         1.7
Annual average interest rate2                             3.6        3.7         3.7         3.7         3.7
Proiect Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                10.0
JQ a
(D
_ .)
-



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
3. Shanghai Port
ExistinR Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                     6.7         6.7         6.7         6.7         6.7
Operating expenses - annual increases                     7.5         7.3         7.1         7.0         7.0
Annual average depreciation rate1                         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0             g
Annual average interest rate2                             3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Proiect Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                 10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                 10.0
(  H
0o 



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
I          X            x           X           X
4. Ningbo Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                     13.6        13.2        12.8        12.5        13.0
Operating expenses - annual expenses                      12.3        11.1        10.0        10.0        10.0                I
Annual average depreciation rate1                          3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0               0
Annual average interest rate2                              3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Proiect Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                  10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                  10.0
UQ 0l
(DI
0 -



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
5. Guangzhou Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                   11.6        11.8        12.4        12.0        12.0
Operating expenses - annual increases                   12.9        13.8        15.4        15.0        15.0
OD
Annual average depreciation rate1                         1.7        1.8         1.9         2.0         2.0
Annual average interest rate2                            3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Prolect Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                10.0
oD
I-ti



Growth Rates Assumed In Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994       1995
Z          Z           X           Z
6. Xiamen Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                   19.5        19.5       19.5        19.5        20.0
Operating expenses - annual increases                   19.2        17.9       18.0        18.0        18.0                1
Annual average depreciation ratel                        1.6         1.6        1.6         1.6         1.6
Annual average interest rate2                            6.4         5.6        5.2         5.1         5.0
Project Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                               10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                               10.0
c3
M  1-'
,
I-4



Depreciation:  Because of the varying mix of the fixed assets and related depreciation from port to port,
and within the same port from year to year, the rates do not follow any fixed pattern from
year to year.
2 Interest:       Similarly, because of the varying mix of the long-term debt and related interest from port to
port, and within the same port from year to year, the rates do not follow any fixed pattern
from year to year.
lDl-
OD
-4



RUSSIAN  FEDERATION.,
KAZAKHSTAN _
MONGOLIA
KYRGYZTN            JUu, 
UZBEK ST N                 JA9e                                                                                                                       yo
*    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llk
The nevtee beenpeeere shwKOREA   g <1-  ib'                                                                                                 uotwft 
on thes m,opndonol .on rhe                           )- sL|Ssh't ,rvYlo  
potoIbeeniee WoddRetnkGop  '- -> -l ns o C                                                                                       .\          '<     
pd^Yfenr of Th W,d Eon Go.                                 V                                           j      u7 
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~  \**                                                              0                S)~L<HM'JGHAJ   . 
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJC                                                                                                                                                   P   ;0_      4 ,¢  AOCIC
.J     PRFOJECT PORTS                            ts 9                         ,      <>A E                                                                        9
09    PROViNCE CAPITALS                                       unn                   ,UN I        tl(DN                                                                          .
*i     NATIONAt CApITAL                             7                     7        Nnmg
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                             t\:     _ VE  AA                                   \t    :N  t
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES g t~gS/t= o 
=M  1    00  .00 .0   +0   oX. hAWlAND 8-k                                                                                              n-
Thd.;.                         . ....                       5)te  tyl1-L






I



@ Printed on recycled paper



