k-    /C,    e -~       )   v /  1--  I I  /    I         '
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                           Report No. 9852-CHA
Report No    9852-CHA Type:  (SAR)
MOBAREK, I/ X82947 / F-8025/ ASTIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
MAY 15, 1992
Transport Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1, 1991)
Currency Name = Renmlnbi
currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1 = $0.0186
$1.00   Y 5.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter =   35.31 cubic feet
1 ton              1.1023 tons (short)
tkm           =   ton-kilometer
ppm           =   parts per million
TEU           =   twenty-foot equivalent unit
ABBREVIATIONS
BOMTA    -   Bureau of Maritime Transport Administration
CIF      -   Cost, insurance, and freight
COSCO    -   China Ocean Shipping Company
DPA      -   Dalian Port Authority
EPB      -   Environmental Protection Bureau
FYP      -   Five Year Plan
GEF      -   Global Environmental Facilities
GOC      -   Government of China
GPA      -   Guangzhou Port Authority
HSA      -   Harbor Superintendency Administration
ICB      -   International competitive biiding
LCB      -   Local competitive bidding
LME      -   Large marine ecosystem
MARPOL   -   International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution
MOC      -   Ministry of Communications
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOR      -   Ministry of Railways
NEPA     -   National Environment Protection Agency
NPA      -   Ningbo Port Authority
PRC      -   People's Republic of China
SOA      -   State Oceanic Administration
SPA      -   Shanghai Port Authority
SPC      -   State Planning Commission
TOR      -   Terms of Reference
TPA      -   Tianjin Port Authority
XPA      -   Xiamen Port Authority
This report was prepared by Ismail Mobarek, M.S. Parthasarathi, Hank Yen and
P.O. Cheryan (consultant) and is based on the information collected by Hank
Yen (EA2TP), Scott McKnight (consultant) and Pang Sing Eng (consultant) during
project appraisal in April 1991. Peer reviewers are: Messrs. K. Newcombe
(CODGE), A. Bruestle (ASTEN) and R. Anderson (EA2EH). The Country Director is
Mr. Shahid Javed Burki and the Division Chief is Mr. Daud Ahmad.



'FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Credit and j'roject Summary
Borrower:               People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:          The Port Authorities of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai,
Ningbo, Guangzhou and Xiamen
Amount:                 SDR 11.0 million ($15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 35 years maturity and 10 years' grace
Onlending Terms:        Between the Ministry of Finance and each Port
Authority: 15 years, including five years' grace, at
1.5 percent per annum. The Port Authorities will bear
the foreign exchange risk. The Global Environment
Facility (GEF) Fund contribution of SDR 22.0 million
($30.0 million equivalent) would be passed on to the
respective ports as a grant.
Project Objective:      The objectives of the project are to reduce pollution
of international and Chinese territorial waters caused
by ship's wastes through (a) improved monitoring and
analysis of the nature and magnitude of the problem;
(b) improved policy, regulatory, and incentive frame-
works; and (c) the provision of infrastructure to
receive and safely dispose of ship wastes.
Project Description:   1.  National Component:
(a) establish baseline data on international ship
traffic, related waste types and quantities
by designing and implementation of a pilot
interport ship waste monitoring system
(SEATRACK) to facilitate enforcement;
(b) prepare a comprehensive accident (oil pollu-
tion) contingency plan (including selected
equipment) for each port;
(c) initiate a Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) moni-
toring program for the Yellow Sea;
(d) undertake a study of the treatment of chemi-
cally contaminated water;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(e) provide facilities and promote coordination
among the various authorities to upgrade en-
vironmental monitoring capabilities at the
ports, coastal waters as well as internation-
al waters; and
(f) provide consultants' services and training in
connection with or related to activities un-
der the project.
2. Ports, Component:
(a) define, design and provide appropriate land-
based collection and disposal facilities at
the ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai,
Ningbo, Xiamen and Guangzhou; and
(b) establish or upgrade environmental monitoring
and enforcement capabilities of each of the
port authorities.
Risks:                       The main risks relate to potential delays in pro-
ject implementation, and to cost recovery. As
this is a substantially new activity for most of
the ports, technical assistance through close pro-
ject supervision will be provided to ensure satis-
factory implementation. As to cost recovery in
ports, PRC's record in the matter of introducing
adequate cost recovery mechanisms has so far been
good. Technical assistance will be provided to
the GOC to develop an economically and environmen-
tally sound tariff and cost recovery system. GOC
has indicated that there would be no difficulty in
the ports introducing a tariff schedule based on
cost recovery specific to the new services.



- iii -
Estimated Project Cost:                               Local    Foreign    Total
-------   million -------
Monitoring and tracking                             0.65      1.35       2.00
Waste Disposal Facilities and equipment            38.13     19.06      57.19
Technical assistance                                -         0.73       0.73
Base Cost                                    38.78      21.14     59.92
Physical contingencies                              1.48      0.86       2.34
Price contingencies                                 1.54      1.00       2.54
Total Cost /a                                 41.80      23.00      64.80
Financing Plan:
GOC and the Port Authorities                       19.80      -         19.80
GEF                                                13.00     17.00      30.00
IDA                                                 6.00      9.00      15.00
Total                                          38.80      26.00      64.80
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA                                       1993      1994       1995     1996
Annual                                     2.0        7.0       5.5       0.5
cumulative                                 2.0       9.0       14.5      15.0
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Map: IBRD 23131R2
/a In January 1992 prices. The project is exempt from import taxes and
duties.



- iv -
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . .                       1
A.  Environmental Conditions in China  . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Environmental Conditions of Coastal Waters . . . . . . .    1
C.  Sector Organization  ... .  .  .  .  .  . ...  . . . . .  .   .  2
D.  Sectoral Issues and Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.  The Bank's Role and Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .    4
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
A.  Overview ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. . .. .  .  .  .  .  .  6
B. Transport Issues and Government Strategy . . . . . . . .     7
C.  Bank Group Participation in the Sector . . . . . . . . .    a
--T. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
A.   Port  Traffic  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
B. Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
C. Operations and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
D.  Tariffs  . . . ......        .     . .       ..... .       12
E.  Environmental Conditions in Chinese Ports  . . . . . . .   13
F. Regulatory Framework for Environment Control . . . . . .    14
G. Role of the Bank Group         ... .15
IV. THE PROJECT  . . .      o o .. o .   .                          17
A. Objectives           . . . ..                 .17
B. Description  . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . .. .               17
C.  Project Cost ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .   .  23
D.  Financing  .    .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  24
E.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION    ....27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .    .  .  .  .  .       29



SCHEDULES
A.   Documents in the Project File
B.   Project Implementation Schedule
C.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ATTACHMENTS
1.   International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution
2.   Summary of Present Situation and Recommended Action
3.   Oil Spill Contingency Planning and Response Study
4.   Large Marine Echo System Study
5.   Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study
6.   Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority
7.   Assumptions Used in the Financial Evaluation
8.   Draft Terms of Reference for Establishing a Costing and Tariff
System for Waste Reception and Disposal Services
TABLES
1.   Chinese Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water
2.   Chinese Standards Compared to Foreign Standards
3.   Estimated Project Cost
4.   Estimated Ship Waste Quantities for 1990
5.   Dalian Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
6.   Tianjin Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
7.   Shanghai Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
S.   Ningbo Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
9.  Huangpu Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
10. Xiamen Port--Income and Funds Flow Statements
11. Growth Rates Assumed in the Financial Forecasts
MP
IBRD No. 23131R2



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
I. THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR
A. Environmental Conditions in China
1.1       Growing urban populations and industrialization are causing wide-
spread air, water, and soil pollution in China, as elsewhere, and environmen-
tal problems have become issues of the highest priority. Due to past
industrial location policies, many large industries are located close to or
within urban residential areas which are also rapidly expanding. Gaseous
emissions, untreated or improperly treated liquid effluents, and unwanted
refuse from industries and domestic premises, industrial hazardous and toxic
wastes, and high noise levels from congested traffic, factories, and
commercial complexes, are significantly polluting the environment and affect-
ing the health of the residents of heavily populated urban areas.
1.2       Water pollution from urban and industrial waste water discharges
poses possibly the most severe problem. Many important water resources, which
are already scarce in most regions, are already seriously threatened. The
burning of bituminous coal is causing serious atmospheric pollution from air-
borne particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions in inner cities and industrial
areas, and directly affecting human health. Few countries are as dependent on
coal as China, with annual consumption now approaching 1 billion tons.
Domestic garbage and industrial solid waste often pile up uncovered in random
heaps around large cities, as a result of poor past, and in many cases even
present, solid waste disposal practice. In the countryside, excessive use of
water and inappropriate use of fertilizers and pesticides, as well as
irrigation in some areas, have begun to create environmental problems.
B. Environmental Conditions of Coastal Waters
1.3       Many of China's largest urban centers are clustered along the coast
and thus their industrial and sanitary wastes are discharged into the coastal
marine waters. Treatment of such effluents is highly variable, ranging from
virtually no treatment in Guangzhou in the south to secondary treatment of
part of the wastes in Shanghai. Treatment at source of industrial effluents
is generally not undertaken leading to potential pollution by trace metal and
organic contaminants of the combined sewage waters. With some notable excep-
tions (e.g., Huangpu River in Shanghai), good circulation of local receiving
waters maintains coastal and estuarine waters in reasonably good condition
(PRC National Water Standard Class 2 or 3, Table 1). However, as the urban
centers expand, combined with development of new economic/industrial zones,
maintenance of coastal water quality will require more widespread use of ade-
quate sewage treatment and disposal systems.



- 2 -
1.4       There are three major river systems discharging into the China coas-
tal sea lane: Huang He (Yellow River) into the Yellow Sea, Chang Jiang
(Yangtze River) into the East China Sea and the Xi Jiang (Pearl River into the
South China Sea); there are numerous smaller rivers. These river systems are
well known to transport extremely large quantities of suspended solids, the
result of erosion of inland areas, and potentially, contaminants associated
with the solids (e.g., pesticides, fertilizers, industrial discharges).
Extensive monitoring of water and sediment quality has been undertaken of, at
least, the three malor systems since 1984. Water quality is typically of
National Water Quality Class 2 or 3; however, accumulations of contaminants in
the sediments with a resultant impact on the sediment biological community
have been noted, for example loadings of contaminants near Shanghai on the
lower Chang Jiang. Comparisons of the adjacent coastal to international
waters have not been undertaken.
1.5       The State Oceanographic Administration (SOA) has been conducting
marine monitoring and assessment studies of the coastal and international
waters since 1974, for such parameters as petroleum hydrocarbons, trace metals
and other general water quality parameters, as well as sediment quality and
status of the marine biological community. Through three major centers
(Dalian, Shanghai, and Guangzhou), SOA monitors water quality twice a year at
over 100 stations in deeper waters, some 400 stations in collaboration with
the Harbor Superintendency Administration (HSA) for oil pollution and induts-
trial wastes, and 240 stations in major estuaries (typically in the outer
reaches; other agencies are responsible for the remaining sections of the
rivers'. Sediments at many of these sites are monitored once a year, and the
status of the marine biological community once every two years. SOA has just
completed a comprehensive "Mussel-watch" type program to assess contaminant
distribution and biodiversity in conjunction with HSA. A more detailed
description of SOA activities 's available in the project file.
1.6       Specific pollution attributable tc ships wastes and marine traffic
through the coastal sea lane is difficult to quantify. Estimates can be
derived from comments by HSA that many ports are able to handle only
20-30 percent of estimated quantities of garbage/solid wastes, none of the
ports have facilities or barges to permit pumping out of sanitary sewage for
subsequent treatment, and, with the exception of Dalian and Shanghai, facili-
ties for the reception and treatment of oily waters are limited in capacity
and treatment capability. Assuming optimistically that 2U percent of the
waste is being properly handled and 'reated, then 800,000 to 900,000 tons are
being discharged annually into coastal aad international waters.
C. Sector Organization
1.7       The government of each administrative region is responsible for
enforcing environment protection laws, primarily through its Environment Pro-
tect:on Bureau (EPB). At the national level, the National Environmental Pro-
tectior. Agency (NEPA) is responsible for (a) determining national environ-
mental policies for air, water, soil, wastes, noise, etc.; (b) designing
national environmental regulations and standards; (c) environmental monitor-
ing; (d) providing guidance to the provinces on environmental matters; and (e)
research. Many port authorities have set up EPBs reporting through a deputy
director. These bureaus handle monitoring and operation of pollution control



equipment, and are responsible for preparing appropriate documentation, such
as environment impact statements, state-of-the-environment reporting, and
environment aspects of engineering feasibility and operational studies. Each
municipality also has a Municipal Environment Protection Bureau (MEPB) respon-
sible for monitoring all aspects of pollution and enforcement of national
environmental protection laws and regulations.
1.8       Under the Marine Environmental Protection Law, the Harbor
Superintendency Administration (HSA) is responsible for monitoring pollution
or accidental spillage from ships, which includes e3camining waste treatment
facilities on bulk carriers, Although operating mostly inside harbors, HSA is
also responsible for responding to spills and pollution from ships in coastal
waters; however, it lacks the facilities and equipment to do so. Along with
NEPA, SOA is also responsible for environmental quality at the national level.
SOA functions include marine environmental research and monitoring, but mostly
of waters outside harbors. Data from their studies are helpful for revising
or developing regulations and regulatory limits.
D. Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.9       The emphasis on economic development in the 1970s encouraged growth
without special regard for pollution control. Hence, environmental conditions
have seriously deteriorated. Beginning with the 7th FYP (1986-90), GOC and
the local authorities have taken greater initiatives to improve the environ-
ment and to enforce important regulations. These include a strict requirement
for environmental impact assessments on new projects that may pose environmen-
tal problems. A key initiative is the required simultaneous assessment and
interaction of economic, engineering and environmental aspects of all proj-
ects, from the earliest feasibility study stage to the final operations stage.
During the feasibility study stage, the environment impact assessment (EIA)
for port and water projects employs state-of-the-art EA techniques and
addresses environmental protection and mitigation issues and overall environ-
ment management.
1.10      For existing polluters, problems arise when the cost of cleanup is
high. Since local authorities are often the owners of the polluting enter-
prises, they may be reluctant to jeopardize the financial viability of the
enterprises through expensive cleanup measures. Thus financial constraints
slow the progress of pollution abatement. Current industrial cleanup measures
include mostly end-of-pipe treatment, a term that denotes treatment rather
than reduction or waste avoidance. The Central Government, with the Bank's
assistance, is considering more preventive measures, i.e., more efficient and
economical methods for reducing pollution through recycling, process modifica-
tion, and the use of less polluting inputs. Often when technological change
is the preferred sol;ition, lack of financial resources-especially foreign
exchange-is generally a barrier.
1.11      To deter pollution, the Central Government introduced a system of
charging for pollution and imposing penalties for exceeding set pollution
limits. About 80 percent of the funds derived from these charges are used for
pollution abatement measures or facilities. A range of unit charges (based on
concentration) covers each type of pollution. Within this range, local
governments who enforce the regulations can set the charges. Often, however,



- 4 -
the charges are too low even at the top oi the range to deter pollution, since
polluters often find it cheaper to pay the penalties rather than take more
costly abatement measures. Also, even though the amount collected from
penalties is not insignificant, it is too small to significantly assist pol-
luters in cleanup. If further meabures are not found to finance pollution
abatement efforts, environmental improvement will be slow.
1.12      The main focus of the environmental efforts of the Eighth Five-Year
Plan (1991-95) is on urban and regional environmental strategies, since they
are recognized as major sources of marine pollution. Plans include the
construction of upgraded sanitary sewage facilities (e.g., the Bank-financed
facilities for Shanghai), active participation in various international
conventions, such as the International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), and development of environmental strategies for
key coastal areas (e.g., a recently approved grant, financed under the Japan
Grant Facility administered by the Bank, to finance a large-scale,
environmental study of Haxigzhou Wan, China's most productive, but increasingly
polluted, bay. Hangzhou Wan lies between the port of Shanghai (to the north)
and the port of Ningbo (to the south).
E. The Bank's Role and Sector Strategy
1.13      The Bank's role in the environment sector in China is to assist the
Government in (a) developing appropriate strategies for improving and
maintaining the quality of the environment (to optimize total benefits,
including those from improvements in the efficiency of industrial production
and the use of natural resources); (b) planning and prioritizing needs for
environmental improvement, and identifying and preparing plans for the most
cost-effective projects; (c) providing project funding and attracting other
sources of external financing; (d) strengthening institutions responsible for
enforcing environmental protection regulations, as well as those that operate
community systems for environmental pollution abatement; and (e) promoting
sound financial and cost recovery policies to sustain viable operation of the
urban services required for reducing environmental pollution. Because of the
magnitude of the problem, the Bank's work on the environment in China is
receiving much attention and support from the international community. In
many instances, the Bank is well positioned to direct this attention and sup-
port to high-priority areas.
1.14      The linkage between the economy and environment at the urban level
offers the Bank an excellent comparative advantage. The Bank is assisting
with the economic analysis of underlying causes of environmental degradation
and the use of economic techniques to set priorities for improving and
protecting the environment. It also provides technical help in designing
policies and making investments, particularly in waste avoidance, waste
reduction, and pollution control technologies and projects. The design of
five comprehensive urban and provincial environmental projects currently under
preparation will address strategies for managing and treating water resources,
minimizing industrial wastes and controlling pollution of water, air, and
land, including managing hazardous and toxic wastes. These five projects will
also include components to develop long-term, least-cost environmental
strategies, policies, and investment programs, as well as provide
institutional development assistance to the respective provincial and



- 5 -
municipal environmental protection bureaus, planning commissions, and public
utilities.
1.15      Bank technical assistance related to the environment includes acti-
vities at the national, provincial, and municipal levels. Assistance (through
the Japan Grant Facility administered by the Bank) to the National Environmen-
tal Protection Agency (NEPA) was recently approved. This will 91lp NEPA
strengthen its research, planning, and implementation of environmental poli-
cies in five areas: (a) environmental impact assessment; (b) waste minimiza-
tion and pollution control in rural industries; (c) environmental planning and
economic incentives; (d) hazardous and toxic waste management; and (e) envi-
ronmertal information systems. The Bank is also providing technical assis-
tance under various projects to environment departments in several sectors or
line ministries.



-6-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Overview
2.1       The transport system in China is characterized by a high volume of
freight traffic in relation to economic output, seriously suppressed demand,
intensive utilization of fixed assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and
distortions in tariffs and costs (arising particularly from inadequate
provision for depreciation). Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in
tkm per US dollar of GNP, is even higher than in the (former) Soviet Union and
is much higher than in India, Brazil, or the United States. The major reasons
behind this are a relatively large heavy industry sector, a large volume of
other low-value-added products, reliance on coal as the major source of
energy, and underpricing of energy and raw materials. In addition, energy
efficiency in China is relatively low, and there is still little preprocessing
of raw materials before shipping. On the other hand, the size of China's
transport network, compared with its areas and population, ranks China's net-
work among the lowest in the world.
2.2       Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. The
rapid growth of China's economy in the last decade has stimulated an
increasing demand for the shipment of commodities of all sorts, and for
passenger travel as well. Coal makes tup about one third of the total traffic.
Bottlenecks in coal transport (betweer. -ne northern coal producing areas and
loading ports for distribution to industries and to ports on the south and
east coasts) are a major constraint to continued rapid economic growth. Other
bulk and neo-bulk cargoes also feature prominently in water-borne traffic.
These include iron ore, grain, fertilizer, construction materials, timber and
cement. General cargo typically makes up 10-20 percent of the traffic at
major ports. Cargo unitization has grown rapidly in China. Twenty-one ports
now handle container traffic with 13 specialized container berths handling a
total throughput capacity of over 1 million TEU (twenty-foot equivalent
units).
2.3       Efforts to reduce waste within the transport system (for example, by
eliminating cross-hauling of the same commodity, increasing the processing of
raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity of road and water-
way utilization) are certainly desirable, and are being pursued. More funda-
mentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation short-
ages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's capacity, by increasing
the utilization of existing facilities wherever possible, and by building new
facilities where necessary.
Traffic
2.4       The economic reforms introduced sirce 1979 have provided the impetus
for. a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traffic for all modes, which
has sev-rely taxed the transport system. For example, during the '80s, rail-
way freight traffic grew at about 6 percent per year, and port freight traffic
grew at about 9 percent per year. Intercity highway freight traffic grew at
about 16 percent per year-consistently higher than the growth of the gross
domestic product. Passenger traffic grew at about 12 percent per year in this



period. Overall, passenger travel per capita ir China remains low, in part
because of severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation, although growing
rapidly (almost 20 percent annually for both freight and passengers), is still
limited, and most long-distance journeys are made by rail. From the docu-
mented increases in growth rates between 1979 and 1989, traffic will continue
to grow at a high rate in China in the foreseeable future.
Modal Split
2.5       Although the railways' share of traffic has declined over the last
10-20 years as the share of road traffic has grown, unlike in other countries,
rail transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China. In
1990, 58 percent of froight and 47 percent of passenger traffic moved by rail,
and the rest by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil
aviation. The continued pre-eminence of the railway is in part due to the
structure of the Chinese economy, wherein heavy industry is prominent and coal
is the dominant energy source. Coal and the large quantities of other bulk
inputs associated with heavy industry are well suited for railway transport
and constitute the majority of railway traffic in China. In the case of
passenger transport, the importance of the railway is due to the short length
and backward condition of the road network, poor intercity bus services, the
virtual absence of private automobiles and the limited use of aviation. Civil
aviation's share was only 3.1 percent for passenger traffic and less than
0.5 percent for freight traffic.
Investments
2.6       Public investment for transport infrastructure has not kept pace
with the growth of the economy. Compared with 2-3 percent of GNP for
countries such as South Korea and Brazil, transport investments as a percent-
age of GNP have declined to 1.3 percent of GNP from a high of 2.4 percent
during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1971-75), despite an absolute increase in
monetary terms.  The low levels of transport investment appear to contribute
to transport being a bottleneck to China's economic development. In the
coming decades, a much larger investment effort will be needed if transport
shortages are to be overcome.
2.7       The level of investments for the ports subsector has been reason-
able. However, the main issue for ports is not a lack of investments and the
resulting problems in cargo handling, rather it is the poor hinterland link-
ages and limited operational efficiency of ports. In the ports, lack of
proper handling facilities is hampering trade in bulk commodities, such as
fertilizers, cement, and grain.
B. Transport Issues and Government Strategy
2.8       The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development, and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. Key
issues in the transport sector include the following:
(a) chronic shortages in the supply of transport infrastructure and
services due to underinvestment;



(b) excess demands generated by price distortions of transport services
and major commodities (particularly coal);
(c) uneven development of modes (i.e., excessive reliance on rail, rela-
tive neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern, integrated
intermodal services);
(d) outdated technology within each mode (obsolete vehicles, infrastruc-
ture, and operating systems);
(e) shortages of skilled labor in key areas, particularly in multimodal
planning and policy analysis, economic analysis, and logistics
management with emphasis on customers; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to procurement procedures, quality control of works, and project and
company management.
2.9       China's Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) recognizes all these
sectoral needs. By the end of the plan period, freight traffic is projected
to be 45 percent higher than i-n 1990, and passenger traffic 60 percent higher,
with a greater share of the increase falling on road transport. To meet these
needs, substantial investments are envisioned, especially in new rail lines,
double-tracking and electrification of existing lines, new highways, and more
berths at deep-water ports. The plan also aims at efficiency gains in trans-
portation from operational improvements, such as the development of integrated
intermodal transportation networks, in particular for coal transport and for
import-export trade, and technological improvements such as container-handling
facilities and intermodal transport terminals. To facilitate these develop-
ments, the plan envisions significant institutional changes in the sector,
including furthering the policy of removing government control of operating
enterprises and delegating greater authority to the enterprises, this has
recently begun in the ports subsector. Continuing adjustment of prices for
transportation services is expected to assist the funding of investments in
the sector from internally generated resources.
C. Bank Group Participation in the Sector
2.10      The Bank subscribes to the Government's objectives for developing
the transport sector, and is supporting its initiatives with both financial
and techniral assistance. The Bank financed, or is financing, 19 transport
projects to date: six railway projects; seven highway projects and six port
projects. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2540-CHA, 2678/Credit
1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key routes and the
manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling equip-
ment; a fourth railway project provides for strategic studies for modernizing
technology, as well as for expanding line capacity and manufacturing facil-
ities. The seven ongoing/completed highway projects involve the construction
or improvement of both national and rural roads. Six port projects (Loans
2207-CHA, 3006-CHA, 2689-CHA, 3007-CHA, 2907/Cr.1875-CHA, and 2877/Cr.1845-
CHA) involve increasing the capabilities of Chinese ports. Besides these
subsector-specific operations, the Bank has been assisting the Government in
conducting strategic studies and implementing projects of a wider nature. For



example, a review of the utilization of water transport was completed in 1987,
a comprehensive transportation study for Guangdong province has been
completed. A Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study has also been completed
recently. Other transport studies under way cover coal transportation, rail-
way costing and investments, port and shipping development and port costing.
2.11      The growth and modernization of the transport system in China in
recent years has been spurred by increased and broad-based Government-Bank
dialogue on specific projects and on long-term strategies for the sector and
specific subsectors. Much more, however, needs to be done to bring about the
changes required to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and to
rationalize and increase the effectiveness of the transport system. Over the
next several years, the Bank in its dialogue with the Government should pay
particular attention to encouraging measures oriented to:
(a)  increasing the level of total transport investments as a proportion
of GNP to make up for backlogs caused by past underinvestment and to
meet new traffic demands;
(b)  realigning further the prices of freight transport services and the
major commodities to bring them closer to their true costs, so as to
(i) provide a better guide for more rational decisions on indus-
trial location to reduce the high transport intensity of the
economy,
(ii)  promote a rational economic distribution of traffic among the
various transport modes, especially as the Chinese economy
diversifies, causing changes in the structure of transport
demand, and
(iii)  enhance cost recovery from the users of transport services
which should increase the sector's ability to finance new
investments;
(c)  modernizing technology and implementing managerial reforms to con-
tinually increase the productivity of existing assets; and
(d)  improving investment decisions, both across and within modes,
through analysis and planning tools that more optimally determine
the economic priorities of transport investments under budget con-
straints.
Bank strategy should support the Government in stepping up investments in the
transport sector and implementing price adjustments and reforms. Through its
lending operations and sector work, the Bank is supporting policy directions
that introduce more competition within and among transport modes, promote
better allocation of resources through pricing, and improve management of the
transport sector and transport enterprises.



- 10 -
III. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
A. Port Traffic
3.1       Six of China's 15 major deep-water ports (Shanghai, Dalian, Xiamen,
Ningbo, Guangzhou, and Tianjin) handle over 80 percent of the total traffic.
Shanghai, with over 100 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the world.
In 1987, it handled 128 million tons of cargo and more than 12 million passen-
gers. The port of Ningbo, which is close to Shanghai, is one of China's few
natural deep-water ports; it is the only deep-water port on China's mid--
eastern seaboard. Many other minor ports connect China's extensive coastline
and 110,000 km of navigable waterways.
3.2       Since opening its economy to foreign trade in the late 1970s,
traffic through China's 15 major ports has more than doubled to 440 million
tons in 1989. Compared with that of many developing countries, however, port
traffic in China is low in relation to the size of its economy. Foreign trade
is expected to continue growing in step with the economy as a whole: the
Eighth Five-Year Plan envisions total port traffic reaching 700 million tons
by 1995, which will be more than 45 percent higher than the volume projected
for 1990.
B. Organization and Management
3.3       One of the most important challenges facing the management of
China's ports is how to adapt the ports to the changing circumstances brought
about by the economic reforms initiated in 1979. The port subsector was not
affected by the economic reforms until 1984, when the Ministry of Communica-
tions (MOC) began to decentralize the ports. The decentralization featured
(a) self-financing of port operations, (b) investments funded by internal cash
generation, and (c) increasing competition among ports for cargo. Before the
decentralization, MOC set tariffs, allocated cargo, provided grant financing
for major investments, covered any deficits, and received most of the
surpluses generated by the ports. Now only a portion of the total cargo is
allocated, tariffs for unallocated cargo may be set competitively within a
narrow range, and profits (subject to taxes) are retained by the ports. The
Government progressively plans to reduce controlled allocation of traffic,
reform tariffs and taxation policies, and phase out grant financing of invest-
ments.
3.4       The ports of Tianjin, Shanghai, Dalian, and Guangzhou (Huangpu) were
the first to be decentralized. A "Pilot System Reform," introduced in Tianjin
in 1984, transferred primary leadership of the port from MOC to the local
goGernment. The port was exempted from paying any taxes on profits until
1990. Since the reforms, the port has had much more autonomy in management,
investment planning, and control over its finances. In 1986, the ports of
Shanghai and Dalian were decentralized with modified provisions for taxes and
grant financing of investments: they were to pay a fixed lump sum tax, obtain
MOC approval for large investments, and receive some grant financing through
1990. Huangpu port was similarly decentralized, though specific provisions
were again slightly different. All the ports remaining under MOC control were
given greater financial autonomy from the end of 1988.



- 11 -
3.5       While it is still early to evaluate the different models adopted to
improve port management, it appears that future policy will likely treat ports
more fairly and uniformly. In order to develop efficient policies on tax-
ation, tariffs, and the financing of investments, better iniormation on port
operations, costs, and finances must be made available. The Bank is helping
MOC conduct studies that include research on alternative organizational forms
employed in other countries, as well as on development of port costing sys-
tems.
C. Operations and Maintenance
3.6       Although most major ports in China operate round the clock with a
three-shift system, operations are increasingly hampered by congestion inside
the port areas, mainly because of the lack of adequate specialized facilities.
Technological and institutional .actors contribute to inefficiency and cong-
estion. In 1985, average delays for foreign trade vessels were as high as 11
days. Government restrictions on imports improved the situation somewhat in
1986, but major ports experienced increased congestion again with average
waiting times of four to five days.
3.7       Port congestion in many southern and eastern ports could be alle-
viated by rationalizing cargo movements through the use of modern sea-going
barges for direct transfers of cargo between ports. MOC has begun to
rationalize traffic flows and, as part of the Ningbo Port Project, cargo and
shipping movements in the mid-eastern region are being studied. The ports of
Shanghai and Dalian have retained consultants to review operations, identify
weaknesses, and recommend improvements. At the ports of Ningbo, Xiamen, and
Shanghai, the Bank has mounted similar reviews of operations and maintenance,
and has agreed with these ports on specific performance targets within speci-
fic time frames.
3.8       Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth
productivity levels for general cargo as low as 50 percent of levels achiev-
able with unitized cargo handling. Clearly, more specialized handling
facilities are needed to increase the level of cargo unitization for break-
bulk cargoes. Some progress has been made in containerization for foreign
trade, although little has been achieved in domestic trade. Using pallets to
move break-bulk cargo is a feasible and cost-effective means of increasing
unitization of domestic break-bulk cargo; savings would result both from
improved productivity and reductions in cargo damage and loss.
3.9       The proper interfacing of different transportation modes is an
aspect of port development which is now receiving the urgent attention of MOC.
However, only road connections are within MOC's jurisdiction, while railways
are the responsibility of the Ministry of Railways (MOR). MOR itself is
facing a serious shortage of capacity, and must coordinate its own priority
projects with those of HOC.



- 12 -
D.  Tariffs
3.10      China's ports have two levels of tariffs-one for foreign trade and
another for domestic trade. Foreign ships pay the published harbor dues and
charges, which seem to be set on the basis of what the market will bear, while
Chinese vessels pay lower rates, which seem to reflect the relative financial
strengths of the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO) and the ports and their
different investment requirements. Chinese ports have no shipping conference
rates, and the ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting, which
are usually paid by the cargo owner. Recently, however, ports have been
signing dispatch agreements with ship operators that guarantee a certain turn-
around times the port pays demurrage charges if the time is exceeded or the
ship pays premiums if cargo is handled faster. Usually the premiums far
exceed the demurrage charges.
3.11      The structure and level o. port tariffs are determined jointly by
MOC, MOF, and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure was estab-
lished in 1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade vessels) on the
basis of a somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to the different port ser-
vices. Tax agreements between the ports and the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
expired in 1990; future tax and tariff policies are presently under review.
The structure reflects all the distortions inherent in the prices of the dif-
ferent factor inputs. As a first step toward rationalizing tariffs, HOC is
currently carrying out a comprehensive Costing and Management Information
System (PCMIS) study (funded by the Japanese Government), with the assistance
of the Bank, which will be responsible for developing an accurate and uniform
costing system. After the system has been developed under HOC's auspices, it
will be tested at selected ports before adoption at all major ports. Port
authorities must become more aware of the cost of providing specific services
as well as whether depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover liabili-
ties are adequate. Further, since grant financing and the large investments
planned for China's ports will be eliminated (to accommodate increased trade
flows and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), the future
financial liabilities of ports are likely to increase rapidly. Hence, the
Government and port managers must pay special attention to costing port opera-
tions, managing their finances, and assuring the long-term viability of
investments.
3.12      Tariff reform is necessary both to assure the future financial
health of the ports and to ensure that port tariffs provide incentives for
efficient utilization of port assets. In many instances the present tariff
structure is inefficient on both counts. For instance, the relative prices
for handling break-bulk cargo, pelletized cars, and container cargo do not
reflect costs; they actually discourage shippers from using more efficient
unitized cargo-handling technology. Also, relatively low port storage charges
encourage shippers to overutilize port storage facilities, thereby causing
congestion in the ports. Therefore, tariff reform must focus on the level of
tariffs as well as on the structure.
E. Environmental Conditions in Chinese Ports
3.13      China's rapid economic growth over the past decade has been
reflected in substantial increases in foreign and domestic trade and



- 13 -
consequent growth in international and domestic shipping traffic through its
ports. This increased ship traffic has resulted in discharges at see of
associated wastes, such as oily ballast and bilge waters, sanitary sewage, and
garbage or solid wastes. The volume of 1990 ship traffic and the estimated
wastes generated by such traffic are presented in Attachment 1. A summary of
1990 data, as well as forecasts for 1995, are given below:
Port            Ship Traffic (no.)        Wastes generated (thousand tons)
1990         1995              1990           1995
Dalian          10,900       13,000                225           300
Tianjin          5,500        8,000                114           150
Shanghai        25,400       30,000                500           600
Ningbo           1,400        3,000                 28            60
Guangzhou        8,400       10,500                210           250
Xiamen          10,700       16,000                163           240
Total      62,300        80,500             1,240          1,600
Source: Bank staff, 1991.
3.14      China has an extensive coastline bordering on three regional seas:
the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, and the South China Sea. Many areas
within these waters are important sources of harvested marine resources both
for China and other nations. The World Oceans are divided into 52 large
marine ecosystems (LME) that provide more than 90 percent of the ocean
resources. The Yellow Sea is one of these ecosystems that requires
preservation. Protection of the environmental quality of these waters is
critical for maintaining a major food source, and is reflected in one of the
goals of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-96). PRC has recognized the need to
improve the protection and conservation of the environment, including that of
both coastal and adjacent international marine waters. Policies include con-
struction of upgraded sanitary sewage facilities (e.g., City of Shanghai),
improved industrial waste management, and active participation in various
international agreements, such as the International Convention for the Preven-
tion of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL).
3.15      One key mechanism for environmental protection of marine waters is
the 1973/78 MARPOL Convention (Attachment 1), to which PRC became a signatory
in 1984. Under this convention, ships are permitted to discharge wastes at
sea only under controlled conditions (e.g., oil tanker ballast waters may not
contain more than 15 mg/L of hydrocarbons), and ports are to provide facili-
ties for the reception, treatment, and disposal of ships' wastes. Four types
of wastes have been identified:
(a) oily ballast and bilge waters (MARPOL Annex 1);
(b) chemically contaminated ballast and bilge waters (MARPOL Annex 2);



- 14 -
(c)  sanitary sewage (MARPOL  nnex 4); and
(d)  garbage or solid wastes (AARPOL Annex 5).1/
Of these, MARPOL Annex 4 has not yet come into force because of limited world-
wide port reception facilities for sewage.
3.16      Attachment 2 gives a summary of existing waste reception facilities
in the six major foreign trade ports in China covered under this project
(Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou, and Xiamen). Of the six ports,
only Dalian and Shanghai have the facilities and infrastructure potential to
handle ships' wastes. However, even these facilities are outdated and barely
able to meet present demands. Waste volumes projected for the future will
clearly exceed existing capacity. At Xing Zhao near Guangzhou, the Guangzhou
Bureau of Maritime Transport Administration (BOMTA) is establishing a facility
to handle oily ballast from its ships, eliminating the need for such a
separate GPA facility. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
GPA that GPA will enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
with BOMTA to handle the oily ballast and bilge waters for all port users at
the proposed BOMTA facility at Xin Zhao.
3.17      The provision of proper waste management facilities, coupled with an
appropriate regulatory and monitoring regime and fee schedule, should
significantly reduce the quantities of pollutant wastes discharged at sea.
Construction of the facilities would also provide a model for other ports in
China.
F. Regulatory Framework for Environment Control
3.18      As a signatory to MARPOL, China has enacted the Marine Environment
Protection Law (March 1, 1983). Chapter 5 of the law specifically addresses
prevention of pollution from vessels. PRC subsequently developed a set of
detailed regulations on pollution from vessels. In general, these regulations
are stricter than present international guidelines (see Table 2). For
example, the oil content permitted in discharge water is less than
10 mg/l (ppm), compared with the international guideline of 15 mg/l (ppm).
However, these regulations are not at present being strictly enforced and
monitored primarily due to lack of waste reception facilities.
3.19      Many port authorities have set up an Environmental Protection Bureau
reporting through a deputy director. These bureaus undertake monitoring and
operation of pollution control equipment, and are responsible for preparing
appropriate documentation, such as environmental impact statements, state of
the environn.ent reporting, and environmental aspects of engineering feasi-
bility and operational studies. Each municipality also has a Municipal
Environment Protection Bureau responsible for monitoring all aspects of pollu-
tion and enforcement of national environmental protection laws and regula-
tions. Presently none of the ports has a specific fee to permit cost recovery
for the capital or operating costs of the proposed facilities.
1/ MARPOL Annex 3 deals with harmful substances carried in packaged form in
freight containers and portable tanks.



- 15 -
G. Role of the Bank Group
3.20      The Bank has supported the Government'e objective of expanding
capacity and improving productivity in the ports since 1982. The first lend-
ing operation in the subsector (Three Ports Projects, Loan 2207-CHA) financed
additional container handling capacity in Shanghai, Huangpu and Tianjin and a
coal terminal at Huangpu. The second (Tianjin Port Project, Loan 2689-CHA) is
financing the construction of eleven additional berths at Tianjin for timber,
construction materials and general cargo. The third (Huangpu Port Project
Loan 2877-CHA/Credit 1845-CHA) is financing the construction of five
additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu district of Guangzhou port for
coal, iron ore, bulk fertilizer and general cargo. The fourth (Dalian Port
Project Loan 2907-CHA/Credit 1875-CHA) is financing construction of a new
terminal at Dayao Bay for container and break-bulk cargo. The fifth (Ningbo
and Shanghai ports project, Loan 3006-CHA) is financing expansions at both
Ningbo and Shanghai ports. The sixth (Xiamen Port Project, Loan 3007-CHA) is
financing construction of four additional berths at Xiamen. Physical imple-
mentation of projects has been good, with projects generally on schedule and
below estimated costs.
3.21      Earlier Bank projects supported management systems improvements with
components addressing computer development, technical studies, training, and
containerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also been
instrumental in developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation of
investment projects and in updating various aspects of port operations. A
study is under way to help GOC determine the most economic pattern of develop-
ment for the various ports in mid-eastern China, particularly Shanghai and
Ningbo ports.
3.22      Several studies in the port and shipping subsectors have been
initiated under previous Bank projects. They include a containerization study
which was completed by the Comprehensive Transport Research Institute in 1985.
Recent investments in container facilities have benefitted from the insights
provided by this effort. Studies included under ongoing port projects include
an Intermodal Cargo Distribution Study as part of the Huangpu Port Project
(for the south), a similar effort to be undertaken in the Dalian Port Project
(for North China), Port Costing and Management Information Study, etc. Fiom
all these projects it became evident that mitigation measures to improve
and/or to protect the marine environment is sorely needed.
3.23      Even though China signed the MARPOL convention in 1984,  specific
pollution abatement measures have not been included in Bank projects as they
depend for their effectiveness on a national policy across all ports, at least
the major ones in foreign trade. A policy is now taking shape on this matter,
and provides the Bank Group a unique opportunity through the project, support-
ed by GEF, to assist and encourage GOC to implement a comprehensive program to
monitor ship movements and waste discharges along the coastal sea lane, as
well as to provide facilities and strengthen the regulatory framework (incen-
tives and penalties) for ships to discharge their wastes in an environmentally
safe manner.
3.24      Of the Bank-financed port projects, only one has been completed so
far--the Three Ports Project. The primary project aim was to create



- 16 -
additional port capacity in Tianjin, Shanghai and Huangpu. Other aims of the
project were that during project implementation (i) the government would
evolve a long-term nationa. port strategy and (ii) the Bank would establish a
dialogue with the borrower on the basis of three studies included in the
project.  The principal objective to create additional port capacity and
prevent port congestion was accomplished fully and on time.  The economic rate
of return of 34 percent compared with 29 percent at appraisal; operation and
maintenance of terminals were efficient. But the Government did not evolve at
that time a long-term strategy, and preparation by the borrower of the three
studies and the Project Completion Report was not satisfactory. The Bank
Group, however, is now assisting GOC in evolving a port development strategy
for the southern half of China, and a number of other important studies are
underway.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objective
4.1       The objective of the project is to reduce pollution of international
and Chinese territorial waters caused by ships' wastes through: (a) improved
monitoring and analysis of the nature and magnitude of the problem; (b)
improved policy, regulatory, and incentive frameworks; and (c) the provision
of infrastructure to receive and safely dispose of ship wastes.
B. Description
4.2       The project consists of a national component and a ports' component,
as follows:
National Component
(a) establishing baseline data on international ship traffic, related
waste types and quantities by designing a pilot interport ship waste
transferring system to facilitate enforcement;
(b) preparing a comprehensive oil spill contingency plan for each port
(including identification of selected equipment);
(c) preparing terms of reference for undertaking a study of a Large
Marine Ecosystem (LME) monitoring program for the Yellow Sea;
(d) undertaking a study to develop a system for the treatment of chemi-
cally contaminated water;
(e) promoting coordination among the various authorities to upgrade
environmental monitoring capabilities at the ports, coastal waters
as well as international waters;
(f) preparing and implementing a tariff schedule based on cost recovery;
and
(g) providing consultants' services and training in connection with or
related to activities under the project.
Ports' Component
(a) provision of appropriate waste reception and disposal facilities at
the ports of Dalian, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen and
Guangzhou; and
(b) establishing or upgrading environmental monitoring and enforcement
capabilities of each of the Port Authorities.



!                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- 18 -
National Component
4.3       Interport Ship Waste Tracking System.  The provision of waste recep-
tion and treatment facilities in each port will permit ships the effective
option of safe discharge of wastes in port. This can be enforced to a certain
extent by HSA, but to realistically evaluate compliance with the Marine Envi-
ronment Law and to provide an evaluation mechanism for the project, it is
proposed to develop and operate a port-to-port waste tracking system. At the
port of departure, information as to projected volumes of wastes will be col-
lected and entered into a data base through specific software. This infor-
mation will be forwarded to the next port of call. At each port, the volumes
and characteristics of the wastes discharged will be compared to the informa-
tion forwarded from the port of departure. Thus HSA will be able to evaluate
whether a ship illegally discharged wastes at sea, in contravention of
existing regulation-. Software programs for this purpose are in use at a
number of ports in Europe.  The project will include:  (a) development of a
specific software program and of the information delivery and manifest system,
as a first phase; (b) purchase and installation of "PC"-type computers in each
of the six project ports, linked through computer modem with the other project
ports and with HSA in Beijing, and training of port staff in operating the
program, as a second phase.  For the project to be successful, it will also
require the cooperation of the shipping companies and ship personnel; the
project will include consultation and training sessions with shipping compa-
nies and ship personnel. A third phase of the tracking system is its eventual
coverage of all important ports on the coast of China.
4.4       Oil Spill Contingency Planning Study.  All the ports reviewed handle
considerable quantities of petroleum hydrocarbons, as both crude oil and
refined products, with increases projected in both the volume and size of the
carriers being handled. In some cases, for example, Xiamen and Ningbo, berth
space is inadequate for handling very large carriers; they have to be off-
loaded while at anchorage. This activity has led the port authorities to
become very concerned over the potential for product spillage or accidental
leakage and their inability to clean up spills. The project provides oil
booms for the ports to handle such situations. Only DPA and SPA have devel-
oped some sort of consistent oil spill contingency plans, but they are not
complete.   All six port authorities need considerable assistance to prepare
modern oil spill contingency and response plans.
4.5       Significant expenditures for spill response equipment and chemicals
are inappropriate at this time and should be deferred until completion of a
program of planning and training. The project will provide assistance to
undertake a three-phase study to (a) develop oil spill contingency plans for
the six ports using a generic model that can then be used to develop specific
plans for each port; (b) undertake training of staff in the design and
implementation of oil spill contingency plans; and (c) identify response equi-
pment appropriate to the needs of the six ports. The experts to be hired
under the project will work closely with MOC to develop a national scenario
for oil spill response. This scenario would ensure nationwide consistency in
planning, response capability, response training, and availability of
personnel and equipment. Each port will maintain and operate a "standard" set
of equipment that could be combined with resources from other ports in the
event of a major spill. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from



- 19 -
all six ports that they will adopt an oil spill contingency plan by July 31,
1994, developed according to terms of reference agreed with the Associatlon
(Draft Scope of Work, see Attachment 3).
4.6       Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) Activity.  The Yellow Sea, one of the
world's LMEs, is also an important international waterway for shipping. It is
important in the long term to protect the quality of the marine ecosystem of
the Yellow Sea and, if possible, to work to improve it. While various factors
influence the biomass yields of the LMEs, and all of these are not fully
known, sufficient knowledge and expertise are available to assist in the main-
tenance of their quality. To put a system in place for this purpose, however,
requires long-term commitment both to establish a monitoring and remedial
system and to operate it subsequently. This commitment will have to come from
all the countries sharing in the Yellow Sea LME, namely, China, Japan and
Korea. However, this is an activity falling outside the scope of port activi-
ties and not directly related to it, and invariably in the jurisdiction of an
agency different from the one dealing with ports. (In China, MOC has juris-
diction over the ports, but SOA is an independent GOC agency.) However, LME
activity would be a logical follow-on to the ship waste disposal project, and
the Bank Group has proposed to GOC that this be undertaken as a separate exer-
cise. The project will include assistance in developing the terms of refer-
ence and detailed work program (Attachment 4) for such activity, which will be
undertaken as a separate exercise. Various sources of funding for this re-
gional program are being explored, i.e., UNDP, NOAA, technical assistance
credit, etc. Assurances were obtained from GOC during negotiations that it
will prepare, in consultation with the Association, the TOR and the complete
program for a study of the Yellow Sea marine ecosystem by December 31, 1992.
4.7       Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study.  The discharge of
chemically contaminated waters is controlled by Annex 2 of MARPOL. With the
exception of the Ningbo Port Authority, none of the ports has facilities to
receive and treat ballast or bilge waters from bulk chemical carriers, nor to
treat contaminated waters resulting from the washing of containers, due to its
small quantities. However, bulk chemical cargo is becoming a major cargo for
the six ports reviewed with the exception of Xiamen, and all the Port
Authorities need to treat chemically contaminated waters.
4.8       The project will include a study to assess and develop a treatment
system for chemically contaminated water (see Draft Scope of Work in Attach-
ment 5). The study will be divided into three phases: (a) assessment of the
nature and quantities of chemical cargoes now or projected to be handled
through the ports; (b) joint development with staff from MOC and NEPA to des-
ignate effluent criteria for the chemical substances contaminating the bal-
last, bilge and wash waters; and (c) identificaticn and design of a treatment
system that will be "generic" and modular in structure so that it can be tai-
lored to handle best the different types and quantities of chemicals handled.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOC that it will carry out
the above-mentioned study according to TOR agreed with the Association, by
December 31, 1993, and implement its recommendations in consultation with the
Association.



- 20 -
Portsa Component
4.9       Oil-Contaminated Waters (MARPOL Annex 1).  For each port, the neces-
sary facilities were identified: they must be able to receive, treat, and
process waters from oil-contaminated ballast, bilge/engine rooms, and tank
wash from both crude and refined product carriers (see Attachment 2). In some
cases, the port requirements were small enough to be adequately handled
through the use of one or more self-propelled processing barges; in other
cases, the requirements were larger and would be met through the use of a
land-based facility. In either case, the oil-contaminated waters would be
processed through a multistage processor consisting of gravity-based settling
tanks, air floatation tanks, and adsorption filters to remove hydrocarbons and
permit the operating agency to meet China's current receiving water criterion
of 10 mg/L (ppm). ALl treatment facilities would include automatic monitoring
systems to permit continuous treatment and discharge of waters.
4.10      The project will also provide sampling and testing equipment to
permit the monitoring stations of the Port Environment Protection Bureaus and
the Harbor Superintendency to monitor the treatment facilities to ensure their
proper operation. The Port Environment Protection Bureaus will coordinate
with local facilities of the SOA in such matters as sampling protocols, test-
ing methodologies, and quality assurance of data programs.
4.11      Sanitary Sewage (MARPOL Annex 4).  The provision of sanitary sewage
facilities in the ports to receive and treat sewage from the ships will serve
as a model for both the adjacent municipality and also for other municipali-
ties and ports in China. In most cases, the port facilities would be located
in municipal units that do not provide at present central collection and
treatment facilities. In the ports of Dalian and Shanghai, the project would
provide appropriate piping and valves to connect ship offloading facilities,
at all terminals, to etxisting municipal collection and treatment systems. In
the other four ports, the project would provide offloading facilities connec-
ted to secondary treetment package sewage plants. They would be chosen so as
to be readily expandable to accommodate increases in shipping or to provide
facilities for wastes from the landside of the port operations.
4.12      The treatment facilities will permit treatment to secondary treat-
ment levels, i.e, they will remove most solids and oxygen-demand materials, a
portion of the nutrients, and a portion of associated contaminants. Effluents
will be chlorinated to kill any associated bacteria and pathogens.
4.13      The project will also provide sampling and laboratory testing equip-
ment to permit the monitoring stations of the Port Environmental Protection
Bureaus to monitor the treatment facilities to ensure their proper operation.
These tests will include biochemical and chemical oxygen demands, dissolved
oxygen, suspended solids, turbidity, coliform bacteria, and select pathogens.
4.14      Garbage and Solid Wastes (MARPOL Annex 5).  of the six ports
reviewed, only DPA had an adequate program for the receipt and disposal of
garbage and solid wastes. The other port authorities acknowledged that their
facilities were adequate to receive and treat, at best, 20 percent of the
projected garbage and solid wastes. The project will provide for the purchase
of suitable collection barges and/or trucks for the port authorities and for



- 21 -
the construction of incinerators for the destruction of materials that cannot
be recycled or made into acceptable compost. The solid waste receiving and
disposal facilities will form pare of an overall solid waste management plan
for the port.
4.15      Disposal of garbage and solid wastes has often proved to be a very
contentious issue for municipal units everywhere. As part of the project, the
Association will work closely with the port authorities to ensure that the
proposed port solid waste management plant can be integrated with the
municipal solid waste management plans. In each case, the port authority will
develop a solid waste management plan for ships, wastes and for other solid
wastes generated in the port. Where possible, municipally owned and operated
incineration, compost, and/or landfill facilities will be used to dispose of
solid wastes (e.g., in Dalian and Ningbo). In cases where the port operations
are separate from the main municipal units (e.g., in Tianjin or Guangzhou),
the port authorities will construct and operate their own disposal facilities.
Materials that can be recycled will be first separated out; the remainder are
proposed to be incinerated, since landfill space is highly restricted. In the
case of Shanghai, where port operations are very large, the port authority
will also construct and operate its own facilities. Assurances were obtained
from the six Port Authorities that they will develop their respective waste
management plans by December 31, 1992, send them for the Association's review
and comments, and adopt and implement them by December 31, 1994, taking into
account the Association's comments.
4.16      Incinerators will be designed to meet the criteria for preservation
of air quality. Resultant fly and bottom ash will be disposed of in
appropriate landfill facilities after testing to ensure that contaminants are
suitably immobilized. The project includes sampling and laboratory testing
equipment to permit the monitoring stations of the Port Environment Protection
Bureaus to monitor the treatment facilities to ensure their proper operation.
These tests will include air quality monitoring (both ambient and stack
sampling) and leachate testing of the fly and bottom ash.
4.17      Environment Monitoring Capability.  Under the GEF provisions, the
cost-effectiveness of the proposed facilities are to be determined initially
on the basis of physical rather than monetary measures of global benefits (as
the latter are almost impossible to quantify and measure). In addition, the
GEF-funded projects should operate in an institutional framework which is
favorable to the achievement of broad GEF objectives of global environment
improvement.
4.18      To provide an adequate means of assessing the physical benefits of
the proposed facilities, the project would provide for the purchase of suit-
able sampling and laboratory testing equipment to upgrade or complement exist-
ing capabilities within the Environmental Monitoring Stations of the Port
Environmental Protection Bureaus. A detailed list of proposed laboratory
equipment is available in the project file. With the exception of XPA, all
the ports have the appropriate staff and institutional arrangements in place
to acquire and operate the equipment appropriate to the monitoring require-
ments associated with the proposed reception and treatment facilities. As
detailed later (para. 4.21-4.23), XPA will be provided technical assistance to
develop, set up and staff an Environment Protection Bureau.



- 22 -
4.19      Monitoring activities and responsibilities can be summarized as
follows:
(a) LME study (para. 4.5 above) would eventually monitor international
waters in the Yellow Sea and would be the responsibility of SOA.
(b) Monitoring of coastal waters outside the ports' jurisdiction would
be the responsibility of SOA.
(c) SEATRACK basic information would be the responsibility of the port's
EPBs with feed-in to a central office for control by HSA at MOC
headquarters in Beijing.
(d) Monitoring the water quality inside the ports' jurisdiction would be
the responsibility of HSA in collaboration with the ports' EPBs.
(e) Monitoring the quality of the water discharge and air on-land would
be the responsibility of the ports' EPBs.
The water monitoring activities would assess the quality of effluents from the
facilities, of the receiving waters into which the effluents are discharged
(port waters) and of waters which are no longer impacted as a result of the
project (adjacent coastal waters and sea lanes). The air monitoring activi-
ties would include assessment of relevant stack emissions and air quality
within the adjacent surrounding areas. Monitoring parameters would be
selected to reflect the process being assessed (e.g., petroleum hydrocarbons
in discharges from oil-contaminated water treatment facilities).
4.20      One objective of this project is to promote working relationships
between basic monitoring agencies, such as the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), the State Oceanographic Administration (SOA), and
the Port Environmental Monitoring Stations. This cooperation would include
development of common sampling and sample handling protocols, laboratory test
methodologies, and quality assurance protocols. The development of common
techniques would facilitate a merger of environmental data bases that would
further the capability of NEPA and SOA improve the marine environment quality
reporting. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOC and the
Port Authorities that a coordinating team of representatives of the concerned
Port Authority, EPB, NEPA, and SOA will be established at each port, as agreed
with the Association, by December 31, 1992.
4.21      Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authority.  All the Port Autho-
rities, with the exception of XPA, have institutional arrangements, typically
organized as an Environmental Protection Bureau reporting to a deputy direc-
tor. These bureaus are responsible for all activities related to the full
range of environmental issues, including air and water quality and the opera-
tion of pollution control facilities and associated monitoring.
4.22      XPA has developed an organizational outline for an Environmental
Protection bureau, but at present has neither the resources nor the in-house
capability to implement the plan. Tasks which might be carried out by such a
bureau are undertaken by port staff as necessary on a temporary assignment
basis.



- 23 -
4.23      As part of the project, technical assistance will be provided to XPA
to establish the proposed Bureau (see Draft Scope of Work in Attachment 6).
This assistance will include recommendations on staffing requirements, staff
recruitment and training, facility and equipment needs, and the setting up of
an Environmental Monitoring and Laboratory facility for the port. During
negotiations  assurances were obtained from XPA that it will establish, b
June 30, 1993, an adeluately staffed Environmental Protection Bureau, to
supervise and operate the proposed ships' waste disposal facilities.
C. Project Cost
4.24      Cost Estimates.   The estimated cost of the project, in January 1992
prices, is $64.8 million (Table 3). This includes price escalation contin-
gencies of $2.54 million and a physical contingency allowance of $2.34 mil-
lion. The cost estimates are based on the cost of similar equipment and
facilities as well as designs prepared by the ports. The technical assistance
will involve approximately 38 staff-months. The project is exempt from import
duties and taxes. The costs are summarized below:
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
----- $ million ------  ---- RMB million -----
National Component
Monitoring and tracking           0.65     1.35    2.00    3.49    7.25   10.74
Technical assistance                 -     0.70    0.70      -      3.76    3.76
Subtotal                     0.65     2.05    2.70    3.49   11.01   14.50
Ports' Component
Disposal facilities            38.13    19.06   57.19  204.76  102.35  307.11
Technical assistance               -     0.03    0.03        -    0.16    0.16
Subtotal                    38.13    19.09   57.22  204.76  102.51  307.27
Base cost                   38.78    21.14   59.92  208.25  113.52  321.77
Contingencies:
Physical                        1.48     0.86    2.34    7.95    4.62   12.57
Price                           1.54     1.00    2.54    8.27    5.37   13.64
Total cost                  41.80    23.00   64.80  224.47  123.51  347.98



- 24 -
D. Financing
4.25      The project financing plan is summarized below.  It includes con-
cessional funding from the Global Environment Trust Fund (GEF) of $30 million
and an IDA Credit equivalent to $15 million, with the remainder covered by GOC
and the respective Port Authorities. GOC would be the borrower and would
on-lend the proceeds to the respective Port Authorities, except for money to
be retained by MOC for the national component. During negotiations, assuranc-
es were obtained from GOC that the credit proceeds (except for a small amount
to be retained for MOC) will be on-lent to the Port Authorities on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, namely 1.5 percent interest per
annum, repayable in 15 years, with 5 years, grace period. The Port Authori-
ties will bear the commitment fee and the foreign exchange risk.
Local     Foreign       Total
--------- $ million ---------
PRC                            19.8          -          19.8
GEF                            14.6       15.4          30.0
IDA                             7.4        7.6          15.0
Total                    41.8        23.0         64.8
E. Organization and Management
4.26      Project Implementation.  The project would be implemented and oper-
ated by the Environmental Protection Bureaus of the respective Port Authori-
ties. The project implementation schedule is shown in Schedule 2. The stud-
ies to develop oil spill contingency planning and chemically contaminated
water treatment processes would be implemented by the Environment Protection
Department of MOC working in conjunction with the Environment Protection
Bureaus of the six ports. The technical assistance to the Xiamen Port Author-
ity would be implemented by the Office of the Director of XPA. The monitoring
of the waters will be the responsibility of the EPBs, NEPB, HSA, and SOA, each
in its jurisdiction as previously outlined. Specifications for the equipment
needed are being prepared by the respective Port Authorities under MOC guid-
ance. The project will be closely supervised to ensure satisfactory implemen-
tation (see para. 4.34); the first-year will, in particular, require extra
supervision effort to ensure timely preparation of specifications and issuance
of tenders.
4.27      Procurement.  Civil works contracts will be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB), according to procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion, since they constitute small contracts which would not attract interna-
tional contractors. Very small contracts for civil works, to be agreed with
the Association, each costing $200,000 equivalent or less, and amounting to
less than $2.0 million equivalent in total, would be procured under contracts
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three



- 25 -
Procurement Method
Item                             ICB        LCB      Other        NIF        Total
------------------ $ million ------------------
Civil works                    -          10.85        2.00      6.92       19.77
(IDA)                       _          (1.40)      -          -          (1.40)
(GEF)                       -          (1.53)     (0.54)      -          (2.07)
Equipment                     38.80        -           2.00      3.50       44.30
(IDA)                     (12.60)       -         (1.00)      -         (13.60)
(GEF)                     (26.20)       -         (1.00)      _         (27.20)
Technical assistance            -          -           0.73      -           0.73
(IDA)                                                    -                -
(GEF)                                   -         (0.73)      -          (0.73)
Total                         38.80       10.85        4.73     10.42       64.80
(IDA)                     (12.60)      (1.40)     (1.00)                (15.00)
(GEF)                     (26.20)      (1.53)     (2.27)                (30.00)
Note:  Items in parentheses represent the portions financed by the IDA credit
and GEF grant, respectively.
NIF: Non-IDA/GEF Financed.
suppliers under procedures acceptable to the Association. Contracts for equi-
pment valued at more than $200,000 equivalent will be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers of goods will receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the amount of the import duty,
whichever is lower. Some small items, to be agreed with the Association, each
costing less than $200,000 equivalent, and amounting to less than $2 million
equivalent in total, would be procured under contracts after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three suppliers under proce-
dures acceptable to the Association. Contracts to be awarded under ICB, which
would not be less than 60 percent of the credit value, will be subject to the
Association's prior review of procurement documentation, as will proposed
contract awards. Consultants for the technical assistance will be recruited
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The project is expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1995, and the closing date would be June 30, 1996.
4.28      Disbursements.  All technical assistance and training costs would be
funded from GEF. Other expenditures would be covered from the IDA credit and
from the GEF grant and will cover (a) 27 percent of expenditures on civil
works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on imported goods, 100 percent
of expenditures for locally manufactured goods at ex-factory prices, and
75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (c)
100 percent for consultants, services and training. Disbursements will be
retained by the six Port Authorities and made available on the basis of full
documentation except for reimbursement of expenditures for (technical assis-
tance and training and) contracts for civil works and goods valued at less
than $200,000 each, for which disbursements will be made against statements of



- 26 -
expenditure; supporting documents will be retained by the six Port Authorities
and made available for inspection by IDA staff. The estimated disbursements
are shown in Schedule C. To facilitate disbursement, a joint special account
to be maintained in US dollars would be established in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. The authorized allocation to the
Special Account is $3.0 million, representing four months' average project ex-
penditures to be channelled through the account. Replenishment would be made
quarterly or whenever the account is drawn down by about 50 percent of the
initial deposit.
4.29      Accounts and Audit.  The accounting and record-keeping activities at
each of the six ports and the annual audits of their accounts by the State
Audit Administration are regularly being reviewed by Bank Group staff as part
of the supervision of ongoing projects. During negotiations, assurances will
be sought from each port that (a) it will continue to submit its audited
annual financial statements to the Association not later than six months after
the end of each financial year, and (b) it will keep the accounts of the pro-
ject and will also submit to IDA the audited accounts of the annual project
expenditures not later than six months after the end of each financial year.
4.30      Ecology and Environment.  Implementation of the project will provide
a net benefit to the local and global environment through the decrease in
discharges of ships' wastes in international waters adjacent to the coast of
China. To avoid simple transfer of the problem from the open sea to the port,
the project design has taken into consideration the need to ensure that all
wastes received are properly handled and treated: (a) residues from the
treatment of oily wastes will be recycled as many as possible or used as fuel
in heating plants or brick kilns; (b) sanitary sewage will be processed
through secondary treatment plants, as is now typically undertaken at the more
modern terminal facilities in the ports; (c) garbage and solid wastes will be
sorted with maximum possible recovery of recyclable materials or materials
used for compost.
4.31      Under current Chinese law, such facilities will have to comply with
environmental assessment procedures, including provision of an Environmental
Protection and Compliance Plan within an Environmental Management Structure.
The designs and bid documents for the waste collection and/or disposal facili-
ties will be prepared by the Design Institutes and will follow GOC environment
criteria and guidelines and will be reviewed by the Bank. These reviews will
be undertaken by the appropriate Port Environmental Protection Bureaus.
Liaison will be made with the appropriate Municipal Protection Bureau to
ensure that the designs meet current emission and effluent criteria. Standard
operating practice manuals issued by the port EPB will include elements of
occupational health and safety for port workers operating the treatment facil-
ities.
4.32      Reporting and Evaluation.  The project implementation schedule shows
key project activities and key project monitoring indicators. Quarterly prog-
ress reports will be submitted by the respective Port Authorities according to
a format acceptable to MOC and the Association; this was agreed during nego-
tiations. A final project completion report will be prepared by MOC and sub-
mitted to the Association within six months of completion of the project.
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND JTSTIFICATION



- 27 -
Financial Analysis
5.1       As already mentioned, the ports included in the project are already
being assisted undar ongoing Bank Group loans and credits. Under the relevant
loan/credit agreements, the individual Port Authorities are required to gener-
ate sufficient funds internally from their operating revenues to cover their
debt service obligations, remittances to the Government, and allocations to
special funds. The ports are in compliance with this requirement, and their
financial performance continues to be good, despite some variations in traffic
performance for reasons beyond their control.
5.2       Key indicators summarizing the forecast funds flow for 1992 through
1995 are shown below. Details of the forecast, given in Tables 1 through 6,
show that the financial situation of the ports will be satisfactory and they
will continue to earn healthy surpluses. The ports are expected to continue
to generate sufficient funds internally to finance their ongoing and reason-
able future capital investment needs, including the provision of funds for the
timely implementation and subsequent operation of facilities included in the
project. During 1992-95, each of the Port Authority's contribution towards
its share of the project costs is expected to be met from the surpluses of its
regular port operations. The facilities financed under the project are
expected to start operations in 1995. The cash generation financial covenants
under the respective loan/credit agreements relating to ongoing projects at
each of the ports will continue to hold good. Assumptions used in the finan-
cial forecasts are given in Attachment 7.
5.3       Since the proposed facilities and their operation and maintenance
are separate from the usual port activities, they would be treated as separate
cost and revenue centers. Therefore, in order to maintain the financial
viability of this specific activity of handling ship wastes, new tariffs based
on cost recovery need to be developed for each port under a uniform tariff
structure. The revenue projections relating to the proposed facilities for
the year 1995 used in the accomparying tables are notional and are based on
the concept of full cost recovery. During negotiations, assurance were ob-
tained from GOC and the six Port Authorities that an appropriate tariff sched-
ule based on cost recovery for each type of waste handling and disposal ser-
vices would be developed on the basis of terms of reference agreed with the
Association, submitted to the Association by June 30, 1994, for its comments,
and, taking into account the Association's comments, introduced in each of the
ports by June 30, 1995. A draft of the TOR is given in Attachment 8.
Benefits
5.4         The six ports selected for the project handle some 90 percent of
the international shipping serving the sea-borne foreign trade of the People's
Republic of China. In addition, these ports serve a significant portion of
the country's domestic maritime traffic. In several of the ports, the lack or
poor capability of waste reception facilities obliges the Port Authorities to



- 28 -
PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE PROJECT--SUMMARY
(RMB million)
Tianjin   Huangpu   Dalian   Shanghai   Ningbo  Xiamen
Proposed Project
Capital investment       50.9      53.6     20.0      131.6      44.4    34.0
(proposed project)
External financing       35.7      37.6     14.0       92.4      31.2    23.9
Ports contribution       15.2      16.0      6.0       39.2      13.2    10.1
Net funds flow from
proposed project
in 1995                4.5        4.8      1.8       10.3       3.9     4.3
Surplus (deficit)    (10.7)    (11.2)    (4.2)    (28.9)       (9.3)   (5.8)
Regular port operations
Net funds flow:
Surplus (deficit)    109.1       81.5     79.7      302.6     100.9    80.5
Consolidated:
Net surplus/
(deficit)           98.4       70.3     75.5     273.7       91.6    74.7
allow ships to discharge their wastes at sea or has created considerable
delays in serving the ships. This contributes to port inefficiency and to
pollution of both international and Chinese coastal waters. An economic
return analysis has not been attempted, as the benefits to China (and the
international community) are not directly measurable. However, provision of
the proposed facilities should contribute to a major improvement to the marine
environment quality and serve as a model for establishing similar facilities
in other Chinese ports.
Risks
5.5       The main risks relate to project implementation and cost recovery.
As this is a substantially new activity for most of the ports, technical
assistance through close project supervision will be provided to ensure satis-
factory implementation. As to cost recovery, PRC's record in the matter of
introducing adequate cost recovery mechanisms has so far been good and GOC has
agreed that there would be no difficulty in the ports introducing a tariff
scheduled based on cost recovery for the new services.



- 29 -
VI.  AGREEMENrS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of
the People's Republic of China and the Port Authorities on the following:
(a) GOCt
(i) GOC will prepare by December 31, 1992, in consultation with the
Association, the TOR and the complete program for a study of
the Yellow Sea marine ecosystem (para. 4.6);
(ii) the chemically contaminated water treatment study will be com-
pleted by December 31, 1993, and the results implemented in
consultation with the Association (para. 4.8);
(iii) GOC will on-lend the proceeds of the credit to the respective
Port Authorities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 4.25);
(b)  Port Authorities:
(i) the Guangzhou Port Authority will enter into arrangements sat-
isfactory to the Association with the Guangzhou Bureau of Mari-
time Transport Administration to handle the oily ballast and
bilge waters for all port users at the proposed BOMTA facility
at Xin Zhao (this will eliminate the need for a separate GPA
facility) (para. 3.16);
(ii) all six ports will have prepared and adopted an oil spill con-
tingency plan by July 31, 1994 (para. 4.5);
(iii) all six Port Authorities will develop their respective waste
management plans by December 31, 1992, send them for the
Association's review and comments, and implement them, taking
into account the Associatiou.'s comments, by December 31, 1994
(para. 4.15);
(iv) the Xiamen Port Authority will establish, by June 30, 1993, an
adequately staffed Environmental Protection Bureau to supervise
and operate the proposed ships, waste disposal facilities
(para. 4.23); and
(v) the six Port Authorities will submit quarterly progress reports
on the project according to a format acceptable to the Associa-
tion (para. 4.32).



- 30 -
(c) GOC a d the Port Authorities jointlys
(i) uoC and each of the Port Authorities will set up a coordinating
team of representatives of the concerned Port Authority, EPA,
NEPA, and SOA, as agreed with the Association, by December 31,
1992 (para. 4.20); and
(ii) GOC and the Port Authorities will submit to the Association, by
June 30, 1994, a proposal for an appropriate tariff schedule,
based on cost recovery, for the services of the waste disposal
facilities; and this will be introduced by all six ports by
June 30, 1995, taking into account the Association's comments
(para. 5.3).
6.2       Approval of the credit agreement by China's State Council, fulfill-
ment of conditions precedent to the GET Grant Agreement, and execution of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and DPA, TPA, SPA, NPA, GPA
and XPA, satisfactory to the Association, are conditions of effectiveness of
the credit.
6.3       With the above agreements and conditions, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 11.0 million (equivalent to $15.0
million) to the People's Republic of China. The credit will be on standard
terms, with 35 years' maturity and 10 years' grace.



- 31 -
SCHEDULE A
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.   Dalian Port Project, SAR No. 6588-CHA, January 5, 1988
2.   Tianjin Port Project, SAR No. 5856-CHIA, March 17, 1986
3.   (i)  Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project, Shanghai Port, SAR No. 7257-CHA,
November 16, 1988
(ii) Ningbo Port, SAR No. 7297-CHA, November 16, 1988
4.   Huangpu Port Project, SAR No. 6230-CHA, August 28, 1987
5.   Xiamen Port Project, SAR No. 7296-CHA, November 16, 1988
6.   Detailed List of Laboratory Equipment to be Funded under the Project.
7.   Laws and regulations in China regarding the protection of the
environment.



- 32 -
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Project Im2lementation Schedule
Action                      Responsibility        Starting     Completion
Date          Date
1. Oil boom materials
material identification        Port Authorities      05/01/92      08/01/92
material sourcing              Port Authorities      07/01/92      09/01/92
approve purchase               MOC/Port Authorities 09/01/92       10/01/92
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      10/01/92      03/01/93
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      03/01/93      09/01/93
2. oil water treatment facilities
prepare plans                  Port Authorities      05/01/92      09/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities     09/01/92       12/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 12/01/92       01/01/93
call LCB tenders               Port Authorities      02/01/93      04/01/93
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      02/01/93      06/01/93
initiate construction          Port Authorities     08/01/93       12/01/94
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      08/01/94      10/01/94
install equipment              Port Authorities     10/01/94       02/01/95
3. Sewage systems
prepare plans                  Port Authorities      05/01/92      09/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities     09/01/92       11/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 12/01/92       02/01/93
call LCB tenders               Port Authorities      03/01/93      06/01/93
call ICB tenders               Port Authorities      03/01/93      08/01/93
initiate construction          Port Authorities     07/01/93       07/01/94
purchase equipment             Port Authorities      03/01/93      01/01/94
install equipment              Port Authorities     01/01/94       04/01/94
4. Garbage systems
prepare plans                  Port Authorities      05/01/92      08/01/92
prepare construction
specifications               Port Authorities      07/01/92      09/01/92
approve plans                  MOC/Port Authorities 09/01/92       11/01/92



- 33 -
SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 2
Action                      Responsibility        Starting     Completion
Date          Date
call LCB tenders           Port Authorities          11/01/92      03/01/93
call ICB tenders           Port Authorities          11/01/92      04/01/93
initiate construction     Port Authorities          04/01/93       04/01/94
purchase equipment         Port Authorities          05/01/93      12/01/93
install equipment          Port Authorities         01/01/94       04/01/94
5. Environmental monitoring stations
prepare plans              Port Authorities          05/01/92      08/01/92
prepare construction
specifications          Port Authorities          07/01/92       09/01/92
approve plans             MOC/Port Authorities       09/01/92      10/01/92
call LCB tenders           Port Authorities          10/01/92      01/01/93
call ICB tenders           Port Authorities          10/01/92      02/01/93
initiate construction   Port Authorities          12/01/92       12/01/93
purchase equipment         Port Authorities          02/01/93      12/01/93
install equipment         Port Authorities           12/01/93      02/01/94
staff training             Port Authorities         06/01/93       02/01/94
6. Oil Spill Contingency Planning Study
select consultant         HOC/IDA                    07/01/92      10/01/92
developing plan            MOC/consultant            01/01/93      05/01/93
staff training            MOC/consultant            06/01/93       12/01/93
equipment selection        MOC/consultant            01/01/94      05/01/94
7. Chemically Contaminated Waters Study
select consultant         MOC/IDA                   07/01/92       10/01/92
assess problem            MOC/consultant             11/01/92      01/01/93
develop effluent
criteria                MOC/consultant            01/01/93       04/01/93
design system              MOC/consultant            04/01/93      08/01/94
8. Technical Assistance to XPA
select consultant          XPA/MOC/IDA               05/01/92      08/01/92
prepare plan               XPA/consultant            08/01/92      09/01/92
staff training             XPA/consultant            12/01/92      03/01/93
program implementation    XPA                        03/01/93      06/01/93



- 34 -
SCHEDULE C
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a /b
IDA Fiscal             IDA                    GEF              Percent     Cumulative
Year & Quarter   Quarter  Cumulative   Quarter   Cumulative   IDA/GEF    Disbursement
Profile for
Transport Pro-
jects in China
1993
12/31/92               -        -          3.0          3.0         6.6             0.0
03/31/92               -        -          -            3.0         6.6
06/30/92               -        -          3.0          6.0        13.2             6.0
1994
09/30/93               -        -          6.0         12.0        26.7
12/31/93               -        -          6.0         18.0        40.0            11.0
03/31/94               -        -          6.0         24.0        53.3
06/30/94               -        -          2.0         26.0        57.8            16.0
1995
09/30/94               3.0      3.0        2.0         28.0        68.9
12/31/94               3.0      6.0        2.0         30.0        80.0           24.0
03/31/95               3.0      9.0        -           30.0        86.7
06/30/95               1.0     10.0        -           30.0        88.9            31.0
1996
09/30/95               3.0     13.0        -           30.0        95.6
12/31/95               2.0     15.0        -           30.0       100.0            57.0
/a Because of limited scope of works which are supplementary to ongoing Bank Group
projects, this credit is expected to be disbursed much faster than country or regional
disbursement profiles. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1995, and the
closing date is June 30, 1996.
/b Disbursements from the IDA credit will begin following completion of disbursements
from the GEF grant.



- 35 -
ATTACHMENT 1
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
International Conventinsu for the Prevention
of Marine Pollution
1.        The International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution,
known simply as MARPOL 73/78, has currently five annexes covering discharges
from ships. These are:
-    Annex I:   oily wastes - such as ballast water and slops from oil
tankers; oily bilge water from engine room and other
spaces; fuel residues; and waste oil.
-    Annex II:  noxious liquid substances in bulk - tank resir es after
discharge of cargo.
-    Annex III: harmful substances carried in packaged form, in freight
containers, portable tanks.
-    Annex IV:  Sewage - This annex is not yet in force because of
limited sewage reception facilities at ports worldwide at
present.
-    Annex V:   Garbage - including food wastes, plastics; oily ragse
packing materials; and dunnage.
2.        Certain sea areas have been designated by IMO through the Marine
Environment Protection Committee (MEPC) as "Special Areas" in view of their
particular sensitivity to pollution and the need to protect very valuable
marine areas, species and shorelines. Currently the Mediterranean, the North
Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and the Wider Caribbean are amongst areas designated
as special. Within these areas only certain wastes can be discharged from
ships depending on which MARPOL 73/78 Annex is concerned.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Summary of Present Situation and Recommended Actions
It"m                    Dalian                      Tianjin                     Shanghai                  Ningbo                 Quangzhou                    Xiamen
Current situstion      Ballast water treatment      Treatment vemeel only       BOVTA has converted       Refinery terminal       bOTA treats its own        Port has no reception
*t Crude Oil Terminal;        usable 60  of year.        tanker treating 2000       tratx  ltS own         ballast waters using       or treatment facili-
bIle a ter and tank                                      tons/day. SPA has          ballast waters         a converted tanker         ties.
wash treatment at Re-         Treatment capacity          limited number of         (10,000 tons/yr).       (400 tons/hr).
fined Oil Terminal.           below rquirements.         treatment barges.
Large tankers at       Port handles bilge
Facilities IS-yr- old                                                               anchoroge die-         water- using  ml
and need refurbishing;                                                             charge at sea*   am     collection vessls
additional requirements                                                            port facilities         and trests at various
projected.                                                                         are inadequate,         private facilities.
Recommended           Refurbish existing            Refurbish existing          Port to build new         Port to build new       Since  ITA is              Port to purchase now
action                facilities to restore         barge to rostore             land-based treatment      land-based treat-      building new land-         oil collection and
processing rate at Crude      treatment copacity to      facility for 300.000      oent facility for       based facility. port       treatent barge (200-
Terminal to 1000 tons-        30 tons/hr.                 tons/yr. with room       ballast waters (at      does not need its own       tonne capacity). 
/hr.. Rfined Terminal                                    to expand to 600,000      beilun).                facility.
to 400 tons/hr.               Port to have access to    tons (at                                                                      Purchase spill contain-
proposed Oil Terminal      Vaigaoqiao).              Port to refurbish       Port to purchase new       mnt boo_& for routine
Purchas  new opill con-       balleat water treat-                                 existing 60-tonne       oil collection barge       ussge during on/off-
tainmnt booms for rou-        sent facility.             Convert another tan-      treatment barge,        and treat at OTA            loading.
tine u-sge during                                        ker for ballast-                                  facility.
on/off-loading.               Purchase spill con-         water processing         Port to purchase
teinoent booms for          (300,000 tons/yr. at     300-500-tonne           Purchase spill con-
New autoetic monitoring       routine uspe during         Liuhukou).                barge.                 t;inment booms for
equipment for both            on/off-loading,                                                              routine usage during
Terminals.                                                Purchase spill con-       Purchase spill         on/off-loading.
teinoent booms for        containment boos
rorutine usago during    for routine usage
on/off-loading,           during on/off-
loading.
Chomicalnv Contam noted Waters
Current situstion     No treatoent facilities        No treatment facili-       No treatment facil-       Treatment facili-       No treatsent               No treatmnt facilities
ties                       ities for ballnat         ties for ballast        facilities
waters; small-scale      waters at Bulk
treatment for con-       Chemical Plant
taener wash.              (Zhenhai).
No treatment for
container wash at
Bi Ilun or Zh*nhai.
Recommended            Design facilitios for         Design facilities for      Design facilities         No need to upgrade      No facilities to be        No facilities to be
action                organic contaminante.         organic contaminants        for organic contai-       Zhenhai facilities      built at this time,        built at this time.
from ballast waters at      inants from ballast      as traffic too
proposed Chemical          waters,                   low.                    Future plans for
Terminal,                                                                    chemical plants and
Dangerous Cargo Tar-
minal identify need
for staff training.
l.A  I
O 
r b



Item                     Dalian                      Tianjin                      Shanghai                  Ningbo                  Quangzhou                    Xiamen
Sanitary Saewm
Current. aituation     City has treatment             Municipality has no         Municipality has           Municipality has        Municipality has no        Municipality has no
planti Port has no            treateent plant; Port        extensive collection      no facilitios;          facilities.  Port           facilities.  Port
*acilities for ships.         has no facilities for        and tre*tment             Port unable to          unable to trst              unable to treat ships'
ships.                      syte; Port has no         treat ships              &hips' wastes.             wastes.
faci ities for            wastes.
ships.
Recommended            Connect to City system.        Enlarge East Pier           Connect terminals to      Alteration of Iron       Purchase 2 collection      Build secondary troat-
action                                                facility to accommo-        City system to ac-        Ore treatment fa-        barges (200-tonne ca-      sont plant at Donggu
date ships' needs.          commodate ships'          cility for sewage        pacity).                   Terminals.
neods,                    at Seilun.
Build nev facility for                                                         Build secondary
South Side Terminals.                                 Connect to pro-          treatmnt plant at
posd Zhenhai            Hong Shang Sha Ir-
district and port       land.
syst.
Current situation      Adequate:  Port trans-         Oarbeio now barged to       Garbage now barged        Garbage now bargod       Carbage now barged to      Carbage not collected.
for* wastes to City           Municipal incinersto...      to Port incinerator,      to Zhenh i incin-       smallI port incinera-
systes. where they are                                                               orator.                 tor.
incinerated.                  Capacity inadequate.        Cpaecity inadequate.
Capacity inade-         Capacity inadequate.
qusto.
Recommended            None.                          Purchaose new barge         Build two new in-         Purchase new 50-         Bu'ild new incinerator     Purchase 100-ton caps-
action                                                (100-ton capacity).         cinrators.                ton capacity             at Hon  Sheng Shi.         city collection barge.
bargo.                  Capacity 20
tonnes/day.                Build now incinerator.
Build new 2000                                     capacity I ton/day.
oq.m. handling fa-
cility at Zhenhzi.
Purchase 2 garbage
trucks.
Build new 10-
tonnos/day incin-
erator.
Oil-Spill Contin-
Current situation      Plan developed; use old       No plan; do not use          Plan developed, but       No plan developed;       No plan developed; do      No plan developed; do
containment booms on          oil containment boom         not rev ismod; do not     do not use oil          not use oil contain-        not use oil containment
routine ba si; no other       during off-loading; no      use oil containment        containment booms       sent boom  during           booms during off-load-
equipment for response.       equi pment for               boom  during off-         during off-load-        off-loading; no             ing; no equipment for
respone.                    Ioading; 2 old            ing; no equipment       equipmnt for spill          spill response.
skimmers for  spill       for spill               responu.
respon-.                  response.
"D  0
0 z



item                    Dalian                     Tianjin                    Shanghai                 Nlngbo                Quanghou                    Xia_n
R    _coMded          Review entingncy plan.    Revie contingency             Review contingncy        Develop contin-        Develop contingency       Devolop contingency
wction                                             plan.                      plan.                    gency plan.            plan.                     pln.
Purchas oi l boom- *lick
lickers; abeorbenti         Purchas  oil boom;         Purchas  oil boom;       Purcham  oil boom;    Purchaee oil bos;           Purchase oil boom;
communications  quip-        slick lickers; *b-         slick lickers; ab-       slick lickers; *b-    slick lickers; aboor-    slick lickers; abeor-
sent; work boats.            sorbent; co-mnica-         sorbent; commnica-       sorb nt; co_ni-        bent; co_nicationn        bent; counication
tions equipment; work      tions equipment;         cati    eqipment;      equipmt; work              quipment; work boats.
boats,                     work boast.             work boats,             boats.
Evi ronant Lab-
Current Situation     Need additional oil          Limited to analytical      Old analytical and       Limited laboratory     No laboratory or          No laboratory or
testing  quipment,           and sampling equip-        "apling  quipment.       and  apl               sampling   quipment.      sspling equp_ment.
ment.                                                 eentor
Zh nn so
Raco_mended           Purchase oil testing         Purchase needed equip-    Purchase needed           Purchas  needed        Purchas  needed           Purchse needd ewuip-
action                cquipm_nt.                   wnt.                        quipment.                quipment.              uipment. Complete        mnt.
build.ing.
(b
tD   z



- 39 -
ATTACHMENT 3
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Oil Spill Contingency Planning and Response Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The proposed technical assistance and institutional development
component for oil spill contingency planning and response supports China's
program under MARPOL. While China and its ports have recognized the potential
problems of oil spills, they lack the expertise to develop complete contin-
gency plans, adequately train staff and select appropriate equipment. All of
the ports reviewed handle considerable quantities of petroleum hydrocarbons,
as both crude oil and refined products, with projected increases in both the
volume and size of the carriers being handled. Table 1 provides data for the
six ports for the past three years. Of the six ports surveyed, only DPA
deploys oil booms around the tankers during loading and off-loading.
2.        Contingency plans developed for the Ports of Dalian and Shanghai are
elementary in concept and place emphasis on response organizatior. and equip-
ment needs. Identification of ecologically-sensitive areas, potential prob-
lems for water users (e.g., cooling water intakes, fishing areas), available
staff and disposal of collected materials) has not been considered. Further,
such plans have been developed in each port and therefore lack a consistency
which a "generic" model would provide; i.e., each port has had to develop its
own plan. Accordingly, this project would provide technical assistance to MOC
to develop a national center under the Harbor Superintendency Branch which
presently has the institutional authority to assume command of spill response.
It is proposed that this agency would also assume responsibility for providing
general guidance on contingency planning, staff training in both contingency
planning and spill response, and provide a central "clearing house" for news
and information. As necessary, this agency could also coordinate equipment
and manpower from several ports in the event of a major spill.
3.        The second task within this project will be the provision of techni-
cal assistance to develop a "generic" contingency plan and to tailor this plan
to the specific needs of the six ports. This will provide two benefits: (a)
provision of a "generic" plan which the Harbor Superintendency can then adapt
to specific needs in conjunction with concerned port; and (b) training of the
central agency and port staff during the development of these plans.
4.        The third element is the provision of staff training in spill
response. Although China is anxious to have the capability to respond to
spills and leakage, it was recognized that many of the ports lacked staff
trained in spill response and the use of spill response equipment and chemi-
cals. Training manuals and videos will be used and information packages will



- 40 -
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Large Marine Ecosystem Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        LMEs, or Large Marine Ecosystems, are relatively large areas of the
global exclusive economic zones, generally more than 200,000 km , character-
ized by unique bathymetry, hydrography, and productivity, within which marine
populations have adapted to suitable reproductive, feeding and growth strate-
gies. LMEs are thus naturally existing ecological units of ocean space.
2.        On a global basis, nearly 95 percent of the biomass yields from the
oceans are from the currently identified LMEs, currently some 50 in rruiber.
This demarcation provides a convenient and manageable mechanism for improved
international cooperation in marine monitoring, modelling and management.
Wile important work remains to be done in identifying the various forces which
control biomass yields and fluctuations in individual LMEs, the expertise and
technology needed to answer these questions is at hand. These are among areas
that are becoming increasingly stressed from pollution, natural environment
perturbation, and overexploitation of living resources.
3.        The LME approach is being increasingly used by international agen-
cies as a more manageable way of tackling ocean pollution problems, although
this too has its drawbacks as some LMEs need the cooperative efforts of a very
large number of countries; for example, the Caribbean Sea is shared by 38
countries. It is planned to initiate the application of this approach to the
Yellow and China Seas under the proposed ship waste project.
Study Objectives
4.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) assess the state of marine pollution;
(b) assess the impacts that coastal development activities, including
the current ship waste disposal project, may have on the marine
environment or on the protection and use of renewable marine
resources on a sustainable basis; and
(c) develop a sound basis for continuous monitoring of the marine envi-
ronment.
Scope of Work
5.        Run the production-pollution-biodiversity monitoring module, which
involves the use of continuous plankton recorders (CPR). CPR are towed behind
ships-of-opportunity (commercial vessels) making quantitative collections of



- 41 -
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 2 of 2
phytoplankton and zooplankton while also measuring up to 18 oceanographic
variables including:  temperature; turbidity; chlorophyll a; bioluminescence;
petrogenic hydrocarbons; salinity; upwelling and downwelling irradiance; dis-
solved oxygen; and nitrates and nitrites. This suite of measurements, along
with the plankton collections, allows oceanographers to determine the general
health and productivity of the ecosystem as well as providing indications of
changes in biodiversity.
6.        The monitoring program should include collection of comprehensive
information on fish populations in the LME. This can be accomplished through
the use of small, inexpensive chartered trawling vessels, hired locally, which
collect samples of pelagic and demersal fishes. These fish are examined for
gross pathology including tumors and lesions which have been shown in many
other LMEs to be indicative of excessive marine pollution levels. In addi-
tion, fish age, growth and reproductive characteristics are determined. This
provides information on general stock health and indicates whether fish
resources in the LME are in a state of increase or decline. This type of
information is particularly important in an LME such as the Yellow Sea where
the human population depends very heavily upon local fish stocks as a source
of healthful, inexpensive protein.
Schedules
7.        Schedules of implementation should be prepared and adequate staffing
provided for.
Cost Estimate
8.        The cost estimate of the study should be detailed and explained to
facilitate seeking assistance from international institutions.



- 42 -
ATTACHMENT 5
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chemically Contaminated Water Treatment Study
Draft Scope of Work
1.        Import and export of chemical cargoes, as both bulk and as contain-
erized cargo, is becoming an increasingly important cargo type for the six
ports reviewed. Many of the actual or proposed cargoes are of a petrochemical
base, such as benzene, xylene, toluene or chemical feedstocks for plastics or
industrial goods manufacturing (e.g., alkane alcohols, ethylene glycol). This
cargo increase introduces the problem of treatment and discharge of ballast,
bilge and tank wash waters and wash waters from containers that are contami-
nated due to the chemical cargoes. Under MARPOL Annex 2, ports are obliged to
provide adequate reception and treatment facilities.  While the Port
Authorities readily recognized the need for facilities, they lack the exper-
tise to identify, install and operate appropriate facilities. There was also
the problem of the variable nature of the cargoes handled; e.g., the Port of
Dalian imports 17-20 different major chemicals.
2.        Of the six project ports, only the Port of Ningbo has developed
extensive reception and treatment facilities for chemically-contaminated
waters. The facilities, located in the Zhenhai Terminals, are capable of
neutralizing acids and treating volatile chemicals, such as benzene and more
complex chemicals, such as ethylene glycol. However, the facility is
presently used mostly for importing of cargoes, thus generating little need
for the facility. This has resulted in deterioration of the equipment and a
need for refurbishing.
3.        Only the Port of Shanghai has developed simple exchange systems to
treat water used to clean containers used for shipment of chemical cargoes.
These systems have a small treatment capacity and are used primarily to remove
traces of chemicals.
4.        The proposed project will include a study to assess and develop a
treatment system for chemically-contaminated waters. The study will be
divided into three phases:
(a) to assess the nature and quantities of chemical cargoes now or pro-
jected to be handled through the ports;
(b)  to designate, jointly with staff from HOC and NEPA, effluent crite-
ria for the chemical substances contaminating the ballast, bilge and
wash waters;



- 43 -
ATTACHMENT 5
Page 2 of 2
(c) to design a treatment system that will be "generic" and modular in
structure, so that it can be tailored to best handle the different
types and quantities of chemicals handled in each port.
5.        The project will require consultant expertise to undertake the three
tasks for approximately 16 staff-months. An allocation of $250,000 is
included for this purpose.



- 44 -
ATTACHMENT 6
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Xiamen Port Authoritv
Draft Scope of Work
1.        The Xiamen Port Authority does not have at present an Environmental
Protection Bureau to undertake its portion of the project. However, XPA has
developed the organizational outline for an Environmental Protection Bureau,
but lacks the expertise and resources to recruit staff and implement an
Environmental Monitoring Facility.
2.        As part of the understandings on this project, XPA has agreed to
establish and staff the proposed Environmental Protection Bureau. As part of
this project, technical assistance will be given to XPA to assist in the com-
pletion of three tasks:
(a) identification of staffing requirements;
(b) staff training; and
(c)  identification of facilities and equipment for the Environmental
Monitoring and Laboratory facility.
3.        The technical assistance will be provided by an expert/consultant
hired for not more than two months to undertake the three tasks. A sum of
$30,000 is included under the project for the purpose. Implementation of the
recommended facilities is also provided for under the project.



- 45 -
ATTACHMENT 7
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Financial Evaluation
1.        The updated financial information for years 1989 and 1990 has been
obtained from audit reports and/or latest estimates.
2.        The annual projections for years 1991 through 1995 are based on the
above-updated financial information and are calculated as followw:
Operating revenues :  SAR 1/ growth rates
Operating expenses :   SAR rates of increases
Interest expense   :  SAR updated
Non-operating items:   SAR updated
Taxes and payments      Based on 1990 rate applied to future net
to state                operating incomes
Depreciation        :  SAR updated
State contribution :  SAR updated
Borrowings              SAR updated
Applications        :  SAR Updated
3.        The completed project facilities are expected to start operations in
1995 and the assumptions relating to operating expenses and interest and
revenues are as follows:
Expenses
operating and maintenance expenses:   10% of capital investment costs
Depreciation                       :  10% of capital investment costs
Interest                           :  IDA credit relent at 1.5% p.a. for
15 years with 5 years' grace
1/   Staff Appraisal Reports (SAR) referred to above are the following:
Tianjin Port (Ln 2689-CHA); SAR No. 5856 CHA)
Huangpu Port (Ln 2877-CHA; Cr 1845-CHA; SAR No. 6230-CHA)
Dalian Port (Ln 2907-CHA, Cr 1875-CHA; SAR No. 6588-CHA)
Shanghai Port (Ln 3006-CHA; SAR No. 7257-CHA)
Ningbo Port (Ln 3006-CHA; SAR No. 7297-CHA)
Xiamen Port (Ln 3007-CHA; SAR No. 7296-CHA)



- 46 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 1 of 5
C_INA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Establishing a
Costing and Tariff System for
Waste Reception and Disposal Services
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of China (GOC) has decided to introduce a program of
environmental meisures in six ports, viz.: Tianjin, Huangpu, Dalian,
Shanghai, Ningbo and Xiamen.
2.        This will be achieved by providing operating facilities and systems
in each port for the reception, treatment and disposal of ships' wastes in an
environmentally sound manner in accordance with international conventions. An
important requirement is that GOC and the Port Authorities operate the facili-
ties in a financially viable manner, including the introduction of a tariff
schedule based on full-cost recovery and appropriate commercial practice and
the maintenance of sound accounting and costing practices with regard to the
ships' wastes disposal program.
1I. OBJECTIVES
3.        The purpose of the consultancy services is to:
(a) Design a tariff structure based on each function, activity or
service such as reception, treatment, and disposal involved in the
handling of the ships' wastes based on cost recovery for each type
of waste and additionally design tariff levels/unit rates for each
function, activity or service mentioned above. The tariff structure
would be uniform for all the ports but the tariff levels/unit rates
would vary from port to port;
(b) Deve'op operating accounts and accounts classifications (cost/
service/revenue centers) at each port to record costs and revenues
relating to each type of waste and the function, activity or service
involved so that tariff levels/rates can be established with the
full knowledge of the total costs for such function, activity or
service;
(c) Publish a tariff manual and a cost accounting manual setting forth
the applicable policies, procedures, classifications, definitions,
and tariff categories and rates.



- 47 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 2 of 5
II. SCOPE OF WORK
General
4.        The consultants shall carry out according to internationally accep-
ted standards their assignment and their investigations, formulations of con-
cepts, conclusions, designs and recommendations, implementation of tariff and
cost accounting systems, and the training of staff in order to achieve the
objectives set forth in Section II above. The consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Port Authorities and the Government agencies in the performance
of their work, it being understood that the latter two will provide all rele-
vant technical, financial, statistical and other data, studies and reports.
The consultants shall review in detail the information, in particular any
tariff, accounting and cost studies already carriee out in connection with the
ongoing projects financed by the World Bank Group at these ports, and make use
of such studies. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however, for
the analysis and interpretation of all information received, and for the find-
ings, conclusions and recommendations made by them.
Work Program
5.        The work program is to be carried out in three sequential stages:
Stage 1
6.        The consultants shall:
(a) first familiarize themselves with the prevailing practices and poli-
cies at each port regarding tariff schedules and accounting systems;
(b) design and recommend a new sschedule of tariff structure and levels
for the ships' wastes handling operations at each port. The tariff
structure should consist of categories for each type of wastes such
as oily wastes, chemicals, sewage, garbage, etc., under each func-
tion, activity or service, such as reception, treatment and disposal
of these wastes and should be uniform for all the ports. The tariff
levels/unit rates for each tariff category should take into account
the full cost of the function, activity or service (arrived at
through cost/service/revenue centers) including cost of capital and
the financial objectives of each port. The tariff levels/rates
would vary from port to port;
(c) design and recommend a double-entry activity and accrual based cost
accounting system and accounts classifications to record the cost of
the ships' wastes handling operations at each port on a uniform
basis. The system should provide for functional accounts based on
cost/service/revenue centers covering the full range of operations
such as reception treatment and disposal for each type of waste, and
character of expense types such as salaries and benefits, materials



- 48 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 3 of 5
and supplies, purchased services, depreciation, interest, etc. The
costing system should also develop and provide statistical informa-
tion on operating plans and actuals, capacity utilization, etc. The
objectives of the cost breakdown should be the availability of
information for the control of costs through improvements in produc-
tivity, the provision of costs for each category or type of opera-
tion for determining total costs of an operation and for developing
analytical details for determining productivity and performance
levels. The recommended system should be capable of mechanization
and full integration into the existing accounting systems and proce-
dures.
(d) it would be entirely appropriate for the consultants to consider
various alternatives of incentives built into the tariff schedule
and recommend one which would encourage ships to use the wastes
handling facilities at each of the ports and thus would best serve
the achievement of the project's objectives. Such alternatives may
include: (i) in the early years of operation, say for a trial
period of five years, the tariffs could be designed to cover just
the variable costs and a portion of the fixed costs, thus providing
a stimulant for the ships to get into the habit of using the new
facilities; (ii) designing a system for the determination of quanti-
ties of wastes on the basis of what would be the total accumulation
of various types of wastes in a ship from the time the ship left the
previous port of call where facilities for ships' wastes handling
are available to the time of its arrival at the Chinese port con-
cerned, etc.
However, the enforcement of environmental safeguards (including the
deterrents/penalties against the dumping of ships' wastes) under the
national laws and/or international conventions to which China sub-
scribe would come under the regulatory responE,'bilities of govern-
mental and/or parastatal agencies. While such activities reinforce
the objectives underlying the tariff policies, they do not play any
direct role in the formulation or calculation of the tariff struc-
ture and levels. In this respect, the consultants should look into
the adequacy of the deterrents and penalties as inducement towards
achieving the objectives of the project. They should, for example,
ascertain whether the deterrents and penalties are strong enough to
prevent dumping of the wastes at sea, or whether the level of the
deterrents and penalties are so low that ships may find it conve-
nient to dump and to pay the penalties.
(e)  prepare (i) a tariff manual setting forth the policies and proce-
dures of tariff setting, a general tariff structure for all the
ports and individual tariff rates for each port, and (ii) a cost
accounting manual setting forth a coded chart of accounts and defi-
nitions, descriptions of cost classifications, methods and proce-
dures.



- 49 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 4 of 5
Stage 2
7.        The consultants shall help implement the above recommendations on
tariff schedule and cost accounting system upon approval by GOC and the Port
Authorities. The consultants shall also train the port staff in the concepts
and operational techniques relevant to each system. Such training shall
include on-the-job, classroom and other training. The consultants shall in
addition recommend other methods of training including specialized training
abroad and familiarization visits to ports where similar operations exist.
Stage 3
8.        The consultants shall visit the ports on a follow-up basis within 12
months after the implementation of the work program under Stage 2 to ensure
that the tariff schedule and cost accounting system are working satisfac-
torily; in particular that the staff are fully familiar with and capable of
operating all aspects of the tariff and costing systems and that they clearly
understand the relationships between the two systems.
IV. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTANTS' SERVICES AND REPORTS
9.        The assignment would cover a total of about nine staff months as
follows. Commencing on or about March 1, 1992, the consultants would provide
inputs of: one month for the familiarization review, two months for designing
and recommending the new tariff schedule and cost accounting system, five
months for implementing the new systems and training ports staff; and, one
month for a follow-up visit after the start of operations of the new facili-
ties. The new system is expected to be fully operational by December 31,
1994.
10.       The consultants shall commence work within 30 calendar days of the
effective date of the services contract. The following reports should be
prepared and submitted within the time limit indicated below:
(a) an Inception Report within three months (or as otherwise agreed) of
the starting date describing the consultants' initial findings,
outlining the methodology to be employed and listing preliminary
proposals, plans a.-' o:ograms and bar charts showing breakdown of
work by individuals r_ 'onsible and by components and their time
frame (number of copies of the report and their distribution to be
defined);
(b) an Interim Report within six months of the starting date (or as
otherwise agreed) summarizing all work performed, the consultants'
findings and recommendations and bar charts showing progress of work
and work completion schedule (number of copies of the report and
their distribution to be defined);



- 50 -
ATTACHMENT 8
Page 5 of 5
(C) a Final Report within 12 months of the starting date or on comple-
tion of assignment (or am otherwise agreed) incorporating all revi-
sions to and updating of the interim report and summary of
additional work performed, the consultants' findings and recommenda-
tions and bar charts showing work performed by individual responsi-
bilities and by components together with copies of the tariff and
cost accounting manuals referred to in Section III, stage I (d)
above (number of copies of the report and the manuals and their
distribution to be defined).
V.  ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, TARIFFS, ACCOUNTING, PERSONNEL,STATISTICAL
(INCLUDING SHIP MOVEMENTS), AND TECHNICAL DATA AVAILABLE
11.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide consultants all
existing data, studies and reports.
VI. COOPERATION OF GOVERUHENTAL AGENCIES AND COUNTERPARTS
12.       In connection with work by the consultants that require the coopera-
tion of other governmental agencies or authorities, the individual Port
Authorities ate to provide liaison and to ensure that the consultants have
access to all information required for the completion of the work program.
13.       The individual Port Authorities are to assign, on a full-time basis,
appropriate counterparts to work with the consultants for the purposes of
liaison, training, prompt review of the findings and recommendations of the
consultants, and the implementation of approved recommendations.
VII. FACILITIES AND SUPPORTING STAFF OR THE CONSULTANTS
14.       The individual Port Authorities are to provide the following facili-
ties and staff to help the consultants in performing the services:
(a) office space and furniture;
(b) transportation within China, and
(c) utilities, telephone and telex services (to be determined).
15.       The individual Port Authorities are to assist the consultants in
locating satisfactory and appropriate hotel or other living accommodations in
the vicinity of each port.



- 51 -
Table 1
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chinese Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water
Basic Requiroemnts:  All water bodies must not contain the following matter from non-natural
sourcoe:
a All precipitable mattoro which can result In obnoxious precipitations.
b. Floating matter, such as debris, floating residues, oil or other
unaightly mrttero.
c. Produce obnoxious color, odor, toste or turbidity
d. Harmful, poisonous or has adverse biological reaction to human, animal
and vegetation.
a Can causo growth of unpleasant aquatic blo-matters.
No.     Constituent             Class I      Class II    Class III    Class IV        Claos  V
Ambient water tempersture changoo from man-made cousoo should b
limited to:
1.      Water temperature           Average maximum temperature riso In summer period C 1
dogrees C                  Average maximum temperature drop in winter period < 2
2.      pH                     6.6 - 8.6       6 - 8.5    6. - 8.6    6.6 - 8.5        8 - 9
8.      Sulphate (S04) <          260           260          260          260           260
4.      Chlorides (CI) <          260           260          260          260           260
5.      Soluble iron <            0.8           0.8          0.6          0.6           1.0
6.      Total manganeso C         0.1           0.1          0.1          0.6           1.0
7.      Total copper <            0.01          1.0          1.0          1.0           1.0
(fish 0.01)  (fish 0.01)
8.      total zinc <              0.06          1.0          1.0          2.0           2.0
(fish 0.1)   (fish 0.1)
9.      Nitrate (as N) C           10           10            20           20           26
10.     Nitrite (as N) <          0.06          0.1         0.16          1.0           1.0
1t.     Free ammonia              0.02         0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02
12.     KJeldahl                  0.6           0.6          1.0          2.0           2.0
i8.     Total phosphorus          0.02      0.1 (lake,   0.1 (lake,       0.2           0.2
(as P) <                           res. 0.026)  ree. 0.06)
14.    Pirmanganato Index <        2             4            6            8            10
16.     Dissolved oxygen >      90X set         6             6            8             2
16.     COo                       16           15            15           20           26
17.     B006<                      8             8            4            6            10
18.     Fluoride (as F) <         1.0           1.0          1.0          1.6           1.6
19.     Selenium (quad) <         0.01         0.01         0.01          0.02         0.02
20.     Total arsenic <           0.05         0.05         0.05          0.1           0.1
21.     Total mercury <         0.00006      0.00006       0.0001        0.0001       0.0001
22.     Total cadmium <          0.001         0.006        0.006        0.006         0.01
28.     Chromium (hex) <          0.01         0.06         0.06          0.05          0.1
24.     Total load C              0.01         0.05         0.05          0.05          0.1
26.     Total cyanide <          0.005         0.06          0.2          0.2           0.2
(fish 0.006) (fish 0.005)
26.     Volatile phonol <        0.002         0.002        0.005         0.01         0.01
27.     Petroleum <               0.05         0.06         0.06          0.6           1.0
28.     Anionic Surfactant <      0.2           0.2          0.2          0.8           0.8
29.     Total coliform (No/L) <                             10000
80.     Benzene (ug/L) <         0.0025       0.0025       0.0026
Class Doscription
I       Mainly used for water source, national natural protection areas.
II      Mainly suitable ao source In first class protection area for community drinking water
supply, precious fish protected orea, spowning  ground for fish and shrimps.
III     Malnly suitable as source in second class protection area for community drinking water
supply, fishery protection area and public swimming area.
IV      Mainly sultoble for typical industrial water supply, and recreation where thero Is no
human bodily contact with the water.
V       Mainly suitable for agricultural water supply, and typical water areas for tourism.
Note:   Whore a water regime Is suitable for a number of potential uses, classification will be
according to Its highest usoe. Where thoro Is closs difference between season, seasonal
classification can be used.



- 52 -
Table 2
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Chinese Standards compared to Foreign Standards
(A) Industrial wastewater discharge standards (mg/L)
Parameter                        China         Shanghai        Canada*
mercury                          0.05          0.02            0.1
cadmium                          0.1           0.1             1.0
chromium                         0.5 (Cr )    0.5 (Cr )        5.0 (total)
arsenic                          0.5           0.5             1.0
lead                             1.0           1.0             2.0
pH                               6-9           6-9             5.5-9.5
floatables                       500           500             -
copper                           1.0           1.0             2.0
zinc                             5.0           5.0             4.0
BOD5                             60            30              30
COD                              100           50              -
phenol                           0.5           1.0             1.0
sulphides                        1.0           1.0             1.0
cyanide                          0.5           1.0             2.0
total phosphorus                 0.5           1.0             -
oil                              10            10              15
fluoride                         10            10              -
nitrobenzene                     5.0           5.0             -
benzene                          3.0           3.0
* effluent from oily waters treatment centre
(B) Air emission standards (mg/m3)
China                    U.S.       Canada
(1982)                  (1982)      (1982)
Parameter         Grade I  Grade II Grade III  Grade IV
total settleable              0.30                        0.075      0.080(AGM)
particulate                                               (AGZM)*
sulphur dioxide               0.15                        0.080      0.055(AAM)
(AAM)*
nitrogen oxides               0.10                        0.100(AAM) 0.200(24hr)
hydrocarbons                                              0.160      -
oxidants (as 03)                                          0.160(lhr) 0.165(lhr)
fluorides                                                 -          0.138(24hr)
Notess Chinese standards are based on daily averages
(Quality Criterion of Atmospheric Environment, GB3095-82)



- 53 -
Table 3
Page 1 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost L
(S million)
Project Cost              of which
Local  Foreign    Total       IDA       GEF
National Component
Environmental monitoring & tracking   0.65    1.35         2.20      0.54     1.09
oil spill contingency planning study       -    0.45       0.45         -     0.42
Chemically contaminated water treat-
ment study                               -    0.25       0.25         -     0.23
Subtotal                           0.65    2.05       2.70     0.54      1.74
Ports' Component
Disposal facilities:
Dalian                                1.15    2.05       3.20     0.78      1.60
Tianjin                               7.00    2.00       9.00     2.05      3.92
Shanghai                             16.30    8.50      24.80     5.20    10.08
Ningbo                                4.80    1.70       6.50      1.83     3.55
Guangzhou                             5.36    3.20       8.56     2.08      4.17
Xiamen                                3.52    1.61       5.13      1.37     2.68
Technical assistance to Xiamen
Port Authority                           -    0.03       0.03         -     0.03
Subtotal                          38.13   19.09      57.22    13.31    26.03
Base cost                         38.78   21.14      59.92    13.85    27.77
Physical contingencies                  1.48    0.86       2.34      0.55     1.07
Price contingencies                     1.54    1.00       2.54      0.60     1.16
Total cost                        41.80   23.00      64.80    15.00    30.00
/a  In January 1992 prices.  The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- 54 -
Table 3
Page 2 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detalled Cost Estimates for the Port of Dalian
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civll works    equip.    equlp.
----------- $ million ---------
Build two 5,000 ton oily water
receiving/holding tanks and
chemically contaminated water
treatment facilities; new
sludge handling facillity;
refurbLih existing oily water
settlLng basins                      0.650      0.380        0.150       0.120
Replace oily water receiving/
holding tanks at Crude Oil
Terminal (1-4,000 ton)               0.300      0.200        0.100
Replacement of oily water
equipment                            0.650           -           -       0.650
New sludge handling facility
(Crude Oil Terminal)                 0.700          -            -       0.700
Purchase oil containment
boom                                 0.530           -       0.300       0.230
Connections and piping for
sanitary sewage                      0.040      0.020            -       0.020
Laboratory                             0.330           -           -       0.330
Base cost                         3.200      0.600        0.550       2.050
Contingencies                          0.300
Total cost                        3.500



- 55 -
Table 3
Page 3 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Tianjin
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civil works    equip.    equip.
---------- $ million ---------
Furchase new oily waters
treatment barge (500 tons
cap.)                                2.000     -               2.000    -
Refurbish existing m oil waters
treatment barge (30 t/hr)            0.480     -               1.480    -
Purchase oil containment boom          0.500      -              0.500    -
Expand East Terminal sewage
treatment plant                      3.900     2.000           0.690    1.210
Purchase new garbage barge             1.100      -              1.100    -
Purchase 2 new garbage trucks          0.350      -              -        0.350
Laborato;y equipment                   0.670      0.230          -         0.440
Base cost                          9.000     2.230           4.770    2.000
Contingencies                          0.700
Total cost                        9.700



- 56 -
Table 3
Page 4 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Shanghai
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civil works    equip.    equip.
----$------ $ million ---------
New land-based oily and
chemically contaminated
water treatment facility
(300,000 tons/yr.)                  16.900      9.400        3.000       4.500
Purchase oil containment
boom
0.450          -            -       0.450
Garbage treatment facilities           6.690       1.800       2.100       2.790
Laboratory equipment                   0.760           -           -       0.760
Base cost                        24.800     11.200        5.100       8.500
Contingencies                          2.000
Total cost                       26.800



- 57 -
Table 3
Page 5 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Ningbo
Total    Domestic      Domestic   Foreign
Item                                            civil works    equip.    equip.
--$-------- S million ---------
Build new land-based treatment
facility at Beilun                    1.600      0.600          0.360      0.640
Refurbish existing oily waters
treatment barge (60 t/hr)             0.100           -         0.100          -
Purchase new oily waters
treatment barge (300 t/hr)            2.300           _         2.300          -
Purchase oil containment
boom                                  0.430           -         0.430          -
Beilun Iron Ore waste water
and sewage treatment facility         0.430      0.110          0.320          -
Connections and piping for sewage
at Zhenhai                            0.120      0.010          0.110          -
Purchase garbage barges                 0.400           -         0.400          -
Purchase new garbage trucks and
build new incinerator                 0.630      0.060               -     0.570
Laboratory equipment                    0.490           -              -     0.490
Base cost                          6.500      0.780          4.020      1.700
Contingencies                           0.520
Total cost                         7.020



- 58 -
Table 3
Page 6 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Guangzhou
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civil works    equip.    equip.
-----------   million ---------
Purchase oil containment
boom                                   1.330         -        1.000      0.330
Purchase new sewage collection
barge                                  0.750         -        0.750          -
Build secondary sewage, oil and
chemically contaminated water
treatment facilities                   5.590     2.540        0.820      2.230
Build new garbage incinerator            0.350     0.200        0.050      0.100
Laboratory equipment                     0.540         -             -      0540
Base cost                           8.560     2.740        2.620      3.200
Contingencies                            0.720
Total cost                          9.280



- 59 -
Table 3
Page 7 of 7
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for the Port of Xiamen
Total    Domestic     Domestic   Foreign
Item                                           civil works    equip.    equip.
$--------- S million ---------
Purchase new oily waters treatment
barge                                2.000        0.200      1.800            -
Purchase oil containment
boom                                 0.260            -          -       0.260
Build secondary sewage treatment
plant                                1.250        0.420      0.380       0.450
Purchase new garbage barge             0.190            -      0.190            -
Build new garbage incinerator          0.500        0.200          -        0.300
Environmental monitoring station       0.930        0.330          -        0.600
Base cost                         5.130       1.150       2.370       1.610
Contingencies                          0.350
Total cost                        5.480



- 60 -
Table 4
CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Estimated Ship Waste Quantities for 1990
Number
Ship       Of                               Sowa     s         Garb gn Total
Port          Typ       Ships     T      r       Tons                      T                    Tons
Dalian       o.0.       4,400    22,200    28,888    89,980    68,578    2,797    18,648       94,927     106,689
Coastal   6,480    82,800    84,000    72,676    68,068    2,907    19,880    107,882        119,448
Total    10,900    54,600    67,388   142,605   129,641    6,704   38,028    202,809         225,037
Tianjin     O..        2,880    11,900    12,626    87,486    84,077    1,499       9,996     60,884      56,600
Coastal    8,210    16,600    16,421    85,100   819,909    1,404      9,s80      52,104      57,690
Total      5,600    27,600    28,947    72,68      656,986    2,908    19,856    102,988     114,290
Shanghai    OC.        6,700    28,600    80,000    89,776    81,614    8,691    28,940    121,868       136,564
Coastal   19,700    98,600   108,684   221,625   201,477    8,8s6    69,100    828,990       884,261
Total     25,400   127,000   188,684   811,400   288,091   12,456    88,040    450,856       499,815
Ningbo       O.0.         486      2,826     2,447     7,824     6,658      298      1,958      9,942      11,058
Coastal      985     4,676     4,921    10,619      9,68s      421     2,805      16,616      17,289
Total       1,40     7,000     7,48    17,848    16,220        714     4,768      26,566      28,347
Xiamen       O.0.       1,846      6,725     7,079    21,184    19,258      847      6,649     28,766      81,986
Coastal    7,056    86,276    87,132    79,869    72,168    8,176    21,165   117,819        130,450
Total      8,400    42,000    44,211   100,663    91,411    4,022    26,814    14,5756    162,436
Guangzhou    o.0.       2,200    11,000    11,679    84,650    81,500    1,886       9,240     47,088      52,319
Coastal    8,S00    42,600    44,787    95,626    86,932    8,826    25,600    141,960       157,169
Total     10.700    68,600    56,316   130,276   118.432    5.211    84.740    188.986    209,488
Total                82,300   811,600   827.895   776.260   704.782   81.010   206,736  1.117.770   1.239.413
Note 1: Numbers of ships were estimated by dividing the total throughput by the average ship size.
Note 2:  Oily waste wolght: 950 kg/Me.
Note 3:  Sewage:  60 liters/day/person.  Crew:  36 ocean going, 26 coastal.  Average collection period:  9
days. Unit weight: 1.1 tons/U'.
Note 4:   ar;bge:  2 kg/person/day.  Ship time In port as for Note 2 above.  Unit weight of garbage:  150
kg/ .
Nomenclature: O.0. = ocean going; Coastal = domestic shipping.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Dalian Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - WIthout Project
Y million
Updated                         Forecast
For year ending December 31,             1989      1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Operating Revenues                      408.4     512.0    547.4    588.2    629.4   673.5    720.6
Operating Expenses                      178.1      234.5    260.7    287.0    315.7   347.3    382.0
Net Operating Income                    230.3     277.5    286.7    301.2    313.7   326.2    338.6
Interest Expense                          2.1      21.4      20.0     20.0     20.0    20.0      20.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)         20.8       35.5     20.0     20.0     20.0    20.0      20.0
Net Income Before taxes                 207.4     220.6    246.7    261.2    273.7   286.2    298.6
Taxes and payments to state              79.7      83.1      80.0     80.0     80.0    80.0      80.0
Net Income after Taxes                  127.7     137.5    166.7    181.2    193.7  206.2    218.6
Add. Depreciation                        30.0       35.8     38.0     38.0     38.0    38.0      38.0
Internal generation of funds            157.7     173.3    204.7    219.2    155.7   168.2    256.6
State contribution                        -        85.8       -        -        -        -        -
Borrowings                               58.7     146.0    100.0    100.0       -        -        -
Sources of Funds                        216.4     405.1    304.7    319.2    155.7   168.2    256.6
Application of Funds                    200.0      400.0    300.0    310.0    140.0   145.0    225.0
Net Funds Flow                           16.4        5.1      4.7      9.2     15.7    23.2      31.6
Add:  Opening Cash Position              69.1      85.5      90.6     95.3    114.5   140.2    178.4
0
Cash Position Year End                   85.5      90.6      95.3    114.5    140.2  178.4    235.0
r'3



Dalian Port - Proiect Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total     1992    1993    1994    199511
Proiect Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                   20.0        1.3     6.7      9.4     2.6
Less:  External financing                            14.0        0.9     4.7      6.6     1.8
Port's contribution                                   6.0       0.4       2.0     2.8     0.8
Funds Flow
operating and maintenance expense                                                         2.0
Depreciation                                                                              2.0
4.0
Operating revenues2/                                                                      4.0
Project-facilities internal cash generation           2.0         -       -        -      2.0
Less:  Contribution towards project financing         6.0       0.4      2.0      2.8     0.8
Interest expense3/                            0.2         -        -       -      0.2
6.2       0.4      2.0     2.8      1.0
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                    (4.2)      (0.4)   (2.0)   (2.8)    1.0
Net funds flow from regular port operations          79.7       9.2    15.7    23.2    31.6
Consolidated surDlus/(deficit)                       75.5       8.8    13.7    20.4    32.6
0 
0
I/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest cn relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Tianiin Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Project
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
As at December 31,                        1989        1990        1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
Operating Revenues                       404.7       378.3       396.1      414.0       432.6       452.1       472.5
Operating Expenses                       191.8       200.8       213.1      226.8       238.1       250.0       262.5
Net Operating Income                     212.9       177.5       183.0      187.2       194.5       202.1       210.0
Interest Expense                           2.8         7.7        40.0       40.0        40.0        40.0        40.0
Nonoperating items--Net Dr/Cr)             8.9         8.6         5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0         5.0
Net income before taxes                  201.2       161.2       138.0      142.0       149.5       157.1       175.0
Taxes and payments to state               14.2        13.3        20.0       20.0        20.0        20.0        20.0
Net income after taxes                   187.0       147.9       118.0      122.0       129.5       137.1       155.0
Add. depreciation                         30.3        35.5        35.5        35.5       40.0        40.0        40.0
Internatal generation of funds           217.3       183.4      153.5       157.5       169.5       177.1       195.0
State contribution                        78.6       268.6         -          -           -           -           -
Borrowings                               112.3       223.4      160.0       160.0         -           -           -
Sources of funds                         408.2       675.4      313.5       317.5       169.5       177.1       195.0
Applications of funds                    416.7       666.7       300.0      300.0       150.0       150.0       150.0
Net funds flow                            (8.5)        8.7        13.5       17.5        19.5        27.1        45.0
Add:  Opening Cash Position              103.0        94.5       103.2      116.7       133.2       152.7       179.8
Cash Position Year End                    94.5       103.2       116.7      133.2       152.7       179.8       224.8
0



Tianjin Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total      1992        1993       1994    19951/
Project Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                  50.9       3.4        16.8       23.9     6.8
Less:  External financing                           35.7       2.4        11.7       16.8      4.8
Port's contribution                                 15.2       1.0         5.1        7.1     2.0
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                             5.1
Depreciation                                                                                  5.1
10.2
Operating revenues2/                                                                         10.2
Project-related internal cash generation             5.1        -           -          -      5.1
Less:  Contribution towards project financing    15.2          1.0         5.1        7.1     2.0
Interest expense3/                           0.6         -           -         -       0.6
(15.8)     (1.0)       (5.1)      (7.1)    2.6
Project-related Surplus/(deficit)                  (10.7)     (1.0)       (5.1)      (7.1)    2.5
Net funds flow from regular port operations        109.1      17.5        19.5       27.1    45.0
Consolidated surplus/deficit                        98.4      16.5        14.4       20.0    47.5            0
0%
1/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.                                                        r
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Project
Y million
Updated                                Forecast
For year ending December 31,             1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Operating Revenues                      903.9    1,003.5    1,070.7    1,142.1    1,218.3        1,300.0    1,386.7
Operating Expenses                      517.7       594.4      638.7       685.5       734.4       785.8       840.8
Net Operating Income                    386.2       409.1      432.0       456.6       483.9       514.2       545.9
Interest Expense                          -           -          8.0         9.0        10.0        13.0        16.0         1
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)         59.2        65.2        70.0       70.0        70.0        70.0        70.0         O
Net Income Before Taxes                 327.0       343.9      354.0       377.6       403.9       431.2       459.9
Taxes and payments to state             104.0       110.0      112.0       115.0       120.0       129.0       136.0
Net Income after Taxes                  223.0       233.9      242.0       262.6       283.9       302.2       323.9
Add. Depreciation                         31.8       50.7        58.0       60.0        60.0         60.0       60.0
Internal generation of funds            254.8       284.6      300.0       322.6      343.9        362.2       323.9
State contribution                        -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Borrowings                               96.6       324.0        -           -           -           -           -
Sources of Funds                        351.4       608.0      300.0       322.6      343.9        362.2       383.9
Applications of Funds                   358.0       600.0      250.0       260.0       270.0       280.0       300.0
Net Funds Flow                            (6.6)      18.6       50.0        62.6        73.9        82.2        83.9
Add:  Opening Cash Position             150.4       143.8      152.4       202.4       265.0       338.9       421.1       mQ|a
Cash Position Year End                  143.8       152.4      202.4       265.0      338.9        421.1       505.0
0



Shanghai Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Proiect Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                      131.6    8.9    43.6    61.5    17.6
Less:  External financing                                92.4    6.3    30.6    43.2    12.3
Port's contribution                                      39.2    2.6    13.0    18.3       5.3
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                         13.2
Depreciation                                                                              13.2
26.4
Operating revenues2/                                                                      26.4                    a
Project-facilities internal cash generation              13.2     -        -        -     13.2
Less:  Contribution towards project financing            39.2    2.6    13.0    18.3       5.3
Interest expense3/                                2.9    2.6      0.4      1.0      1.5
42.1    5.2    13.4    19.3       6.8
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                       (28.9)  (5.2)  (13.4)  (19.3)    6.4
Net funds flow from regular port operation              302.6   62.6    73.9    82.2    83.9
Consolidated Surplus/(deficit)                          273.7   57.4    60.5    62.9    90.3
-4
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
inlcuded. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Ningbo Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Project
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
For year-ending December 31              1989        1990       1991        1992       1993         1994        1995
Operating Revenues                      111.5       149.1      169.4       191.7      216.3        243.3       274.9
Operating Expenses                       74.3       102.2      114.8       127.5      140.3        154.5       170.0
Net Operating Income                     37.2        46.9       54.6        64.2        76.0        88.8       104.9
Interest Expense                          -           -          5.0         6.0         7.0         7.0         6.0       1
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)          3.8         7.9        8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0
Net Income Before Taxes                  33.4        39.0       41.6        50.2       61.0         73.8        90.9
Taxes and payments to state              10.5        11.9       13.6        16.0        19.0        22.0        26.0
Net Income after Taxes                   22.9        27.1       28.0        34.2        42.0        51.8        64.9
Add. Depreciation                        17.0        24.4       25.0        25.0        30.0        30.0        30.0
Internal generation of funds             39.9        51.5       53.0        59.2       72.0         81.8        94.9
State contribution                       46.5        87.8       37.0        15.0         -           -           -
Borrowings                               74.8        86.7       26.0        33.0         -           -           -
Sources of Funds                        161.2       225.5      116.0       107.2       72.0         81.8        94.9
Applications of Funds                   137.1       286.4      110.0       100.0        50.0        50.0        55.0
Net Funis Flow                           24.1       (60.9)       6.0         7.2       22.0         31.8        39.9
Add:  Opening Cash Position             111.7       135.8       74.9        80.9        87.9       109.9       140.7   0|
OQ o
Cash Position Year End                  135.8        74.9       80.9        87.9      109.9        140.7       180.6      X
0



Ninlbo Port - Prolect Facilities - Financink Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Project
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    199511
Pro1ect Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                     44.4    2.9    14.6    20.9       6.0
Less: External financing                               31.2    2.1    10.2    14.7       4.2
Port's contribution                                    13.2    0.8      4.4      6.2     1.8
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                        4.4
Depreciation                                                                            .4.4
8.8
Operating revenues2/                                                                     8.8
Project facilities-internal cash generation             4.4      -       -        -      4.4
Less:  Contribution towards project financing          13.2    0.8      4.4      6.2     1.8
Interest expense3/                               0.5     -        -       -       0.5
13.7    0.8     4.4      6.2     2.3
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                       (9.3)  (0.8)   (4.4)   (6.2)    2.1
Net funds flow from regular port operation            100.9    7.2    22.0    31.8    39.9
Consolidated Surplus/(deficit)                         91.6    6.4    17.6    25.6    42.0
0
Sb P
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Guangzhou Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Project
Y million
Updated                        Forecast
For year ending December 31,            1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
Operating Revenues                     365.3    340.9    380.6   425.7    478.6    536.0   600.3
Operating Expenses                     193.1    193.1    218.1   248.2    286.5    329.5   378.9
Net Operating Income                   172.2    147.8    162.5   177.5    192.1    206.5   221.4
Interest Expense                         -         -       10.7    16.0      20.0      20.0    20.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)        21.4      27.0     12.3    20.0      35.0      35.0    35.0                1
Net Income Before Taxes                150.8    120.8    139.5   141.5    137.1    151.5   166.4                   M
Taxes and payments to state             13.2      12.0     24.0    27.0      60.0      60.0    60.0
Net Income after Taxes                 137.6    108.8    115.1   114.5       77.1      91.5   106.4
Add. Depreciation                       27.3      28.2     30.0    30.0      30.0      30.0    30.0
Internatal generation of funds         164.9    137.0    145.1   144.5    107.1    121.5   136.4
State contribution                       -         -        -        -        -         -       -
Borrowings                              41.1      95.9    150.0   105.0       -         -       -
Sources of Funds                       206.0    232.9    295.1   249.5    107.1    121.5   13G.4
Applications of funds                  190.0    235.7    289.5   230.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Net Funds Flow                          16.0      (2.8)     5.6    16.5       7.1      21.5    36.4
Add:  Opening Cash Position             56.0      72.0     69.2    69.2      85.7      92.8   114.3
Cash Position Year End                  72.0      69.2     74.8    85.7      92.8    114.3   140.7
0a
o s



Guangzhou Port - Project Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Project Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                      53.6    3.6    17.9    24.9       7.2
Less:  External financing                               37.6    2.5    12.6    17.4       5.1
Port's contribution                                     16.0    1.1      5.3      7.5     2.1
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                         5.4
Depreciation                                                                              5.4
10.8
Operating revenues2/                                                                     10.8
Project facilities-internal cash generation              5.4      -       -        -      5.4
Lesss  Contribution towards project financing           16.0    1.1      5.3      7.5     2.1
Interest expense3l                                0.6     -        -       -       0.6
16.6    1.1     5.3      7.5     2.7
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                       (11.2)  (1.1)   (5.3)   (7.5)    2.7
Net funds flow from regular port operations             81.5   16.5      7.1    21.5    36.4
0
Consolidated surplus/(deficit)                          70.3   15.4      1.8    14.0    39.1
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Xiamen Port
Income and Funds Flow Statement - Without Proiect
Y million
Updated                                 Forecast
For year ending December 31,             1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Operating Revenues                       50.1        55.7       66.6        79.6        95.2       113.8       136.6
Operating Expenses                       30.6        32.8       39.1        46.1        54.5        64.3        75.9
Net Operating Income                     19.5        22.9       27.5        33.5        40.7        49.5        60.7
Interest Expense                          -           -          5.6         6.5         7.0         7.0         7.0
Non-Operating items--Net Dr/(Cr)          1.1         0.6         0.5        0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5
Net Income Before taxes                  18.4        22.3       26.4        26.5       33.2         42.0        53.2
Taxes and payments to state               4.6         5.4        6.2         7.9         9.6        11.6        14.3
Net Income after Taxes                   13.8        16.9       20.2        18.6       23.6         30.4        38.9
Add. Depreciation                         2.4         2.7         3.0        4.0         5.0         6.0         6.0
Internal generation of funds             16.2        19.6       23.2        22.6       28.6         36.4        44.9
State contribution                       11.9        16.8       18.0         8.0       30.0         30.0        30.0
Borrowings                                7.7        22.3       40.0        40.0       10.0          -           -
Sources of Funds                         35.8        58.7       81.2        70.6       68.6         66.4        74.9
Applications of Funds                    20.0        33.2       60.0        50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0
Net Funds Flow                           15.8        25.5       21.2        20.6       18.6         16.4        24.9   m X
Add:  Opening Cash Position              22.2        38.0       63.5        84.7      115.3        133.9       150.3   o o
Cash Position Year End                   38.0        63.5       84.7       115.3      133.9        150.3       175.2
.



Xiamen Port - Proiect Facilities - Financing Plan (1992-1995)
and Funds Flow - With Proiect
Y million
Forecast
Total   1992    1993    1994    19951/
Project Facilities
Financing Plan
Capital Investment                                      34.0    2.3    11.4    15.8      4.5
Less:  External financing                               23.9    1.6     8.0    11.1      3.2
Port's contribution                                    10.1    0.7      3.4      4.7     1.3
Funds Flow
Operating and maintenance expense                                                        3.4
Depreciation                                                                             3.4
6.8                     a
Operating revenues2/                                                                     6.8
Project facilities - internal cash generation           4.7      -        -       -      4.7
Less:  Contribution towards project financing          10.1    0.7      3.4      4.7     1.3
Interest expense3/                               0.4     -        -       -       0.4
10.5    0.7     3.4      4.7     1.7
Project-related surplus/(deficit)                       (5.8)  (0.7)   (3.4)   (4.7)    3.0
Net funds flow from regular port operation             80.5   20.6    18.6    16.4    24.9
Consolidated Surplusl(deficit)                          74.7   19.9    15.2    11.7    27.9
o 0
l/The project facilities become operational beginning 1995.
2/Notional amount equivalent to total operating expenses which will be targeted for collection through
cost-recovery-based tariff structure and levels.
3/Annual interest on relent IDA Credit during construction is not significant enough in amount to be
included. Grace period will end in 1996.



CHINA
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT
Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994       1995
z          X           2           z          2
1. Dalian Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                    6.9        7.5         7.0         7.0         7.0
Operating expenses - annual increases                   11.1       10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                        1.7        1.8         1.8         1.8         1.8
Annual average interest rate2                            5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0         5.0
Project Facilities
eqg
Operating and maintenance costs as a                                                                          m t
percentage of investment                                                                              10.0
o fH
Annual depreciation rate                                                                              10.0
-4



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
z       z     ~    ~ z          z           z
2. Tianiin Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                    4.7         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.5
Operating expenses - annual increases                    6.1         6.4         5.0         5.0         5.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.7         1.7
Annual average interest rate2                             3.6        3.7         3.7         3.7         3.7
Project Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                10.0     |
o H



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
2          Z           X          Z           2
3. Shanghai Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                   6.7         6.7        6.7         6.7         6.7
Operating expenses - annual increases                   7.5         7.3         7.1        7.0         7.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                       2.0         2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0          Un
Annual average interest rate2                           3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Project Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                              10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                              10.0
IOQ c'
o tH
-4



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
4. Ningbo Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                    13.6       13.2        12.8        12.5        13.0
Operating expenses - annual expenses                    12.3        11.1        10.0        10.0        10.0          1
Annual average depreciation ratel                         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Annual average interest rate2                             3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Project Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                                10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                                10.0   
-PI
  t~~~~~ 



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
2          z           X          Z           2
5. Guangzhou Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                  11.6        11.8       12.4        12.0        12.0
Operating expenses - annual increases                  12.9        13.8       15.4        15.0        15.0
Annual average depreciation ratel                       1.7         1.8        1.9         2.0         2.0
Annual average interest rate2                           3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Project FacIlities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                             10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                              10.0
X F4
k.,'
I-4



Growth Rates Assumed in Financial Forecasts
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
z          z           Z          Z           Z
6. Xiamen Port
Existing Port Operations
Operating revenues - annual increases                  19.5        19.5       19.5        19.5        20.0
Operating expenses - annual increases                  19.2        17.9       18.0        18.0        18.0         1
Annual average depreciation ratel                       1.6         1.6        1.6         1.6         1.6         X
Annual average interest rate2                           6.4         5.6        5.2         5.1         5.0
Project Facilities
Operating and maintenance costs as a
percentage of investment                                                                             10.0
Annual depreciation rate                                                                              10.0
O Q
o X-.
tlh



1 Depreciation: Because of the varying mix of the fixed assets and related depreciation from port to port,
and within the same port from year to year, the rates do not follow any fixed pattern from
year to year.
2 Interest:      Similarly, because of the varying mix of the long-term debt and related interest from port to
port, and within the same port from year to year, the rates do not follow any fixed pattern
from year to year.
DOQ
0 PI
-4(D
-'
H
o H
th



~~~~~~~~~~C    \           %\R U S S I A                   ;    l-
KAZAKHSTAN
IHEILOIN
-5                  /              MONGOUA                  -                                n
KYRGH-YZSTAN                                                     ~JLN-'
LIA~~~~~~~~~*A
1MXISlA}         -            X1NJ/ANG                                                                                                                    -  UAONING >AN
__ | | .                                                                                 ,zI
SH~ANXVSANO 
-.,ZN.       f                0                                SENAN
HNGHAt
.=- -~ ~-Th            ~         \ e 9 tSICHL'AN                               HJ
C  ^^NAX                                                                 HUNA           5          
SHIP WASTE DISPOSAL PROJECT                                            GU
z    sv>crs                          <        e ) S        ,                 E           ovEN /TAIW;V                    OCEA N
s  N                                  ?k    1                                    N
=N   ,n o  io2UOes   24 c5.'e Am~
t _Izn                          310 m 7 9 t tr                                  _ XPHIPP



