Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2391 CHA
GET GRANT NUMBER TF28613 CHA
(Ship Waste Disposal Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Global Environement Trust Fund
and
DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY
GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY
NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY
SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY
TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY
XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY
Dated July 2, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2391 CHA
GET GRANT NUMBER TF28613 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of the Global Environment Trust Fund (the Trustee) and DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY (DPA), 
GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY (GPA), NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY (NPA), SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY 
(SPA), TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY (TPA), and XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY (XPA) (the Port 
Authorities).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Page  2
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Port 
Authorities agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each of the Port Authorities, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under 
the Development Credit
Agreement will be relent to the Port Authorities on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(C)
by the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GET Grant 
Agreement) of even date herewith between People's Republic of China (the Recipient) 
and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund 
(the Trustee), the Trustee has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
22,000,000) (the GET Grant) on the terms and conditions set forth in the GET Grant 
Agreement;
(D)
by grant agreements to be entered into between the Recipient and each of 
the Port Authorities, a part of the proceeds of the GET Grant will be made available 
to the Port Authorities on the terms and conditions set forth in said Grant 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Port Authorities, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Trustee entering into 
the GET Grant Agreement with the Recipient, have agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the GET Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth an the following additional term has the following meaning:
(a)
"Grant Agreement" and "Grant Agreements" means singularly a grant 
agreement and collectively the grant agreements to be entered into between the 
Recipient and each of the Port Authorities, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of the GET 
Grant Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Grant Agreement(s).
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Port Authorities declares its commitment to the 
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Trustee and the Port Authorities shall otherwise 
agree, each of the Port Authorities shall carry out its part of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the GET Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.03. Each of the Port Authorities shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreements, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Port Authorities shall duly perform all its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Grant Agreement. Except 
as the Association shall otherwise
agree, none of the Port Authorities shall take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Port Authorities shall, at the request of the 
Association and the Trustee, exchange views with the Association and the Trustee with 
regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the GET Grant.
(b)
Each of the Port Authorities shall promptly inform the Association and 
the Trustee of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit 
and the GET Grant, or the performance by such Port Authority of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
Each of the Port Authorities
Section 3.01. Each of the Port Authorities shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by qualified 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each of the Port Authorities shall at all times operate and 
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. Each of the Port Authorities shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association and the 
Trustee for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of the Port Authorities shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
Each of the Port Authorities shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
Page  4
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association and the 
Trustee;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Trustee as soon as available, 
but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association and the 
Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Trustee such other information 
concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, 
as the Association and the Trustee shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the GET Grant Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Trustee and of the Port Authorities thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the GET 
Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the GET Grant Agreement terminates 
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Trustee shall promptly notify the Port Authorities of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  5
197688 (TRT)
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For DPA:
Dalian Port Authority
1 Gangwan Street
Zhongshan District
Dalian
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3155
86246 DHAB CN
 
For GPA:
Guangzhou Port Authority
39 Gang Qian Lu
Port of Huangpu
Guangzhou
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
5300 Guangzhou
For NPA:
Ningbo Port Authority
Ningbo, Zhejiang
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
333
37046 NBP CN
Ningbo
For SPA:
Shanghai Port Authority
13 Zhongshan Road (E.1)
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3966
33023 SHACO CN
 
For TPA:
Tianjin Port Authority
Xingang
Page  6
Tanggu, Tianjin
People's Republic of China
Telex:
23107 PORT CN
For XPA:
Xiamen Port Authority
Harbor Building
Dongdu Road
Xiamen
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3099
93018 PENXN CN
Xiamen
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any of the 
Port Authorities may be taken or executed by Director of such Port Authority or such 
other person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and each of the 
Port Authorities shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 6.04. As long as the Trustee has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Port Authorities and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Port Authorities to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Trustee shall 
be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Port Authorities to consult with, and to furnish 
information to, the Trustee shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
satisfied by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the GET Grant 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Trustee.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Global
   Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  7
DALIAN PORT AUTHORITY
GUANGZHOU PORT AUTHORITY
NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY
SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY
TIANJIN PORT AUTHORITY
XIAMEN PORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program for Part B of the Project
1.
Each of the Port Authorities shall cooperate with the Borrower for the 
establishment, by December 31, 1992, of a coordinating team with functions and 
responsibilities and comprising members from such departments and agencies of the 
Borrower and the relevant Port Authority as agreed by the Association and the Trustee, 
for the purpose of monitoring activities under the Project.
2.
Each of the Port Authorities shall: (a) by December 31, 1992, prepare and 
furnish to the Association and the Trustee, for their review and comments, a garbage 
and solid waste management plan; and (b) by December 31, 1994, adopt and implement 
such plan taking into account the comments of the Association and the Trustee.
3.
Each of the Port Authorities shall, by July 31, 1994, adopt an oil  spillage 
contingency plan developed in accordance with terms of reference agreed by the 
Association and the Trustee.
4.
Each of the Port Authorities shall assist the Borrower in the preparation and 
implementation of the costing and tariff system for waste reception and disposal 
services referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
5.
XPA shall establish, by June 30, 1993, an Environmental Protection Bureau, with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers and functions and powers acceptable to the 
Association and the Trustee,
to supervise and operate the ships' waste disposal facilities to be provided under the 
Project.
6.
GPA shall enter into arrangements with BOMTA, satisfactory to the Association 
and the Trustee, for the handling of the oily ballast and bilge waters for all port 
users at BOMTA facility at Xin Zhao.
