Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2391 CHA
(Ship Waste Disposal Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 2, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2391 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Trustee (Trustee) of the Global Environment 
Trust Fund (GET), has agreed to make a grant (the GET Grant), to the Borrower (as such 
the Recipient) in an amount equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 22,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the GET Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable and 
deemed expedient by the Association, that the proceeds of the GET Grant provided for 
in the GET Grant Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement;
(D)
 Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Part B of 
the Project will be carried out by the Port Authorities (as hereinafter defined) with 
the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to each of the Port 
Authorities a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Trustee and the Port Authorities.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BOMTA" means the Guangzhou Bureau of Maritime Transport Administration, 
an agency of the Borrower and any successor thereto;
(b)
"Charters" means each of the charters for DPA, GPA, NPA, SPA, TPA and 
XPA, and "Charter" means any of the charters;
(c)
"DPA" means Dalian Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on August 3, 1987;
(d)
"DPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
"GET Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books 
in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GET Grant is credited;
(f)
"GET Grant Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower/Recipient and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as a Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time;
(g)
"GPA" means Guangzhou Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on August 25, 
1988;
(h)
"GPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and GPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications and any successor 
thereto;
(j)
"NPA" means Ningbo Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on August 21, 
1988;
Page  3
(k)
"NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(l)
"Port Authorities" means DPA, GPA, NPA, SPA, TPA and XPA, and "Port 
Authority" means any of the Port Authorities;
(m)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as trustee of the Global 
Environment Trust Fund, and the
Port Authorities, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(n)
"SPA" means Shanghai Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on August 21, 
1988;
(o)
"SPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements referred to in 
paragraphs (d), (h), (k), (o), (s) and (u) of this Section, and "Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement" means any of those agreements;
(r)
"TPA" means Tianjin Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on March 29, 1986;
(s)
"TPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(t)
"XPA" means Xiamen Port Authority, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, issued on October 22, 
1987; and
(u)
"XPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and XPA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (f) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
Page  4
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2002 and ending June 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2012 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project,
through MOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Port 
Authorities to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of each 
Port Authority therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of 
the Port Authorities to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend six hundred and twenty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 620,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to DPA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and DPA, under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association including those specified in paragraph (g) of this Section.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend one million six hundred fifty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,650,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to GPA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GPA, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association including those specified in paragraph 
(g) of this Section.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend one million four hundred fifty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,450,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to NPA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NPA, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association including those specified in paragraph 
(g) of this Section.
(d)
The Borrower shall relend four million one hundred forty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,140,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to SPA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SPA, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association including those specified in paragraph 
(g) of this Section.
(e)
The Borrower shall relend one million six hundred thirty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,630,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to TPA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TPA, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association including those specified in paragraph 
(g) of this Section.
(f)
The Borrower shall relend one million ninety thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,090,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to XPA under a subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and XPA, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association including those specified in paragraph (g) of 
this Section.
(g)
Each of the Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid over a period of 15 years, 
including five years of grace, and accrue interest at a rate of 1.5% per annum. The 
commitment fee and foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Port Authorities. 
Page  6
(h)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) for Part B of the Project, 
shall be carried out by the Port Authorities pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Port Authorities shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the Port Authorities will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the Charters shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
respective Port Authority to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Port Authorities or 
for the suspension of its
operations. 
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GET Grant made to the Borrower 
for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled 
or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the GET 
Grant Agreement;
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the respective Port Authority; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement 
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
of the Port Authorities, and is legally binding upon each of the Port Authorities in 
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Port Authority and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and such Port Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and of the GET Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of       Amount of
                     the Credit     the GET Grant
                      Allocated       Allocated         % of
                     (Expressed      (Expressed     Expenditures
                       in SDR          in SDR          to be
     Category        Equivalent)     Equivalent)      Financed
(1)  Civil works     1,000,000          1,500,000     27%
(2)  Goods          10,000,000         20,000,000     100% of
                                                      foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory)
                                                      and 75% of
                                                      local expen-
                                                      ditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured
                                                      locally
(3)  Consultants'     --------            500,000     100%
     services and
     training
                   ___________        ___________
                    11,000,000         22,000,000
     TOTAL         ===========        ===========
2.
The proceeds of the GET Grant will, to the extent practicable and deemed 
expedient by the Association, be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of 
the Project before disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and the Port Authorities 
in reducing pollution of international and Chinese territorial waters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.
Provision and operation of a port-to-port ship waste tracking system between the 
Port Authorities.
2.
Preparation of an oil spill contingency plan for each of the Port Authorities.
 
3.
Undertaking a study to assess and develop a treatment system for contaminated 
water.
4.
Establishing and introducing a costing and tariff system for waste reception and 
disposal services.
5.
Provision of consultants' services and training in connection with or related to 
activities under the Project.
6.
Preparation of terms of reference for a study of the Yellow Sea marine 
ecosystem.
7.
Promoting coordination between the Port Authorities and various agencies and 
departments of the Borrower concerned with environmental monitoring.
Part B:
1.
Provision or development of waste reception and disposal or treatment facilities 
including supply of equipment and machinery to each of the Port Authorities to enable 
them to dispose of, in an environmentally sound manner, oil-contaminated waters, 
chemically-contaminated waters, sanitary sewage, garbage and solid wastes.
2.
Establishing or upgrading of environmental monitoring and enforcement 
capabilities of each of the Port Authorities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  11
1.
Items or groups of items of goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Except as provided in paragraph (3) hereof, civil works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified contractors 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part A hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ and 
cause the Port Authorities to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consulants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory 
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program for Part A of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall, in cooperation with each of the Port Authorities, establish, 
by December 31, 1992, a coordinating team with functions and responsibilities and 
comprising members from such
departments and agencies of the Borrower and the relevant Port Authority as agreed by 
the Association, for the purpose of monitoring activities under the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall by December 31, 1992, prepare, in consultation with the 
Page  12
Association, the terms of reference, including program design for a study of the 
Yellow Sea marine ecosystem under Part A.6 of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1993, undertake and complete a study, in 
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Association, to assess and develop 
a treatment system for
chemically contaminated water under Part A.3 of the Project; and (b) thereafter 
implement the recommendations made therein in consultation with the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Port Authorities: (a) prepare a 
costing and tariff system for waste reception and disposal services under Part A.4 of 
the Project, on the basis of terms of reference agreed with the Association; (b) by 
June 30, 1994, submit the same to the Association for their comments; and (c) by June 
30, 1995 introduce the said system in each of the Port Authorities taking into account 
the comments of the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$ 
3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the GET Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
GET Grant Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
GET Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be 
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of 
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or from the GET Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
Page  13
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement, or from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the GET Grant Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; and
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of the GET Grant 
allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special 
commitment entered into by the Association or the 
Trustee pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the GET Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association 
into said Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or 
refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
or the Trustee such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account or to the 
GET Grant Account, as the case may be.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or to the GET Grant Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
