Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF28613 CHA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
(Ship Waste Disposal Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated July 2, 1992
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank and Switzerland (the Participants) have 
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested 
and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes 
of, and in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
has requested assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the 
Project, and the Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance 
with the provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000) 
(the Credit);
WHEREAS (E) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Recipient and Part 
B of the Project will be carried out by the Port Authorities with the Recipient's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make available to the 
Port Authorities the proceeds of the GET Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c); 12.03, and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Recitals to this 
Agreement, and the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth; and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Dev-elopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as 
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agree-ments supplemental to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 22,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Article III (except 
Sections 3.02 and 3.04) and Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement and 
Schedules 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 thereto are incorporated in this Agreement with the 
following modifications in said Articles and Schedules 2, 3, 4 and 5 unless the 
context otherwise requires:
(i)
the term "Association" shall be read as "Trustee";
(ii)
the term "Borrower" shall be read as "Recipient";
(iii)
the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be read as "GET 
Grant" and "GET Grant Account"; and
(iv)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Development Credit 
Agreement".
(b)
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Account shall remain outstanding and unless the Recipient has been notified 
otherwise by the Trustee:
(i)
all actions taken, including approval given, by the Association 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of any of the Articles of, and 
Schedules to, the Development Credit Agreement enumerated in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be 
taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Association 
and the Trustee; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such Articles of 
the Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be 
deemed to be furnished to both the Association and the Trustee.
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall make a part of the proceeds of the GET 
Grant available to the Port Authorities on a grant basis under grant agreements to be 
entered into between the Recipient and each of the Port Authorities in accordance with 
the provisions hereof. Each of the said grant agreements shall be for an amount agreed 
by the Recipient and the Trustee and shall be based upon terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each of the Grant 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant, and except as the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Recipient and the Trustee hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) for Part B of the Project, 
shall be carried out by the Port Authorities pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Sections 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events set out in Section 5.01 
(a) to (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified namely, the events set out in Section 5.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Recipient's State Council has approved the GET Grant Agreement;
(b)
each of the Grant Agreements has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the respective Port Authority; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Page  5
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  Acting as Trustee of the
  Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
