Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17998
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
(Credit 2231-CE)
Juae 15, 1998
Education Sector
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS UNIT
Currency Unit = SLRupees (Rs)
Average Yearly US$1.00 Equivalent
1991          1992           1993           1994          1995           1996           1997
41.4          44.3           47.8           49.7          52.0           55.4           57.8
GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGA                    Assistant Government Agent
ARTEP                  Asia Regional Team for Employment Promotion
CAS            =       Country Assistance Strategy
CBSL                   Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CENWOR                 Center for Research on Women
CF             =       Credit Fund
CFS            =       Consumer Finance Survey
CMED           =       Credit & Micro-Enterprise Development
CRBs           =       Cooperative Rural Banks
DCS            =       Department of Census and Statistics
DSA                    Divisional Secretariat Area
DSD                    Divisional Secretariat Division
EDP                    Entrepreneurship Development Program
EPPU           =       Employment and Poverty Policy Unit
FSP            =       Food Stamp Program
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GND            =       Grama Niladari Division
GOSL           =       Government of Sri Lanka
GRO            =       Grassroots Organization
HRDF           =       Human Resource Development Fund
IDA                    International Development Association
IFAD                   International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO            =       International Labor Organization
IRDP           =       Integrated Rural Development Program
JSP                    Janasaviya Program
JTF            =       Janasaviya Trust Fund
KfW                    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederafbau
MIS            =       Management Information System
MOF            =       Ministry of Finance
MOH            =       Ministry of Health
MPCS           =       Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies
MPIPA          =       Ministry of Plan Implementation and Parliamentary Affairs
MPPI           =       Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation
MTRID          =       Ministry of Textile and Rural Industrial Development
MYAS                   Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports
NDTF           =       National Development Trust Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NF             =       Nutrition Fund
NGO/PO                 Non-Governmental Organization/Partner Organization
NNCC           =       National Nutrition Coordination Committee
NPD                    National Planning Department
NSB            =       National Savings Bank
NYSCO          =       National Youth Services Cooperatives
PA                     Public Affairs Division
PHRD                   Policy and Human Resource Development Grant
PMU                    Poverty Monitoring Unit
PNN                    Praja Naya Niymaka ("Loan Agents")
PPU            =       Provincial Planning Unit
PS                     Pradeshiya Sabha
QLFS                   Quarterly Labor Force Survey
RDA                    Recommended Daily Allowance
RDD            =       Regional Development Division
RDS            =       Rural Development Society
REDS           =       Rural Enterprise Development Service
RRDB           =       Regional Rural Development Banks
RWF            =       Rural Works Fund
SAL                    Structural Adjustment Lending
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SEEDS          =       Sarvodaya Economic Enterprise Development Service
SK                     Sahaya Kandayama (JSP "Support Team")
SM             =       Social Mobilization
TCCS           =       Thrift and Credit Cooperative Society
Trust          =       Janasaviya Trust Fund'National Development Trust Fund
UNDP           =       United National Development Program
UNICEF         =       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          =       United States Agency for International Development
WCNF                   Women and Child Nutrition Fund
WCND           =       Women and Child Nutrition Division
WERC           =       Women's Education and Research Center
Vice President         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director       Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Leader          Ralph Harbison
Team Leader            Jacob Bregman
The Implementation Completion Report is based on the supervision and ICR mission that took place from
September 1-22, 1997. The mission team was composed of Mmes/Messrs. Jacob Bregman (Team Leader, SASED)
and consultants Harsha Aturupane (Economist and Poverty Specialist), David Pyle (Senior Nutrition Specialist),
Henk Op Het Velt (Rural Works and Social Mobilization Specialist), Mallika Samaranayake (Participatory
Development Specialist, SACSL), Julitta Rasiah (Financial Analyst, SACSL), Nandini Gunewardena (Gender and
Social Mobilization Specialist) and Kamal Siblini (Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist). The report is also based
on data collected during the joint GOSL-KfW-IDA Mid-Terrn Project Review mission (May 1995). This ICR was
prepared by Jacob Bregman (Team Leader, LCSHD) and Harsha Aturupane (Economist and Social Poverty
Specialist) with inputs from Nandini Gunewardena (Gender and Social Mobilization Specialist) and David Pyle
(Senior Nutrition Specialist). Tables and graphics were compiled and edited by Kamal Siblini. The draft text was
proofread and formatted by Julie-Anne Graitge (SASED). Comments from the GOSL, KfW and UNDP (Colombo
Office) are included. Peer reviewers were Mmes. Soniya Carvalho (PRMPO) and Judith McGuire (LCSHD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ...................................................i
Project Objectives ...................................................                                              ii
Implementation Arrangements ..................................................                                        ii
Implementation Experience and Results ................................................... ii
Project Sustainability .................................................. vii
Future Operations ..................................................                                                vii
Key Lessons Learned .................................................. viii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .
B.  Project Rationale and Objectives                                                .3
C.         Achievement of Objectives and Major Factors Affecting Performance                              .6
D.  Project Sustainability .15
E. Bank Performance .16
F.  Borrower Performance                                                     .18
G. - Assessment of Outcome .19
H. Future Operations .20
1.  Key Lessons Learned .20
PART Ila - GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
A. Introduction .23
B.  Project Objectives and Components .23
C.    Problems Faced by the Project and Contributory Factors .26
D.  Strengths and Achievements .27
E.  Major Issues Encountered .28
F.  Lessons to be Learned .29
G. Conclusion .29
PART Ilb - CO-FINANCIERS CONTRIBUTION
A.        Credit Component .........................................................                                32
PART III - STATISTICAL AND PROJECT DATA TABLES
Table I   Summary of Assessments .........................................................                          34
Table 2   Related IDA  Loans/Credit .........................................................                       35
Table 3   Project Timetable .........................................................                               35
Table 4   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................................. 36
Table 5   Key Performance Indicators by Component .........................................................           41
Table 6   Studies Included in Project .........................................................                     43
Table 7.1 Project Costs .........................................................                                   46
Table 7.2 Project Financing .........................................................                               47
Table 8   Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................                       48
Table 9   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................                    50
Table  O  Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                        51



ANNEXES
Annex I  Aide Memoire .....................................................                                                                          52
Annex 2   Project Objectives ...................................................... 78
Annex 3   Monitoring and Evaluation .....................................................                                                            79
Annex 4           Targeting, Participation  and  Social Mobilization .....................................................    82
Annex 5   Gender Outcomes .....................................................                                                                      87
Annex  6          Institutional Development and the NGO  Partners .....................................................    91
Annex 7   Nutrition Interventions .....................................................                                                              93
Figure I   NTDF Organizational Structure .....................................................                                                       99
Figure 2   Project Funds and SOE Flow: IDA, GOSL and NDTF ............................................. 100
Map No. 27509



SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
(Credit 2231-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sri Lanka Poverty Alleviation project, for
which Credit No. 2231-CE in the amount of US$57.5 million equivalent was approved on April
3, 1991, became effective on September 26, 1991 and was closed on December 31, 1997, after a
one year extension in December 1996. The SAR IDA contribution was US$57.5 million.
However, in December 1996, IDA canceled approximately US$10 million (SDR6.5 million).
Cofinancing for the project's credit and micro-enterprise development component was provided
by KfW from Germany (US$10 million). The SAR estimate of the Government of Sri Lanka
contribution was US$17.5 million. Under the technical assistance component of the project, the
UNDP provided US$2.5 million for technical assistance to the Trust. Although this was not an
integrated part of the project (SAR, paras 5.45 and 6.4), the UJNDP grant disbursed about US$1
million during the project life. The project also benefited from a Japan PHRD Grant for studies
and technical assistance on Gender and Women Migration Issues. The final disbursement date
was April 21, 1998. There are still some outstanding disbursement problems related to the
advances made to the Special Account. Extemal audit reports for 1991-1996 were all
unqualified. The 1997 Audit Reports are still outstanding.
Government of Sri Lanka          US$17.5
KfW cofinancing                  US$10.0
IDA                              US$57.5
Total                            US$85.0
This ICR was prepared by Messrs. Jacob Bregman (LCSHD) and Harsha Aturupane (Economist
Consultant). Substantial contributions were made by Ms. Nandini Gunewardena (Gender and
Social Mobilization Consultant) and Mr. David Pyle (Senior Nutrition Consultant). Peer
reviewers were Mmes. Soniya Carvalho (PRMPO) and Judith McGuire (LCSHD). The GOSL
contribution to the ICR is included as part IIA and the KFW contribution as Part IIB and by
commenting on the draft Part I. Comments from UNDP (Colombo Office) and NGOs are
included in the main ICR text.
ICR preparation began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, conducted from
September 1- 22, 1997 and was completed in April 1998. The ICR is based on data in the project
files, records maintained by the project implementation unit in Sri Lanka, information collected in
the field by supervision teams, and beneficiary surveys conducted between December 1995 to
September 1997. A comprehensive NGO-Beneficiary Assessment, jointly supervised by GOSL
and IDA was completed from September 1997 to January 1998. This survey was executed by
external consultants from the University of Colombo.



SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
(Credit 2231-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Poverty Alleviation Project (Credit 2231-CE) evaluated in this report was prepared
by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the World Bank between October 1988 and April
1990. The project became effective on September 26, 1991 with IDA credit of US$57.5 million,
and was closed on December 31, 1997. In December 1996, IDA canceled approximately US$ 10
million (SDR6.5 million) of credit. As of June 10, 1998, the total disbursed amount of the IDA
credit was US$38,068,536 (SDR26,390,073) or 83% of the original credit amount. There are still
some outstanding disbursement problems related to the adivances made to the Special Account.
IDA has requested a refund of US$100,461 representing unused funds remaining in the Special
Account. The audit reports for 1997 are still outstanding. All audit reports for 1991-1996 were
unqualified. The project was the first of its kind in Sri Lanka, based on a production-oriented,
participatory poverty strategy in place of previous top-down, welfare-oriented poverty reduction
approaches. The project was consistent with the objectives of the Sri Lanka Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and the Government of Sri Lanka's own policy objectives for poverty reduction.
2.     The project was prepared and implemented during a period of economic and political
difficulties in Sri Lanka, which affected its performance and outcome. A civil war in the North
Eastem Province increased in intensity in 1987. The President of the country was assassinated
in 1993. In August 1994, the government in office changed after 17 years causing major changes
in policies and administration that affected project implementation. The escalating civil war led
to increased violence, including bomb attacks in Colombo, one of which damaged the offices of
the project implementation agency in 1997. Adverse political factors hampered economic
performance. From 1992-97 inflation was high, averaging 12% per year; the exchange rate
depreciated by 29% and the government budget deficit averaged 9% of GDP per year. Such
economic and political trends were likely to have had an adverse impact on the incidence, depth
and severity of poverty.' However, child malnutrition fell from 38% in 1987 to 33% in 1995, and
unemployment declined from 14% in 1985-90 to 10% in 1997. Project activities are likely to
have contributed to these improvements in malnutrition and unemployment.
Poverty estimates for overall Sri Lanka after 1990/91 are not yet available. However, there is evidence of worsening poverty in
some areas of the country in recent years; See Aturupane, Rodrigo and Perera, Poverty Among Female Headed Households, (1996);
Ministry of Plan Implementation, Poverty Monitoring Unit.



- II -
Project Objectives
3.    The major project objectives were to: i) increase income earning opportunities among the
poor; and ii) improve the malnutrition status of pregnant and nursing mothers, and children under
3 years of age (raised at project mid-term to 5 years of age). To achieve these goals, the project
included five sub-objectives: a) re-orient and expand existing institutional capacity to serve the
poor, and create additional capacity; b) develop credit and other services for promoting self-
employment and micro-enterprise development through group-based lending and entrepreneurial
development; c) expand productive wage employment for the poor through technically,
economically and socially viable rural works projects; d) develop programs for nutrition
interventions for malnourished children and pregnant and nursing mothers; and e) create policy
research and program formulation capacity within GOSL (Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation - MPPI) to take greater account of poverty and unemployment issues in
overall growth policies and public investment projects. In addition, the project aimed to
emphasize gender concerns by promoting female participation in project activities and benefits.
Implementation Arrangements
4.    Administration of the Funds (CF, HRDF, RWF, NF) was the responsibility of the
Janasaviya Trust Fund (JTF), renamed in 1995 the National Development Trust Fund (NDTF).
The JTF (NDTF) was established as an apex agency as a result of collaboration with GOSL and
IDA and with the technical assistance from UNDP. The Trust received and disbursed designated
project funds to Partner Organizations and NGOs (NGOs/POs) according to criteria agreed with
IDA. Thie establishment of the Employment and Poverty Policy Unit was the responsibility of the
MPPI. The Trust was chartered in January 1991. Its charter specified its non-profit character
and its authority to enter into relationships with foreign sources of funding that have received
GOSL approval. Its objectives were employment generation and poverty alleviation. The Trust
comprised three elements: (i) a Board of Trustees; (ii) an NGO advisory Board and (iii) an
executive arm. It linked with the GOSL through the Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation (in 1995 this Ministry was incorporated into the Ministry of Finances). A
technical assistance team assisted the Board and a Managing Director of the Trust. The
Managing Director and the Board were all appointed by the Government, although the NGO
sector was represented as stipulated in the original agreements with IDA. However, in practice
the Trust operated very much as a government body and did not attain the necessary
flexibility and autonomy to become a true partner of the NGO partner organizations. The
lack of autonomy and flexibility of the Trust proved to be one of the major weaknesses
throughout the project life in developing strategies for poverty alleviation with the support
and through NGOs.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The achievement of project objectives was partial and unsatisfactory. The overall
objectives, expansion of employment opportunities and incomes among the poor, and the
reduction of malnutrition among mothers and young children, were achieved to a limited
extent. There were several reasons for the unsatisfactory project performance:



- iii -
a)    Political Factors: Political factors worked to the detriment of the project. The project's
name in the early years, Janasaviya Trust Fund, caused it to be associated with the government's
Janasaviya Program. This introduced a degree of political identification of JTF that hampered
project implementation. Opponents of the government actively sought to hinder project
operations, while some supporters of the government sought to use project funds to extend
political patronage. The new government, which assumed office in August 1994, took time to
review the project, and was ambiguous in its commitment to project activities as these were
perceived as an arm of the previous government's agenda.
b)    Troubled GOSL-NGO Relationship: The relationship between GOSL and NGOs was
weak throughout the project's life time. This weakened implementation given the large role
envisaged for NGOs as partner organizations (POs) of NDTF in the delivery of project services.
* In 1991, at project inception, the government in power had appointed a commission to
investigate NGO activities. This alienated the NGO sector and made them unwilling to
establish a partnership with NDTF which was perceived as a government institution. During
project preparation the largest and most experienced NGO, Sarvodaya, had been expected to
play a prominent role in project implementation. However, when the NGO commission was in
progress, Sarvodaya was banned from participating in NDTF activities. These factors caused
project disbursements to be initially delayed by more than one year.
* After 17 years of opposition the new government had come into power in mid-1994 pledging to
alleviate poverty through its flagship Samurdhi Program [see Box 2 in the main text]. Samurdhi
was to be implemented by a cadre of workers recruited directly by the government. It only
accorded a more limited role for NGOs/POs than was intended during project preparation. Thus
there was no significant move towards adopting a more participatory approach as envisaged in
the project.
* After the new government assumed office, there were again allegations of political bias and
corruption against NGOs/POs, especially those involved in the HRDF. It appeared that some
NGOs might have used project funds to promote political election campaigns for the pre-1994
government. These allegations culminated in GOSL appointing another committee of inquiry in
1995. NDTF agreed with IDA that external auditors should be contracted (Coopers & Lybrand)
and that all NGOs (about 140) having received funds through the Credit Fund would be audited.
After a lengthy preparation process the external auditors produced at the end of 1995 a detailed
audit report reviewing the 12 largest Credit NGOs (who together represented 87% of
outstanding funds from the Credit Fund). This external auditor report, which was jointly
accepted by IDA and the GOSL, concluded that (i) most NGOs needed to strengthen and
improve their financial accounting procedures, (ii) for most NGOs accounting procedures were
in accordance with Sri Lanka's required guidelines, but not necessarily with internationally
agreed guidelines, (iii) many smaller NGOs needed substantial training and technical assistance
to bring their accounting procedures in line with accepted standards, and (iv) procedures and
eligibility criteria for the Credit Fund needed to be revised.
* After the change of government in August 1994, doubts about NDTF's continued existence,
which originated in the GOSL creation and strong support for the Samurdhi Program, created
some uncertainty in the minds of NDTF staff and among NGOs/POs. This led to increased staff



- Iv -
turnover, reduced personal incentives for investment in human capital development and
caused work flow interruptions and cutbacks in the field.
c)    Lack of a strategy for institutional development and capacity building: The SAR
recommendations for developing NGO/PO capacity and institutional strengthening were
inadequately implemented. Although 25% of HRDF funds (about US$2.9 million) was to be
allocated for strengthening the conceptual and management skills of NGOs/POs, only a
negligible portion of this was actually spent for such activities.
d)    Limited results from international technical assistance: The IBRD was requested by
the GOSL and UNDP to administrate the UNDP grant for tectnical assistance to the JTF
(NDTF). Four long term international consultants were contracted under IBRD conditions by
JTF (NDTF). However, because their contracts were with the Bank, the NGOs were given the
impression that the consultants were working for IBRD. In fact they were selected by and working
under responsibility of the JTF (NDTF). In monitoring and evaluation, the technical assistance was
partly successful. However, NDTF was not satisfied with results in the area of HRD, management,
micro-credit and internal staff training. In addition, one of the long term consultants, who was
brought in the first year of project implementation (1991) to assist NDTF with Human Resource
Development and Management improvements, joined some NGOs in opposing NDTF and failed to
deliver good practices on partnerships. International consultants were recruited between 1993-95
to: (i) help improve strategies for credit and micro-enterprise development; (ii) design and develop
NGO training programs; and (iii) design and implement NDTF's monitoring and evaluation
activities. In early 1995 the GOSL decided not to renew the technical assistance contracts and
requested the Bank to act accordingly. In the meantime, the Bank, UNDP and GOSL had reviewed
the technical assistance financed under the UNDP grant in a joint supervision mission executed in
late 1994. It was jointly decided that the administration of the Technical Assistance program by the
-Bank and its results left much to be desired. This further weakened the already weak management
within NDTF. The administration of the UNDP grant would be returned to the UNDP office in
Colombo with the aim to transfer management of the remaining funds to the GOSL (NDTF) at a
later stage. The UNDP grant had disbursed at that point about US$1 million. The transfer of
management to the GOSL did not take place and UNDP canceled the remaining amount.
e)    Absence of synergy between trustfunds: The project was expected to develop synergy
between the four trust funds in field implementation activities. It was an important assumption in
the project design that communities and NGOs would progress to use all four Funds to escape
poverty. However, it was not always possible for NGOs to develop all four TF activities, because
NGOs were in many cases specialized. This was insufficiently recognized during the early
implementation years. NGOs wanted to be selective and build capacity more slowly in new
areas. The RWF was intended to be the first initiating activity and it was thought that this would
help to activate communities to start savings schemes, mobilize the poorest in the communities,
obtain training and use the Credit Fund for micro credit and employment generation activities.
This proved to be a difficult task to achieve for several reasons:
* Project interventions in one fund failed to lead smoothly to interventions in other funds.
According to the SAR, social mobilization activities under the HRDF were expected to
prepare beneficiaries for participation in the CMED, RWF and nutrition activities.
Alternately, nutrition interventions which proved to be a good entrance into a community,
were to lead to credit and rural works activities. However, such progression of activities
from one fund to another was limited due to weak understanding within NDTF of the



importance of promoting synergy between activities of the four trust funds and poor
coordination of efforts between NDTF trust funds and NGOs/POs; and
* Uncoordinated sector specialization by NGOs/POs also weakened synergy effects between
project components. For example, at peak project implementation in 1996, 55% of
NGOs/POs were only working with one of NDTF's funds, while only 27% worked with all
four funds. In addition, the lack of training to develop NGO/PO expertise prevented them
from expanding and diversifying their activities.
Weak monitoring and evaluation mechanisms during the first three projectyears:
Monitoring and evaluation was weak throughout the life of the project. According to the SAR, a
management information system (MIS) was to be developed in NDTF to facilitate decision-
making and management. In practice this proved to be very difficult. Only in mid-1995, as a
result of technical assistance (from IDA missions and international consultants) did an adequate
monitoring system at three levels slowly emerge: (1) within NDTF organization, (2) between
NGOs and NDTF, and (3) by NGOs at beneficiary levels. This was a complex task and required
costly and dedicated work by NGOs. The results from these efforts did not show up but in the
last year of project implementation and thus have not contributed significantly to the project. An
exception was the monitoring mechanisms established early by the Nutrition Fund. This was
very effective, and broke new ground. However, with the change of the Nutrition Director at the
end of 1995 the results deteriorated again. Nevertheless, toward the end of project
implementation an effective monitoring mechanism had emerged and it was possible (with
technical assistance) to analyze the project's impact over the last three implementation years.
Due to the initial delays in implementation at the start of the project life, disbursement during the
last three project years represented the major part of disbursed project funds.
6.    Credit and Micro-Enterprise Development (CMED) Fund. The objectives of the CMED
Fund were only partially satisfied. The SAR expected that about 175,000 poor households would be
able to increase their earnings from credit and entrepreneurial activities. However, only 117,000
micro-enterprises were established during the project life. Among these, only about 37% survived
beyond three years of operation. Net employment creation was 40,000 jobs (approximately 23% of
SAR targets). Beneficiary targeting was generally sound, with project selection criteria being
satisfied in over 90% of cases. The majority of micro-enterprises did not develop capacity to
expand production, improve product quality or diversify into new lines of production. This was
partly the result of a lack of training in enterprise development. However, it was also partly the
result of difficulties inherent in promoting micro-enterprises in a troubled economic and political
climate. The SAR may have also over-estimated the demand for credit. The repayment rate of loans
from NGOs/POs to NDTF was about 97%, while the repayment rate of loans from beneficiaries to
NGOs was only about 83%, suggesting that NGOs/POs were utilizing its own funds, including the
earnings and assistance from other sources, to repay NDTF credits.
7.    Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF). The objectives of the HRDF were only
partially met. Over 1.1 million low-income households were reached and mobilized, with
beneficiaries organized into about 177,000 small groups. Beneficiary targeting was sound, with the
majority of beneficiaries coming from households below the poverty line. The social mobilization
efforts contributed to enhanced social capital in low income communities, one of the implicit
objectives of all social fund projects. The participatory approaches used by NGOs/POs (as
compared to previous top-down and paternalistic approaches toward community development)



- vi -
resulted in improved bargaining power and self-reliance among the poor. But the HRDF was only
partially able to fulfill its main aim of providing skills and competencies to enable individuals to
establish successful micro-enterprises. Insufficient preparatory training in the selection and
development of micro-enterprises appropriate to rural markets, consumer demand and village
technologies led to limited success in micro-enterprise development.
8.     Rural Works Fund (RWF). The objectives of the RWF were partially satisfied.
Approximately 700,000 households benefited directly from about 7,765 RW projects. The roads,
bridges and culverts constructed or rehabilitated lowered travel time and costs to schools, health
facilities, post offices, banks and shops, improved access to raw materials and inputs for production,
and enhanced access to markets to sell outputs. Irrigation facilities constructed under the project
improved the productivity of agricultural activities and increased the availability of irritable land.
Hence, the rural works projects constructed are likely to have had a positive effect on social welfare
and poverty. However, project targets for employment generation and wage incomes were not met.
Only about 3.5 million work days of employment, worth about SLR210 million (US$5 million) in
real wages were generated through the rural works program, as compared to the SAR target of 10
million work days, worth SLR600 million (US$15 million) in real wages. The project's financial
allocation to RW projects was completely utilized. Hence, the shortfall in the quantity and value of
wage employment created may be partly attributed to cost-ineffective methods of project
construction. It is also likely that the SAR targets for work days and wage income were over-
optimistic. Also, by project closure, sound maintenance arrangements had not been established for
rural works facilities.
9.     Nutrition Fund (NF). The activities of the nutrition fund were the most successful. The
project covered over one-fifth of the population within the conflict-free zones of Sri Lanka, and was
operational in 18 of the 25 districts. At peak project operation (1995-96) about 68 NGOs/POs were
involved in nutrition interventions in over 1,600 Grama Niladari Divisions (GNDs), with a
beneficiary participation rate of 89% of the target population. Beneficiary targeting was sound, with
benefits concentrated among the poorest members of village comnmunities. The outreach of the two
approaches, the In-Depth Program and the Basic Program, was approximately 700,000 mothers and
2.7 million children, well in excess of the SAR target of 300,000 mothers and I million children.
Program success can largely be attributed to innovative interventions focusing on behavioral factors
rather than food insecurity. The reliance on participatory approaches succeeded in enhancing
nutrition awareness and improving feeding practices, as compared to previous prescriptive
approaches which had yielded insignificant results. However, government production and
distribution of the nutrition supplementary food, Triposha, was unsatisfactory and had to be
discontinued in 1996. Also, the long-term sustainability of improved nutrition behavior is not yet
known.
10.    Gender Objectives. The gender objectives of the project were partially met. The social
mobilization efforts contributed to improving women's self-reliance and bargaining power.
However, the entrepreneurship training provided to women was inadequate to enable them to
increase incomes through micro-enterprise development. The 1997 NGO-Beneficiary
Assessment revealed that only about one third of women participants who received credit were
able to operate successful micro-enterprises. Successful credit beneficiaries tended to have
family business connections.
11.    The Employment and Poverty Policy Unit (EPPU) and the Poverty Monitoring Unit
(PMU). The EPPU and PMU were partially successful in meeting their objective of strengthening



- vii -
government capacity to develop national policies for poverty alleviation and employment
generation. Several studies on poverty monitoring and policy research provided valuable
information on critical factors related to labor market functioning and the interrelationships between
poverty and unemployment. These were used in policy formulation by a number of government
ministries and agencies. However, GOSL was not able to develop a mechanism through which
policy research findings could feed consistently into policy formulation and resource allocation for
poverty reduction.
12.   Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. The main objective of expanding
institutional capacity to serve the poor and creating additional capacity, was met only to a limited
extent. Capacity building in NDTF was weak, partly due to its failure to transfer knowledge gained
from international technical assistance recruited for this purpose. Project implementation was
hampered by the inability of NDTF to provide adequate training to NGOs/POs. Better training
would have strengthened the ability of NGOs/POs to implement activities especially in the HRD
component. Consequently, NDTF was also unable to significantly assist NGOs/POs develop their
program implementation capacities and skills. However, over the course of project implementation,
communication and cooperation among NGOs/POs and between NGOs/POs and the government
had improved considerably at the end of the project. Also, many NGOs/POs improved their
management capabilities, expertise and field effectiveness, although largely through their own
efforts.
Project Sustainability
13.   The prospects for project sustainability are limited. The experience gained through this
project has apparently failed to convince the Government that the principle of publicly financed
poverty alleviation activities managed by a flexible, semi-autonomous apex body which contracts
NGOs to implement poverty programs is superior to that of direct interventions by specialized
government agencies. GOSL has shifted its focus to more direct government implementation of
poverty alleviation activities through its Samurdhi poverty alleviation program.
14.    While NGOs continue to play a role under several GOSL programs, such as the integrated
rural development program, the prospects for continued NGO involvement in poverty alleviation
activities are however sound. The NGO-Beneficiary Assessment showed that NGOs have generally
expanded their access to sources of funding from external sources (bilateral and private donors), and
utilize these resources to sustain their involvement in micro-credit, social mobilization and nutrition
programs for the poor.
Future Operations
15.   GOSL has expressed interest in a follow-up poverty project which would be supportive of
and build on its Samurdhi program. While the Bank is committed to funding programs for poverty
alleviation in Sri Lanka, the nature and scope of such programs are yet to be determined. GOSL has
organized a consultative process, consisting of key government officials, donors and local
consultants, to undertake analytical work on poverty related issues. The Bank is supporting this
process through its economic sector work on poverty and support for an integrated survey and
analysis. This work is expected to provide the foundation for a follow-up poverty project in the next
fiscal year.



-viii -
Key Lessons Learned
16.    There are several important lessons to be drawn from this project.
a) Implementing poverty alleviation activities through NGOs operating under an apex semi-
government organization is an extremely complex and demanding task The managerial,
administrative, research and technical skills and competencies required are formidable.
Substantial lead time and resource investment would be required to develop institutional
capacity to ensure that project implementing agencies and NGOs/POs function efficiently.
b) The apex organization through which assistance is channeled to NGOs/POs needs to have a
sound governance structure, and a high degree of autonomy from government. Project
activities suffered because the NDTF was perceived as politically linked to the Janasaviya
poverty alleviation program of the earlier government. Also, the NDTF was located under the
Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Board of Management consisted mainly of public
servants, so that administrative and financial procedures tended to be strict. It should
recognized, however, that in spending public funds, certain rules have to be followed in order to
achieve accountability and prevent misappropriation and waste. This was perceived as
bureaucratic by some NGOs/POs. It is important that an apex organization be highly
autonomous, so that it can play an effective facilitating role among NGOs/POs. It is also
important that NGOs/POs be given considerable decision-making power in program
implementation. However, this has to be achieved within the context of adequate financial
accountability and transparency.
c) The staff of an apex organization like NDTF needs to possess experience with and respect for
NGOs. This was lacking in the project. NGOs encountered considerable problems with NDTF
staff members because the latter lacked experience of, and respect for, NGO activity. For
instance, during one period of project implementation NDTF refused to allow NGOs to utilize
funds obtained from NDTF to pay NGO staff salaries, although these NGO staff members were
engaged in implementing poverty alleviation activities under the NDTF trust funds. In contrast,
there were periods when project components were facilitated by the presence of individual
NDTF staff members who respected and sympathized with NGOs/POs activities. For example,
the success of activities under the nutrition fund were partly due to the existence of a
committed, well-informed Nutrition Fund management. Subsequently, after the management of
the nutrition fund changed in late 1995, the quality of activities deteriorated.
d) The economic rationale and technicalfeasibility ofproject components need to be analyzed
and developed with care. The HRDF failed to provide the poor with adequate technical skills
to undertake micro-enterprise activities successfully, as envisaged in the SAR. However, it is
highly questionable whether successful entrepreneurship skills, including taking calculated
risks, can be developed through training. Also, the demand for employment among the poor
was mainly for wage employment, not micro-enterprise opportunities. Action to remove
constraints to the growth of wage employment opportunities, especially in off-farm activities,
may be a more effective strategy to assist the poor than the supply of credit to promote micro-
enterprises.



- ix -
e) Pilot projects, as a basisfor testing strategies and approaches, can play a central role in
facilitating overallproject success. The project could have benefited greatly from a pilot phase
at project inception which would have helped identify best strategies as well as field constraints.
The project SAR recommended that implementation models be developed and that networking
among NGOs/POs be supported. However, in practice there was little support for such
activities. Piloting would have provided valuable experience and models, as well as the
opportunity to identify possible shortcomings in design and field constraints early.
J) A high quality and effective MIS, including regular beneficiary surveys, is essential to ensure
efficient project implementation and achievement of objectives. The quality of project
implementation would have been substantially strengthened if a high quality management
information system (MIS) had been established early in the project life. A MIS should contain
sound baseline survey data, realistic trends and targets to be achieved, and clearly specified
input, process, output and impact indicators.
g) Importance of exploiting synergy effects. Synergy between the four trust fund components,
rural works, nutrition, human resource development and micro-credit, needed to be exploited to
derive optimal social benefits from the project. This aim was partially achieved by some large
NGOs/POs, with adequate capacity, which implemented all four project components: rural
works, nutrition, human resource development and micro-credit. However, the aim was not
achieved by other smaller NGOs/POs specializing in one or two activities. Such NGOs/POs
should have been related by NDTF to other NGOs/POs operating in complementary areas so
that synergy effects could have been exploited through their combined activities. However,
although integration of complex poverty alleviation interventions is desirable, it is not always
possible or realistic to expect a multi-dimensional approach from small rural NGOs.
Unfortunately, the NDTF component trust funds operated relatively independently of each
other, so that synergy between project components could not be effectively exploited.
h) Importance ofproviding training to NGOs/POs in poverty alleviation activities Project
implementation was hampered by the inability of NDTF to provide adequate training to
NGOs/POs. Better training would have strengthened the ability of NGOs/POs to implement
activities, especially in the HRD component.
i) Most NGOs/POs' administrative andfinancial systems did not comply with Bank-required
accountability and audit regulations. The complexity of this problem was insufficiently
recognized during project preparation and appraisal. NDTF's original four operational
divisions adopted compartmentalized approaches because of weaknesses in project design,
political climate and the complexity of building institutional capacity.
j)  The Government's broad strategyfor poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka underwent a major
shift in emphasis mid-way through the projects lifespan. Originally, under this project, the
strategy of delivering assistance to the poor through NGOs/POs was given a prominent role by
the Government. In this context, the NDTF was planned as an apex organization to provide
assistance to NGOs/POs to implement poverty alleviation programs. After the new government
assumed office in August 1994 the emphasis of the overall poverty alleviation strategy changed.
The Samurdhi poverty program gave prominence to the strategy of delivering assistance 'to the
poor directly through government channels, (the Samurdhi Niyamakas), rather than through
NGOs/POs. NDTF ceased to play an important role in the new poverty alleviation strategy.



SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
(Credit 2231-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  INTRODUCTION
1.    The Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2231-CE) evaluated in this report was prepared by
the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the World Bank between October 1988 and April
1990. The project was appraised in October 1990, negotiated in March 1991 and a credit of
US$57.5 million approved by the Board in April 1991. The credit was signed in May 1991 and
became effective on September 26, 1991. The project was the first of its kind in Sri Lanka,
departing from previous welfare oriented approaches to poverty reduction and relying on a
production-oriented strategy. The project was consistent with the objectives of the Sri Lanka
CAS and the GOSL's own policy objectives for poverty reduction through broad-base economic
growth supported by poverty alleviation programs.
Figure 1. Major Poverty Indicators Used During
Project Preparation
50% l
2 0 %   _;a: J|llglli ¢     :
Percentage of  Percentage of  Percentage of
Population Living in  Children  Labor Force
Poverty (1985)  Malnourished    Unemployed (1985)
(1987)
Sources: Malnutrition (Department of Census and Statistics),
Poverty (Rouse, 1990),
Unemployment (Department of Census and Statistics)
Economic and Political Background
2.     Sri Lanka experienced considerable political instability and economic hardship during the
period this project was being prepared (1988-1991). A civil war in the North East increased in
intensified in 1987. The rest of the country experienced a violent youth insurrection during 1987-
89. This political unrest hampered economic performance during 1987-91. The annual rate of



-2 -
economic growth was low, average inflation high and the exchange rate depreciated sharply.
Poverty, with 46% of the population estimated to be living below a food-based poverty line' and
unemployment at 14% of the labor force, were serious economic problems. Also, malnutrition
levels of children was high, at 38%.
Figure 2. Status of Major Poverty Indicators Used During
Project Preparation: Most Recent Estimates
40% ,
33%:
30%-
20%       j22%k
10%       L
10%
0%    -
Percentage of      Percentage of       Percentage of
Population Living in    Children          Labor Force
Poverty (1990)      Malnourished     Unemployed (1997)
(1995)
Sources: Malnutrition (Department of Census and Statistics),
Poverty (World Bank)
Unemployment (Department of Census and Statistics)
3.      Major political changes also occurred from 1991-1997, during project implementation.
The President was assassinated in April 1993, creating political uncertainty. In August 1994, the
sitting government, which had been continuously in office for 17 years, was defeated at the
general election. The arrival of a new government brought about substantial changes in
administration, affecting project implementation. Violence intensified from 1996 onwards, with
major bomb attacks on important institutions, including the Central Bank and an office complex
which contained the project implementing agency, the National Development Trust Fund
(NDTF). The political instability caused by the civil war substantially damaged the economy.
During 1992-97 inflation continued to be high, the exchange rate depreciated sharply and the
government budget deficit was high. Real wage rates declined among workers and government
employees. Such economic and political trends were likely to have had an adverse impact on the
incidence, depth and severity of poverty.2  However, child malnutrition fell from 38% in 1987 to
33% in 1995, and unemployment declined from 14% in 1985-90 to 10% in 1997. Project
activities are likely to have contributed to these improvements in malnutrition and
unemployment.
Rouse, C.E. (1990) A Study of the Poor in Sri Lanka, Report No.IDP65, World Bank.
2 Poverty estimates for overall Sri Lanka after 1990/91 are not yet available. However, there is evidence of worsening poverty in
some areas of the country in recent years; see Aturupane, Rodrigo and Perera, Poverty Among Female Headed Households, (1996)
Ministry of Plan Implementation, Poverty Monitoring Unit.



-3 -
Table 1: Selected Key Economic Indicators, 1987-91 and 1992-97
1987-91          1992-97
Annual GDP growth rate (constant 1982 prices)           3.5              5.4
Inflation rate (% change in consumer price index)       13.4             10.8
Exchange rate depreciation (% change in SLR:US$ 1)      40.8             29.2
Government budget deficit as a % of GDP                -12.0             -9.0
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Reports
B.  PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
Project Rationale
4.    At the time of project preparation the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) provided several
consumption oriented welfare services to assist the poor. These included food stamps, kerosene
stamps and a time-bound poverty alleviation scheme, the Janasaviya Program [Box 1], which
consisted of a consumption grant and a savings contribution linked to community work over a
two year period. However, the magnitude of economic and social hardship was such that GOSL
was anxious to speed up poverty reduction through a project containing direct anti-poverty
measures. Moreover, the Janasaviya program was planned to be phased out in 1991, and GOSL
needed a replacement poverty program.3 Also, GOSL desired to move away from its traditional
consumption-based poverty alleviation approach to a production-based poverty alleviation
strategy. In this context GOSL requested IDA assistance to design and finance a production-
oriented poverty alleviation project.
Project Objectives
5.    The project had two main general objectives:
*     Expansion of employment opportunities and incomes among the poor; and
*     Reduction of malnutrition among pregnant and nursing mothers, and children under 3
years of age (raised at project mid-term to 5 years of age).
To achieve these general objectives, the project had the following five specific objectives:
a)    Reorient and expand existing institutional capacity to serve the poor, and to create
additional capacity. This was to be achieved by:
* Establishing and building capacity in a semi-autonomous apex institution to facilitate and
manage poverty alleviation activities implemented through NGOs/POs; and
* Strengthening the capacity of NGOs/POs to implement poverty programs.
b)    Develop credit and other services for promoting self-employment and micro-enterprise
development through group based lending and entrepreneurial development. This was to be
achieved through:
3In practice, the Janasaviya Program continued until 1995, when the new govemment replaced it with the Samurdhi Progran.



-4 -
* The Credit and Micro-Enterprise Development Fund (CMED), which provided credit to
promote micro-enterprises and income generating activities among the poor; and
* The Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF), which provided assistance to train
beneficiaries in competencies like thrift habits, credit discipline, managerial methods and
marketing skills, needed to operate and develop commercially viable micro-enterprises.
c)    Expand productive wage employment for the poor through technically, economically
and socially viable rural works projects. This was to be achieved through:
* The Rural Works Fund (RWF), which provided assistance to construct, rehabilitate and
renovate rural infrastructure.
d)    Develop programs for nutritional interventions for malnourished children and
pregnant and nursing mothers. This was to be achieved through:
* The Women and Child Nutrition Fund (WCNF), which provided assistance to reduce
malnutrition through nutrition awareness and education programs, child weight monitoring,
training in sound food preparation habits and healthy hygiene practices, and delivery of
supplementary food.
e)     Create policy research and program formulation capacity to take greater account of
issues of poverty and unemployment in overall growth policies and public investment projects.
This was to be achieved through:
* Establishment of an Employment and Poverty Monitoring Unit (EPPU) in the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. At project mid-term a Poverty Monitoring Unit was also set up in the
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Project Design
6.     The project was designed to rely on participatory approaches to mobilize the poor, with
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and partner organizations (POs)4 playing a leading role.
At the time of project preparation it was believed that participatory approaches with NGO
intermediation were the most effective strategies in settings where social, economic and political
constraints limited the economic activities of the poor.
7.    Administration of the Funds (CF, HRDF, RWF, NF) was the responsibility of the
Janasaviya Trust Fund (JTF), renamed in 1995 the National Development Trust Fund (NDTF).
The JTF (NDTF) was established as an apex agency as a result of collaboration with GOSL and
IDA and with the technical assistance from UNDP. The Trust received and disbursed designated
project funds to Partner Organizations and NGOs (NGOs/POs) according to criteria agreed with
IDA. The establishment of the Employment and Poverty Policy Unit was the responsibility of the
MPPI. The Trust was chartered in January 1991. Its charter specified its non-profit character
and its authority to enter into relationships with foreign sources of funding that have received
GOSL approval. Its objectives were employment generation and poverty alleviation. The Trust
4 Partner organizations were defined as government agencies collaborating in project activities.



comprised three elements: (i) a Board of Trustees; (ii) an NGO advisory Board and (iii) an
executive arm. It linked with the GOSL through the Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation (in 1995 this Ministry was incorporated into the Ministry of Finances). A
technical assistance team assisted the Board and a Managing Director of the Trust. The
Managing Director and the Board were all appointed by the Government, although the NGO
sector was represented as stipulated in the original agreements with IDA. However, in practice
the Trust operated very much as a government body and did not attain the necessary
flexibility and autonomy to become a true partner of the NGO partner organizations. The
lack of autonomy and flexibility of the Trust proved to be one of the major weaknesses
throughout the project life in developing strategies for poverty alleviation with the support
and through NGOs. This weakness had its origin in the continuous and intense politicization of
poverty alleviation programs financed by the Government. It was recognized as a major risk
during project preparation, but in the end it was not possible to avoid implementation problems
arising from it. The new government, which took office in mid-1994, made good progress to
address some of the problems by renaming the Trust and changing the composition of the Board
of Trustees. The new Board also initially strengthened the influence of NGO representatives and
created an advisory NGO body. However, the influence of and "sense of partnership" by NGOs
remained weak throughout the project life due to continuous "lack of trust" between the
government and major NGOs.
Box 1: The Janasaviya Program
in~ ~~~~~a imrdice in 19& i.|             1
Nl~  f1f                                               Les th o he loz _h pornWS toee  .R0 US$1 2 
.oh.E  aeeiire wet nik I  o    ntfLR50ZJU   pe1ot vro   h
gdt wsdvddit' _:cmoens Qacnupingato SLR4OU 4 to beusd o



- 6 -
C.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING PERFORMANCE
8.    The achievement of project objectives was partial and unsatisfactory. The overall
objectives, expansion of employment opportunities and incomes among the poor, and the
reduction of malnutrition among mothers and young children, were only achieved to a limited
extent. There were several reasons for the unsatisfactory project performance:
9.    Political Factors: Political factors worked to the detriment of the project. The project's
name in the early years, Janasaviya Trust Fund, caused it to be associated with the government's
Janasaviya Program. This introduced a degree of political identification of JTF that hampered
project implementation. Opponents of the government actively sought to hinder project
operations, while some supporters of the government sought to use project funds to extend
political patronage. The new government, which assumed office in August 1994, took time to
review the project, and was ambiguous in its commitment to project activities as these were
perceived as an arm of the previous government's agenda.
10.    Troubled GOSL-NGO Relationship: The relationship between GOSL and NGOs was
weak throughout the project's life time. This weakened implementation given the large role
envisaged for NGOs as partner organizations (POs) of NDTF in the delivery of project services.
*  In 1991, at project inception, the government in power had appointed a commission to
investigate NGO activities. This alienated the NGO sector and made them unwilling to
establish a partnership with NDTF which was perceived as a government institution. During
project preparation the largest and most experienced NGO, Sarvodaya, had been expected to
play a prominent role in project implementation. However, when the NGO commission was in
progress, Sarvodaya was banned from participating in NDTF activities. These factors caused
project disbursements to be initially delayed by over one year.
*  After 17 years of opposition the new government had come into power in mid-1994 pledging to
alleviate poverty through its flagship Samurdhi Program [see Box 2]. Samurdhi was to be
implemented by a cadre of workers recruited directly by the government. It only accorded a
more limited role for NGOs/POs than was intended during project preparation. Thus there was
no significant move towards adopting a more participatory approach as envisaged in the project.
* After the new government assumed office, there were again allegations of political bias and
corruption against NGOs/POs, especially those involved in the HRDF. It appeared that some
NGOs might have used project funds to promote political election campaigns for the pre- 1994
government. These allegations culminated in GOSL appointing another committee of inquiry in
1995. NDTF agreed with IDA that external auditors should be contracted (Coopers & Lybrand)
and that all NGOs (about 140 NGOs were reported at the time to have used or using Credit
Funds from NDTF) having received funds through the Credit Fund would be audited. After a
lengthy preparation process the external auditors produced at the end of 1995 a detailed audit
report reviewing the 12 largest Credit NGOs (who together represented 87% of outstanding
funds from the Credit Fund). This external auditor report, which was jointly accepted by IDA
and the GOSL, concluded that (1) most NGOs needed to strengthen and improve their financial
accounting procedures, (2) for most NGOs accounting procedures were in accordance with Sri



-7 -
Lanka's required guidelines, but not necessarily with internationally agreed guidelines, (3)
many smaller NGOs needed substantial training and technical assistance to bring their
accounting procedures in line with accepted standards, and (iv) procedures and eligibility
criteria for the Credit Fund needed to be revised. IDA and the GOSL followed up on this report
and NDTF began an intensive training and technical assistance program for NGOs to remedy
the problems. Meanwhile the Presidential Committee of Inquiry was scheduled to produce its
findings within three months (August 1995). However, it took over a year to come to a final
report. While the findings of the committee were inconclusive, and did not lead to convictions,
the climate of distrust between GOSL and NGOs/POs worsened again. In this climate NDTF's
work was difficult. It had just begun, under the management of a new Managing Director
(government official) and renewed Board of Trustees composition, to improve financial
monitoring mechanisms among NGOs and re-emphasize its role as a facilitating apex
organization.
* After the change of government in August 1994, doubts about NDTF's continued existence,
which originated in the GOSL creation and strong support for the Samurdhi Program, created
some uncertainty in the minds of NDTF staff and among NGOs/POs. This led to increased staff
turnover, reduced personal incentives for investment in human capital development, and
caused work flow interruptions and cutbacks in the field.
11.   Lack of a Strategy for Institutional Development and Capacity Building: SAR
recommendations for developing NGOs/POs capacity and institutional strengthening were
inadequately implemented. Although 25% of HRDF funds (about US$2.9 million) was to be
allocated for strengthening the conceptual and management skills of NGOs/POs, only a
negligible portion of this was actually spent for such activities. The recommendation of the mid-
term supervision mission that NDTF prepare a needs assessment for capacity building was not
completed. While NGO/PO field implementation improved over time through informal
exchanges with each other and by learning from early mistakes, this was a costly and time
consuming process.
12.   Inadequate Assessment of the NGO Sector: The project was unable to correctly
estimate the relative strengths and weaknesses of the NGO sector, resulting in uneven
implementation.
*  NDTF failed to make adequate contractual arrangements with NGOs/POs in the early years
of project implementation. This caused uncertainty among NGOs/POs concerning the scope
and scale of activities that would be supported by NDTF. Yet, NGOs/POs were expected to
make financial commitments and commence program activities. This was further aggravated
by NDTFs failure to reimburse NGOs fully, and on time, for their expenses resulting from
project activities.
*  In the early years, under increasing pressure to improve disbursements, NDTF reluctantly
brought in emerging NGOs as partners. NDTF had to relax the SAR eligibility criteria to
admit many newly formed NGOs, who had insufficient field experience and managerial
capacity. But NDT1 was unable to invest resources to strengthen their capacity adequately to
facilitate efficient program implementation.



- 8 -
*  At peak project operation (1995-96), about 200 NGOs vvere registered with NDTF, and an
additional 100 or so credit organizations (including commercial and rural Banks and
cooperative societies). Only a handful met all the eligibility criteria specified in the SAR.
*  NGOs/POs were a heterogeneous group with diverse perceptions, strategies and agendas.
Throughout the project's life they failed to cooperate consistently together to promote project
objectives.
13.   Complex Disbursement Procedures and Cash Flow Problems: NDTF had developed
unduly complex disbursement procedures. Also, disbursement procedures relied largely on
reimbursement for expenses incurred by NGOs/POs for project implementation activities. Given
their low reserve ceilings, small and medium NGOs/POs found it nearly impossible to meet the
up front costs of their field activities. Similarly, cash flow problems between the Treasury and
NDTF caused delays in repayments to NGOs/POs, often leading to mid-stream field work
interruptions and stoppages.
14.    Weak Organizational Structure and Inefficient Routine Functioning of NDTF: An
in-depth review of NDTF's organizational structure at the mid-term review revealed that it did
not facilitate efficient implementation of project activities. The four trusts funds sometimes had
inconsistent strategies, lacked autonomy and imposed such stringent financial controls on
NGOs/POs that project disbursements were hampered. Just prior to the Mid-Term Project
Review, the new government had replaced NDTFs Managing Director (MD). The new MD was
only available part time and emphasized government control with new vigor. This further
alienated the NGOs, since a new investigation had begun at the same time. Recommendations
were made at the mid-term review to establish an intermediary layer of authority, by recruiting
experienced specialists from the private sector as managers ifor each Fund. While these
recommendations were followed, they were not applied in spirit, so that sole decision-making
power still lay exclusively with the Managing Director. The decision-making process was further
hampered and delayed as the Managing Director assumed only a part time office in NDTF,
increasing the backlog in administrative functions.
15.   Limited Results from International Technical Assistance: The IBRD was requested by
the GOSL and UNDP to administrate the UNDP grant for technical assistance to the JTF
(NDTF). Four long term international consultants were contracted under IBRD conditions by
JTF (NDTF). However, because their contracts were with the Bank, the NGOs were given the
impression that the consultants were working for IBRD. In fact they were selected by and working
under responsibility of the JTF (NDTF). In monitoring and evaluation, the technical assistance was
partly successful. However, NDTF was not satisfied with results in the area of HRD, management,
micro-credit and internal staff training. In addition, one of the long term consultants, who was
brought in the first year of project implementation (1991) to assist NDTF with Human Resource
Development and Management improvements, joined some NGOs in opposing NDTF and failed to
deliver good practices on partnerships. International consultants were recruited between 1993-95
to: (i) help improve strategies for credit and micro-enterprise development; (ii) design and develop
NGO training programs; and (iii) design and implement NDTF's monitoring and evaluation
activities. In early 1995 the GOSL decided not to renew the technical assistance contracts and
requested the Bank to act accordingly. In the meantime, the Bank, UNDP and GOSL had reviewed
the technical assistance financed under the UNDP grant in a joint supervision mission executed in
late 1994. It was jointly decided that the administration of the Technical Assistance Program by the
Bank and its results left much to be desired. This further weakened the already weak management



-9-
within NDTF. The administration of the UJNDP grant would be returned to the UNDP office in
Colombo with the aim to transfer management of the remaining funds to the GOSL (NDTF) at a
later stage. The UNDP grant had disbursed at that point about US$1 million. The transfer of
management to the GOSL did not take place and UNDP canceled the remaining amount. IDA
insisted that NDTF would quickly begin with an internal training program. This was one of the
results from the joint project Mid-Term Review (May 1995) and recruit short term technical
assistance to do this. However, due to delays in appointing four new specialized Directors, as part
of a general management and organizational reform of NDTF and mounting unrest among NDTF
staff as a result of uncertainty of work conditions, an integrated staff training plan was not
implemented in time to have a positive effect on NDTF's perfortnance. It was not always possible
for NGOs to develop all four TF activities, because NGOs were in many cases specialized. This
was insufficiently recognized during the early implementation years. NGOs wanted to be selective
and build capacity more slowly in new areas. By the end of 1995 long term international technical
assistance was discontinued by the GOSL.
16.   Absence of Synergy Between Trust Funds: The project was expected to develop
synergy between the four trust funds in field implementation activities. This proved to be a
difficult task to achieve for several reasons.
*  Project interventions in one fund failed to lead smoothly to interventions in other funds.
According to the SAR, social mobilization activities under the HRDF were expected to
prepare beneficiaries for participation in CMED, RW and nutrition activities. Alternately,
nutrition interventions, which proved to be a good entrance into a community, were to lead to
credit and rural works activities. However, such progression of activities from one fund to
another was limited due to weak understanding within NDTF of the importance of promoting
synergy between activities of the four trust funds and poor coordination of efforts between
NDTF trust funds and NGOs/POs.
*  Weakly coordinated sector specialization by NGOs/POs also weakened synergy effects
between project components. For example, at peak project implementation in 1996, 55% of
NGOs/POs were only working with one of NDTF's funds, while only 27% worked with all
four funds. In addition, the lack of training to develop NGO/PO expertise prevented them
from expanding and diversifying their activities. NDTF should have co-ordinated the
activities of NGOs/POs specializing in one or two project components with the activities of
NGOs/POs specializing in other project components. Such action would have improved the
generation and utilization of synergy between the four components.
17.   Weak Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms during the first three project years:
Monitoring and evaluation was weak throughout the life of the project. According to the SAR, a
management information system (MIS) was to be developed in NDTF to facilitate decision-
making and management. In practice this proved to be very difficult. Only in mid-1995, as a
result of technical assistance (from IDA missions and international consultants) did an adequate
monitoring system at three level slowly emerge: (1) within NDTF organization, (2) between
NGOs and NDTF, and (3) by NGOs at beneficiary levels. This was a complex task and required
costly and dedicated work by NGOs. The result was an innovative monitoring system of
activities of some 250 NGOs, and within a complex and continuously changing organization of
NDTF. The results from these efforts did not show up but in the last year of project
implementation and thus have not contributed significantly to the project. An exception was the
monitoring mechanisms established early by the Nutrition Fund. This was very effective, and



- 10-
broke new ground. However, with the change of the Nutrition Director at the end of 1995 the
results deteriorated again. Research into monitoring and evaluation was not systematically
organized by NDTF, but undertaken in an ad-hoc way. ThLe monitoring and staff training
department operated up to 1995 in a compartmentalized way. Since there were no contractual
agreements with NGOs on annual delivery or results, it was difficult to establish benchmarks. By
the early 1995, however, the Managing Director established the practice of annual agreements
with each NGO and allocation of budgets based upon this. But it was too late in the project life,
because many problems within NDTF and among NGOs emerged and needed to be solved.
NDTF's institutional and management capacity was too weak for its own staff to fully appreciate
the importance of monitoring project and fund inputs, implementation processes, project
outcomes at NGO and beneficiary levels and evaluating beneficiary impacts within the context of
NDTF's key mission of poverty alleviation. Nevertheless, toward the end of project
implementation an effective monitoring mechanism had emerged and it was possible (with
technical assistance) to analyze the project's impact over the last three implementation years.
Due to the initial delays in implementation at the start of the project life, disbursement during the
last three project years represented the major part of disbursed project funds.
Achievement of Specific Project Objectives
18.   CMED Fund: The objectives of the CMED Fund were only partially achieved:
*  Approximately 117,000 micro-enterprises were promoted in low-income households through
CMED activities. However, evidence from the NGO-Beneficiary Assessment shows that the
survival rate of these micro-enterprises was moderate. About 34% of micro-enterprises closed
down during the first year of establishment, and an additional 29% failed in the next two years,
bringing the survival rate to 37% beyond the third year. This was a moderate survival rate, and
suggests that the majority of micro-enterprises could not be established on a commercially
sustainable basis.
*  The SAR had expected that about 175,000 poor households would be able to increase their
earnings from credit and entrepreneurial activities. However, evidence from the NGO-
Beneficiary Assessment suggests that only about 40,000 households (23% of the SAR target)
succeeded in improving their incomes through CMED activities. This was a substantial
shortfall.
*  The NGO-Beneficiary Assessment estimated that the average intemal rate of return of surviving
micro-enterprises, taking into account the cost of family labor and household production inputs,
was about 33% per year. This was above borrowing costs in the formal sector (interest rates of
17-27% per year), but well below informal sector borrowing costs (interest rates of 100% or
more per year).
*  The repayment rate of loans from NGOs/POs to NDTF, according to NDTF project data, was
about 97%. This was a very high repayment rate, exceeding the SAR target of 95%. However,
the NGO-Beneficiary Assessment estimated that average repayment rates of borrowers to
NGOs/POs was approximately 83%. This suggests that NDTF was being repaid by NGOs/POs
using funds from other sources. This implies that the efficiency of transactions between
NGOs/POs and beneficiaries was low, and that NGOs/POs bore an extra cost in implementing
CMED activities.



* The NGO-Beneficiary Assessment showed that micro-entrepreneurs had not significantly
developed capacity to expand production, improve product quality or extend marketing
activities over time. For example, only about 32% of surviving micro-entrepreneurs made
capital investments to expand production. Entrepreneurs typically experienced a one time level
improvement, moving from one low level of income to a slightly higher level, and then
remaining at that level. The micro-enterprises did not grow and expand over time.
19.   HRD Fund: The objective of the HRD fund was only partially satisfied.
*  The social mobilization effort was moderately successful in terms of forming community level
savings groups. NDTF project data shows that approximately 1.1 million low-income
households were mobilized, with beneficiaries organized into about 177,000 small groups
(average 7 members). Average savings rates among group members were approximately 2% of
annual average income, which is a reasonable savings rate for poor individuals.
*  However, savings generated by community small-groups were not adequately utilized for
investment in micro-enterprise promotion and development, as beneficiaries had limited
capacity to exploit profitable investment opportunities. NDTF and NGOs/POs failed to provide
sufficient preparatory training in the selection and devefopment of viable micro-enterprises
appropriate to rural markets, consumer demand and village technologies, due to lack of capacity
in NDTF.
*  There was little progression to the main aim of the component, the development of
entrepreneurial skills and capabilities to enable the poor to run commercially viable micro-
enterprises. This can be partly attributed to the failure of the HRDF activities to provide
adequate training to beneficiaries in basic business tasks like maintenance of accounts,
systematic production of output and active marketing of products. It is also doubtful whether
training alone can create entrepreneurial skills among poor individuals, including the ability to
take calculated risks.
20.   Rural Works Fund: The objectives of the RWF were also only partially satisfied:
*  NDTF project data shows that about 3100 RW projects had commenced, and approximately
2000 had been completed by project closure (a 65% completion rate). NDTF project data
estimated that access to the completed projects was available to about 700,000 families
(approximately 18% of families in Sri Lanka) in poor communities in all parts of the country
except the war affected North.
*  The completed RW projects generated considerable benefits to village communities. The
NGO-Beneficiary Assessment showed that the roads, bridges and culverts constructed
improved access to facilities like schools, health clinics, post offices, banks and shops. They
also improved access to raw materials and inputs for production and markets for outputs. The
irrigation facilities improved the productivity of agricultural activities and increased the supply
of irritable land available. Thus, this component is likely to have had a strong impact in
improving social welfare and reducing poverty.
*  The NGO-Beneficiary Assessment also showed that beneficiary participation in project
selection and site location was high in RW projects that were constructed through NGO
intermediation. Beneficiary approval ratings were, too, were high in RW projects with NGO



- 12-
participation. Beneficiary communities showed their strong support for rural works construction
by supplying about 800,000 unpaid labor days, worth US$2.5 million.
*  According to the SAR, the RWF was expected to generate about 10 million work days of
employment, worth about SLR600 million (equivalent to US$15 million) in 1991 prices.
However, estimates from the NGO-Beneficiary Assessnment and NDTF project records suggest
that only about 3.5 million work days of wage employm[ent, worth about SLR2 10 million
(equivalent to US$5 million) in constant (1991) prices, were actually generated through the
rural works program. The project's financial allocation to RW projects was completely utilized.
Hence, the shortfall in the quantity and value of wage emnployment created can partly be
attributed to cost-ineffective methods of project construction. However, the SAR targets are
also likely to have been over-optimistic and unrealistic.
*  Maintenance arrangements for RW projects were weak. Systematic and regular maintenance
arrangements at village level, based on a community maintenance fund, were generally not
established by NGOs/POs engaged in this component. RW projects constructed by local
government agencies were maintained through the official government maintenance program.
However, many local government agencies have an inaclequate budget for maintenance. The
prospect of medium and long term sustainability of rurael works is moderate.
21.   Nutrition Fund: The nutrition fund was relatively the most successful project component.
*  According to NDTF data NF activities covered 20-25% of the population within the conflict-
free zones of Sri Lanka, and was operational in 18 of the 25 districts. At peak project operation
in 1995-96 about 70 NGOs/POs were involved in nutrition interventions. The beneficiary
participation rate in poor communities was about 89%, leading to an outreach of approximately
700,000 children and 2.7 million mothers. This substantially exceeded the SAR target of
300,000 children and 1 million mothers. This high coverage and significant improvement in
nutrition was praiseworthy.
*  The project developed a set of innovative nutrition interventions to address malnutrition
among young children, and pregnant and nursing mothers. These included nutrition training
and education in baby food preparation, weaning practices, child weight measurement, and
general nutrition and food preparation. These nutrition training and education activities were
also specifically targeted to the poorest members of local communities. Their success may be
largely attributed to the focus on behavioral causes of malnutrition.
*  Data from the NGO-Beneficiary Assessment showed that the nutrition training and education
received by mothers in activities like baby food preparation and overall nutrition were utilized
by a majority of beneficiaries. However, women stated that they encountered difficulty in
preparing balanced diets due to high food prices and low income.
During the later years of the project the coverage and scope of the In-Depth Program was
limited due to funding constraints. NDTF was unwilling to release resources to implement the
advanced, community action stages of the In-Depth apptoach. Also, GOSL was unable to
produce and distribute adequate quantities of the nutrition supplement, Triposha, which was
expected to play an important role in the In-Depth program. In consequence, this program was
discontinued in 1996. Instead, the government funds for Triposha production should have been



- 13 -
allocated to assist implement the activities of the In-Depth nutrition program, which has a strong
positive effect on nutrition improvements in local communities.
* GOSL estimates show that the prevalence of malnutrition in the country has been declining over
time [Figure 2]. The project's NF activities were likely to have been an important cause of this
declining trend in malnutrition.
Figure 2. Trends in Malnutrition
40%      3%
38%- -
36%4
e 34%-
32%-
1987                           1993                           1995
Sources: Department of Census and Statistics, Ministry of Plan Implementation
22.    The Employment and Poverty Policy Unit (EPPU) and the Poverty Monitoring Unit
(PMU): The EPPU and PMU were only partially successful in meeting their objective of
strengthening government capacity to develop national policies for poverty alleviation and
employment generation.
- The EPPU and PMU implemented a number of studies5 on poverty and employment policy
research. They provided information useful for GOSL to analyze critical factors related to labor
market functioning and identify interrelationships between poverty and unemployment. The
studies were used in policy formulation by a number of government ministries and agencies.
*  However, efforts to formulate performance indicators and methodologies to track poverty failed
to be integrated systematically into government poverty programs. Policy research findings
were also not fed consistently into macroeconomic policy formulation and resource allocation
for poverty reduction, primarily due to the lack of formal mechanisms to ensure such a process.
23.    GenderAims: The gender aims of the project were only partially met. While the social
mobilization efforts contributed to enhancing women's self-reliance and bargaining power, the
impact on increasing women's incomes through micro-enterprise development was limited.
* The social mobilization efforts contributed to improving women's self-reliance and
bargaining power. In a 1995 beneficiary survey, 82% of female beneficiaries interviewed
The studies by EPPU and PMU are included in Annex 6.



- 14 -
reported that the project had conferred positive benefits in their lives, with 65% identifying
economic gains, 78% referring to improved social networks and bargaining power, and 86%
indicating that their awareness levels and self-reliance had been increased.
*  However, the entrepreneurship training provided to women was inadequate to enable them to
increase incomes through micro-enterprise development. The 1997, NGO-Beneficiary
Assessment revealed that only about one third of women participants who received credit
were able to operate successful micro-enterprises. The majority of female micro-
entrepreneurs who survived had family business connections which facilitated their activities.
24.   Institutional Development: The institutional development objectives of the project were
met only to a negligible extent. There was limited implementation of activities specified in the
SAR to build the capacity of NDTF and NGOs/POs to understand the dynamics of poverty and
implement more effective poverty programs in the field.
*  Limited resources were invested by NDTF to strengthen the conceptual and management
skills of NGOs/POs through training in group formation, credit management, management
information systems, accounting and auditing. This was partly because NDTF failed to
understand its role in facilitating NGO/PO activities, and partly because NDTF lacked
capacity to provide such training.
* NGOs/POs were not provided formal opportunities to share lessons-learned with each other
through NDTF sponsored workshops or through study visits abroad to learn best practices, as
envisaged in the SAR.
25.    Targeting: The project's targeting outcomes were relatively satisfactory. Evidence from
the RWF shows that about 76% of direct beneficiaries fell below the project income cutoff line of
SLR. 1,500(US$25) per household in 1991 prices, while 350%D were unemployed youth and
unskilled laborers. Estimates of household consumption levels in the 1997 NGO-Beneficiary
Assessment show that the per capita average consumption expenditure of project beneficiaries was
SLR506 (US$8 per month) in 1997, under the per capita consumption level of SLR705 (US$12)
per month estimated to be the poverty line at 1996 constant prices.
Factors Facilitating Project Implementation
26.   Participatory Approach: The use of participatory strategies in mobilizing low-income
communities, a novel approach for Sri Lanka prior to the project, contributed to many positive
results on the ground. Traditional development approaches in Sri Lanka, as elsewhere had been
top-down and bureaucratic, leaving little opportunity for the poor to voice their opinions, identify
their priorities and participate in their own development. Tapping the productive potential of the
poor through participatory processes of beneficiary consultation and mobilization enhanced some
project outcomes. Although the project fell short of meeting its full potential, the participation of
the poor in developing their communities has laid an important and lasting foundation for
subsequent efforts in poverty alleviation.
27.   Gender Mainstreaming: The project struggled with gender mainstreaming in its initial
years. However, field experience in the later years revealed that ensuring women's participation
had actually improved program effectiveness. With emerging field evidence of the high levels of



- 15 -
enthusiasm and responsiveness from women (e.g. in nutrition and social mobilization activities),
NGOsIPOs began to develop more gender-sensitive strategies.
28.   NGO Networking and Direct Dialogue with IDA Supervision Teams: Around the mid-
term review of the project implementation period, with a change in Bank supervision strategy,
there was significant emphasis on establishing a direct dialogue between IDA, NDTF and
NGOs/POs. These consultations provided an opportunity for Bank supervision teams to better
understand field implementation difficulties and to permit the NGOs to voice their concerns. The
participation of NDTF staff in these consultations facilitated a two-way flow of information.
These consultative workshops enabled the resolution of long outstanding problems regarding
administrative procedures, financial disbursements and field constraints faced by NGOs/POs.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The prospects for project sustainability are limited. The principle of public financing of
poverty alleviation activities through a flexible, semi-government apex body has been abandoned by
GOSL. The apex organization (NDTF) was closed by GOSL with effect from the end of December,
1997. Instead, GOSL has adopted a policy of direct government implementation of poverty
alleviation activities through its flagship Samurdhi poverty alleviation program. The major focus of
Sanurdhi is the delivery of a consumption-based grant, not production oriented economic activities
like micro-credit or rural infrastructure development. Hence, GOSL has also reverted to the
principle of poverty alleviation mainly through consumption-based grants, reducing emphasis on
production oriented anti-poverty measures.
30.    However, there are some ways in which the project has produced sustainable results:
* The prospects for continued NGO involvement in poverty alleviation activities are sound. The
NGO-Beneficiary Assessment showed that NGOs,/POs have generally expanded their access to
sources of funding from external sources (bilateral and private donors), and utilize these
resources to sustain their involvement in micro-credit, social mobilization and nutrition
programs for the poor.
31.   The prospects for sustainability of project outcomes also depends on the time lag between
the conclusion of the first project and the commencement of a second project to continue poverty
alleviation activities. In order to make best use of the foundation laid by the first project, a
continued poverty program, based on careful analysis of the needs of the poor, and containing
rational economic interventions to support and strengthen market processes, would be useful. The
foundation for nutrition interventions laid by the first poverty project should also be exploited by the
proposed second poverty project with a carefully designed nutrition component.



-16 -
Box 2: The Samurdhi Program
t ~wdi is dhftshp        ilyi#a prgra   f the g0V0rnmen4thisrora prvide =assstne t
A   sbW th tpr                                           -                t 
4fn  of a 1#e na~wit                mlf*mi4             -      fd            §ThX Z~ tot
6 uS$13 mfha r          . .S$ 7   i                         4,fg
niL3ofD.                           .-$,,|r-- wb44   s4a- 
ltco staings trd auis* co       4WA
*krfnm abxut 66 00                             .3t 
A)n economn 4o aWp
houeholsing a     oi _    *       g
pw'ccw as                                   ' ' 
be9U$13 mion,                            WC)the     W_ t hi_ _  _ ___
b)A avng adk  crdi s*met *mrhi  aetcw*. iitzi&mri, s
=.4
E.  BANK PERFORANCE
Project Identification
32.    Bank performance in tertms of project identification was partially satisfactory. IDA correctly
identified the need for a set of poverty alleviation activities that would expand employment
opportunities and improve incomes among the poor, and reduce malnutrition among women and
children. The focus on an innovative, production-oriented poverty strategy as compared to Sri
Lanka's previous focus on consumption-oriented poverty programs was appropriate. In addition,
the project was consistent with the objectives of the Sri Lanka CAS of promoting poverty reduction
through macroeconomic adjustment generating broad-based economic growth, accompanied by
specific poverty alleviation programs targeted to assist the poor.
33.    However, the complexity of the process of implementing poverty programs through NGOs
operating under an apex organization, like NDTF, was badly under-estimated. In particular, there
was inadequate appreciation of the extent of lead time, capacity building, institutional strengthening
and technical inputs required.



- 17-
Project Preparation
34.    Project preparation was partially satisfactory. The Government commitment to working in
partnership with NGOs to alleviate poverty was over-estimated. For example, in 1991, the few
NGOs that had the capacity to provide wide coverage (Sarvodaya in particular) were directly under
investigation from the government commission, and as such, unwilling to participate in project
activities. Subsequently, the project got off to a start with disbursement levels falling well below
expected rates. However, despite the adverse consequences for the project, the government
continued the investigations for a three year period.
35.    Preparatory work on the organizational structure, administrative functioning and staff/skills
mix of NDTF was inadequate. During the first three years of project implementation, the
organizational structure of NDTF turned out to be inefficient and rigid, causing delays in the
disbursement of funds. By the mid-point of the project, drastic revisions to the organizational
structure had to be made, agreed upon between GOSL and the Bank at the mid-term review.
Project Appraisal
36.    The Bank's project appraisal has been rated unsatisfactory. It did not detect some of the
weaknesses in project identification and preparation. The assessment of risk in relation to potential
changes in government policy was incorrectly assessed. Moreover, the SAR had not identified
measurable performance indicators by which the project could measure its progress.
37.    The size of the project loan was large for the absorptive capacity of the country. The total
amount of the project (US$85.0 million) could not be disbursed during the project life, despite
extension by a year. The implementation plan was ambitious and did not provide adequate time for
capacity building in NDTF and NGOs. The troubled relationship between GOSL and NGOs/POs,
and limited NDTF and NGO capacity contributed to low disbursement levels during the first three
years of the project life. Consequently, the project was classified as a problem project by World
Bank from May 1995 to November 1996, and about US$10 million (SDR6.5 million) was canceled
from the credit as of December 1996.
38.    The appraisal process correctly identified the risk of political interference in project
activities. However, the measures proposed to minimize such risk by: (i) establishing an
autonomous Board of Management and NGO advisory committee; (ii) enforcing transparent
eligibility criteria for NGOs/POs; and (iii) applying stringent performance criteria, were show to be
developed and applied. In the end, these measures were insufficiently implemented during the
project life.
Project Supervision
39.    The Bank's project supervision was partially satisfactory. Early Bank supervision missions
did not always fully identify and assess the gravity of key problems affecting project performance.
However, these supervision missions did succeed in identifying and remedying the major constraint
to project implementation in the early years, the lack of NGO participation. Problems associated
with project administration and internal management were addressed particularly during and after
the joint IDA-GOSL-KfW Mid-Term review mission in May 1995. Subsequently, NDTF was able



-18 -
to disburse funds, from 1994 onwards, at a rate fast enough to clear up part of the backlog created
by delays in the first three years.
40.   At the level of specific project components, Bank supervision missions provided advice and
technical assistance to strengthen and expand the range of activities implemented.
*  The NF, for example, was strengthened to enable the nutrition education and awareness
programs to be extended from a target of I million people to approximately 3.4 million people,
about 20-25% of the population living outside the war-affected North-Eastern Province.
*  Advice was provided to the RWF to strengthen the pace of rural works projects by improving
mechanisms for project selection, site location and project construction.
41.   GOSL was critical of the high turnover in Bank task managers (TMs) before 1995, with
four different TMs managing the project during its life-time. The changeover of TMs affected
consistency of policy and continuity of approach.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.   Borrower performance was only partially satisfactory. To its credit, GOSL complied with
the project covenants, procurement rules, provision of technical assistance, and commissioning
studies on poverty policy. However, some actions by GOSL and NDTF hindered project success.
* The climate of mistrust and fear at project inception caused by the government's NGO
Commission of Inquiry, and its continuation until 1993, discouraged NGO participation in
project activities. The subsequent shift in policy away from NGO participation after 1994,
when the new government assumed office, further distanced the NGO sector. The appointment
of an NGO commission by the new government in 1995 further alienated NGOs.
* The failure of the NDTF's Board of Trustees to contain a balanced representation of NGO,
private and governmental sector members, as specified in the SAR, lowered its credibility and
weakened its autonomy. NGOs/POs complained that NDTF was managed like a government
institution, playing a controlling rather than a facilitating role.
43.   Limited staff skills within NDTF prevented full understanding of the complexity ofthe
project and the mix of interventions required to achieve project objectives. For instance, in the early
years of project implementation, NDTF failed to develop formal contracts with NGOs/POs clearly
specifying terms, targets and deliverables. NDTF also failed to develop a well-defined and
objective monitoring system, particularly in the early years of project implementation. After the
Joint GOSL-Bank Mid-Term Project Review, project indicators and measures developed by the
GOSL and Bank supervision teams were agreed upon with NDTF and served to improve the
project's monitoring activities. However, the monitoring and evaluation activities were
established too late in the project life.



- 19-
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.     The project outcome was unsatisfactory. The achievement of major objectives was limited,
and well below the potential of the project. However, this project was complex and its
implementation took place during a turbulent and changing political period in Sri Lanka, which
included a continued civil war in the eastern and northern provinces.
45.     Quantitative Achievements: Achievement of quantitative targets was mixed. As shown in
Table 2, some targets were achieved, especially in the NF, while other targets fell short.
Table 2: Achievement of SAR Quantitative Targets
Project Component                   SAR Target                        Project Achievement
Credit Fund (CF)     *   175,000 people to obtain credit          *   117,000 people obtained credit
*   50% participants to be women            *   57% women participants
*   70% on time repayment by borrowers      *   83% on time repayment by
borrowers
Rural Works Fund     *   10 million work days of employment       *   3.5 million labor days
(RWF)                *   SLR600 million (US$10 million) wage .    *   SLR250 million (US$4
income                                      million) wage income
*   45,000 people to benefit from long-term  *   data unavailable on long-term
employment                                  employment
Human Resource       No specific targets                          *   360,000 households mobilized
Development Fund                                                  *   58,000 small groups
(HRDF)                                                                established
*   SLRI20 million (US$19
million) savings generated
Nutrition Fund       *   Improved nutrition among I million children   *   Improved nutrition among 2.7
*   Improved nutrition among 300,000 pregnant   million children
and nursing mothers                     *   Improved nutrition among
*   1,800 volunteers to be trained on nutrition  700,000 mothers
*   75% reduction in wasting                *   10,000 volunteers trained
*   25% reduction in low-birth-weight babies  *   15,000 mothers and NGO staff
trained
*   57% of project sites showing
over 25% decrease in low-
birth weight
*   16% reduction in low-birth
weight
46.     Qualitative Achievements: Qualitative achievements made by the project have been
partially satisfactory. The project has:
*   increased the presence and capabilities of NGOs working in rural villages to assist the poor;
*   increased social capital and improved social networks among the poor;
*   mobilized low-income communities to improve nutritional status among young children and
mothers, and enhanced local knowledge base by educating village volunteers and poor mothers;
and
*   promoted participatory (as compared to previous top-down) approaches responsive to
beneficiary needs.
.
47.    The nutrition interventions had a considerable impact on the ability of low-income
communities to understand nutrition problems, mobilize community efforts to address these



- 20 -
problems and encourage behavioral changes to improve nutritional status. About 17,000 village
volunteers trained under the project developed adequate knowledge and skills to work with the
poorest mothers and young children in village communities. Their efforts, together with those of
NGOs/POs, have enhanced community awareness of the gravity of the nutritional problem, and
prompted communities to engage in a collaborative strategy to identify nutritional priorities and
implement appropriate remedies.
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
48.    GOSL has expressed interest in a follow-up poverty alleviation project which would be
supportive of and build on its Samurdhi poverty program. While the Bank is committed to funding
programs for poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka, the nature and scope of such programs are yet to be
determined. GOSL has organized a consultative process, consisting of key government officials,
donors and local consultants, to undertake analytical work on poverty related sector issues. The
Bank is supporting this process through its economic sector work-on poverty and support for an
integrated survey and analysis. This work is expected to provide the foundation for a follow-up
poverty project.
1.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49.    There are several important lessons to be drawn from this project.
a) Implementing poverty alleviation activities through NGOs operating under an apex semi-
government organization is an extremely complex and demanding task The managerial,
administrative, research and technical skills and competencies required are formidable.
Substantial lead time and resource investment would be required to develop institutional
capacity to ensure that project implementing agencies and NGOslPOs function efficiently.
b) The apex organization through which assistance is channeled to NGOs/POs needs to have a
sound governance structure, and a high degree of autonomy from government. Project
activities suffered because the NDTF was perceived as politically linked to the Janasaviya
poverty alleviation program of the earlier government. Also, the NDTF was located under the
Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Board of Management consisted mainly of public
servants, so that administrative and financial procedures tended to be strict. It should
recognized, however, that in spending public funds, certain rules have to be followed in order to
achieve accountability and prevent misappropriation and waste. This was perceived as
bureaucratic by some NGOs/POs. It is important that an apex organization be highly
autonomous, so that it can play an effective facilitating role among NGOs/POs. It is also
important that NGOs/POs be given considerable decision-making power in program
implementation. However, this has to be achieved within the context of adequate financial
accountability and transparency.
c) The staff of an apex organization like NDTF needs to possess experience with and respectfor
NGOs. This was mainly lacking in the project. NGOs encountered considerable problems with
NDTF staff members because the latter lacked experience of, and respect for, NGO activity.
For instance, during one period of project implementation NDTF refused to allow NGOs to
utilize funds obtained from NDTF to pay NGO staff salaries, although these NGO staff
members were engaged in implementing poverty alleviation activities under the NDTF trust



- 21 -
funds. There were also periods when project components were facilitated by the presence of
individual NDTF staff members who respected and sympathized with NGO/PO activities. For
example, the success of activities under the nutrition fund were partly due to the existence of a
committed, well-informed Nutrition Fund management. Subsequently, after the management of
the nutrition fund changed in late 1995, the quality of activities deteriorated.
d) The economic rationale and technicalfeasibility ofproject components need to be analyzed
and developed with care. The HRDF failed to provide the poor with adequate technical skills
to undertake micro-enterprise activities successfully, as envisaged in the SAR. However, it is
highly questionable whether successful entrepreneurship skills, including taking calculated
risks, can be developed through training. Also, the demand for employment among the poor
was mainly for wage employment, not micro-enterprise opportunities. Action to remove
constraints to the growth of wage employment opportunities, especially in off-farm activities,
may be a more effective strategy to assist the poor than the supply of credit to promote micro-
enterprises.
e) Pilot projects, as a basis for testing strategies and approaches, can play a central role in
facilitating overall project success. The project could haye benefited greatly from a pilot phase
at project inception which would have helped identify best strategies as well as field constraints.
The project SAR recommended that implementation models be developed and that networking
among NGOs/POs be supported. However, in practice there was little support for such
activities. Piloting would have provided valuable experience and models, as well as the
opportunity to identify possible shortcomings in design and field constraints early.
Jo High quality research studies, including beneficiary studies, are essential to ensure efficient
project implementation and achievement of objectives. The quality of project implementation
would have been substantially strengthened if a high quality management information system
(MIS) had been established early in the project life. A MIS should contain sound baseline
survey data, realistic trends and targets to be achieved, and clearly specified input, process,
output and impact indicators.
g) Importance of exploiting synergy effects. Synergy between the four trust fund components,
rural works, nutrition, human resource development and micro-credit, needed to be exploited to
derive optimal social benefits from the project. This aim was partially achieved by some large
NGOs/POs, with adequate capacity, which implemented all four project components: rural
works, nutrition, human resource development and micro-credit. However, the aim was not
achieved by other smaller NGOs/POs specializing in one or two activities. Such NGOs/POs
should have been related by NDTF to other NGOs/POs operating in complementary areas so
that synergy effects could have been exploited through their combined activities. Unfortunately,
the NDTF component trust funds operated relatively independently of each other, so that
synergy between project components could not be effectively exploited.
h) Importance of establishing a sound institutionalframework. between NGOs/POs, central
government ministries and local government authorities for rural works projects NGOs/POs
need to work closely with government ministries, local government and beneficiary
communities in selecting, planning and prioritizing rural works projects so that they serve the
needs of communities efficiently and equitably, are cost effective to construct and adequate
arrangements are made for future maintenance. The project encountered difficulties in
arranging local government maintenance for rural works constructed through NGO/PO and



- 22 -
community participation because such projects were not included in the relevant govemment
ministry and local authority work programs. Careful planning and coordination of rural works
projects, so that facilities constructed by NGOs/POs and beneficiary communities were included
in government work programs, would have improved future maintenance arrangements.
i) Importance ofproviding training to NGOs/POs in poverty alleviation activities Project
implementation was hampered by the inability of NDTF to provide adequate training to
NGOs/POs. Better training would have strengthened the ability of NGOs/POs to implement
activities, especially in the HRD component. However, it should be noted that the Nutrition
Fund, under one of the managers, provided training in child care, nutrition and agriculture. This
considerably helped to build capacity in NGOs/POs and partly accounted for the greater success
of this component.
j)  Most NGO/POs administrative andfinancial systems did not comply with Bank-required
accountability and audit regulations. The complexity of this problem was insufficiently
recognized during project preparation. NDTF's original ifour operational divisions adopted
compartmentalized approaches because of weaknesses in project design, political climate and
the complexity of building institutional capacity.
k) Project implementation and supervision experience has shown that the task of capacity
building among NGOs/POs, to enable them to foster viable micro-enterprises among the
poor, especially by assisting in the creation of entrepreneurial skills and sound management
practices, is a difficult and time-consuming process. Also, enterprises need an energetic and
business-friendly environment to succeed. This environment cannot be created by the
government alone but is an energetic and complex mix of private and public sector interaction.
') NDTF (government institution; insufficiently autonomous; and with a government-
dominated Board of Trustees) correctly followed up on its goal ofpromoting more
accountability and transparency in how projectfunds were spent at NGO/PO and beneficiary
levels. But in this process it emphasized too much its "controlling" as compared to its desired
"facilitating" role. This led to delays and confusion in project implementation among
NGOs/POs. As a result NGOs/POs became reluctant to try out innovative activities if these did
not appear to fit into NDTF's bureaucratic framework
m) The Government's broad strategy for poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka underwent a major
shift in emphasis mid-way through the projects lifespan. Originally, under this project, the
strategy of delivering assistance to the poor through NGOs/POs was given a prominent role by
the Govemment. In this context, the NDTF was planned as an apex organization to provide
assistance to NGOs/POs to implement poverty alleviation programs. After the new government
assumed office in August 1994 the emphasis of the overa]ll poverty alleviation strategy changed.
The Samurdhi poverty program gave prominence to the strategy of delivering assistance to the
poor directly through government channels, (the Samurdhi Niyamakas), rather than through
NGOs/POs. NDTF ceased to play an important role in the new poverty alleviation strategy.



- 23 -
PART IIa: GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
A.  INTRODUCTION
50.   At the time of project preparation, Sri Lanka was facing serious socio-political and
economic problems amidst rising unemployment and widespread poverty. As the economic
growth was slow and sluggish, generation of productive employment remained restricted. This
high rate of unemployment notably among the youth and increasing poverty among other things
were seen as the major causes of youth unrest and civil strife witnessed during the latter part of
the 1980s.
51.   In July 1989, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) requested the International
Development Association (IDA) to provide technical assistance to prepare a poverty alleviation
and employment creation project with possible IDA financial assistance for its implementation.
52.   The UNDP financed the project preparation activities of the IDA Mission in two phases.
During the first phase, the Mission identified several gaps ini information required, made an
attempt to fill these gaps by commissioning a number of local consultants during the January-
March period of 1990 and prepared an Interim Report which was submitted to the GOSL and
UNDP in Colombo. The second phase of the project preparation Mission commenced in March
1990, and lasted till the end of 1990. From March to April of that year, the Preparation Mission
worked in Sri Lanka and from May to June the Mission prepared the Draft Report in Washington
which was approved in late 1990 for implementation. The project implementation commenced in
1991.
B.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
Objectives
53.   The Government of Sri Lanka proposed to implement a project which sought to increase
employment and income earning opportunities among the poor and the unemployed youth. The
strategy for such a project emphasized:
*  strengthening and expansion of existing institutional capacity to serve the poor and
the unemployed;
*  improvement of credit supply and other services to facilitate self-employment and
micro-enterprise development through group-based lending and entrepreneurship
development;
*  asset creation, income generation and wage employment through the expansion of
rural works;
*  nutritional interventions to reduce malnutrition among children and pregnant women
and nursing mothers; and
*  policy research and program formulation to take greater account of issues of poverty
and unemployment in overall growth policies and public investment projects.



- 24 -
54.   The project was intended to develop a strong institutional infrastructure which would
assist the removal of development bottle-necks in rural areas with a view to fostering the
productive needs of:
*  landless and near landless households;
*  small and marginal farmers;
*  female-headed households;
*  rural unemployed youth; and
*  malnourished children, pregnant women and nursing mothers.
55.   It was expected that the above would enhance the capacity to meet the challenge of
poverty and youth unemployment facing Sri Lanka.
Components
56.   The project consisted of five components: a) Credit and Micro-Enterprise Development
(CMED) Fund; b) Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF); c) Rural Works Fund (RWF);
d) Nutrition Fund (NF); and e) Employment Policy Plannipg Unit (EPPU).
57.   The Credit and Micro-Enterprise Development Fund (CMED) would extend loans to
government agencies, banks, co-operatives and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for on-
lending for micro-enterprises and other productive purposes to poor households. Significant
levels of support to these partner organizations were envisaged in the form of term loans for on-
lending. The project would provide US$28 million through selected intermediary organizations
for loans to be granted to some 175,000 borrowers over a 3-5 year period. Additional loans
would be made out of savings mobilized or through other donor funds.
58.   The Human Resource Development Fund would provide grants to meet the costs of
human resource development and institution building. This would include the costs of social
mobilization by, and technical assistance to the POs receiving Credit Fund support. The
estimated budget of the Social Fund was US$10 million.
59.   The Rural Works Fund would finance employment-generating rural infrastructure,
following strategies of employment creation through large-scale rural public works and local
community involvement in asset creation and utilization, strengthening the capacity of local level
institutions, farmer and village organizations and NGOs to undertake and manage rural
construction activities. The rural works program was to operate mainly in the South and Central
parts of the country, outside the major metropolitan and plantation areas but would include small
towns.
60.   The Rural Works Fund would operate through grants for corrective maintenance of major
irrigation facilities and rehabilitation of minor irrigation facilities, maintenance of minor roads
and construction of village access trails and footpaths, watershed protection and community
forestry, village water supply and sanitation, and inland fisheries. The Rural Works budget was
estimated at US$38.2 million.



- 25 -
61.   The Nutrition Component would build on an ongoing IDA-financed pilot nutrition
project intended to reduce malnutrition in children under 3 years of age and reduce rates of
wasting, stunting and maternal malnutrition. This cost component was estimated to be US$9
million.
62.   The policy component would require establishment of an Employment Policy Planning
unit within the Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation to analyze the employment
implications of macro-economic policy, sectoral programs and specific projects. The project
would also strengthen the capacity of the Department of Census and Statistics to undertake
household budget surveys.
Implementation Arrangements
The Janasaviya Trust Fund
63.   The project was prepared during a period (1989-90) characterized by youth uprising and
weakening of the civil administration of the Government. During the latter part of the 1 980s, the
southern youth uprising heightened and the normal administrative machinery was seriously
impaired from time to time. However, there was no serious threat to genuine NGO activities. In
this context it was thought both useful and practicable to harness the experience and the linkages
establish by NGOs.
64.   Given this background the Poverty Alleviation Project was to be based on a novel
participatory concept hitherto not tried out in Sri Lanka. The distinguishing characteristic of this
approach was to deliver assistance to the poor, through the non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) rather than through the existing government agencies. The advantages of such an
approach were:
* It promoted wider participation of the community;
*  It was more flexible and less subject to bureaucratic control; and
*  It was cost effective.
65.   However, by 1990, after the Government succeeded in restoring law and order in the
country, there was some re-thinking on its part of the appropriateness of the participatory concept
promoted by the donors. The decision to link the project to the existing Janasaviya Program by
adopting its name among other things, represented an attempt to accommodate the Government
concerns in this regard. There was an implicit understanding that the two poverty alleviation
programs, the Janasaviya Program and the Poverty Alleviation Project assisted by the IDA would
coexist-exist and perhaps complement each other.
66.   It was also considered necessary to set up a separate institution with sufficient autonomy
and flexibility to implement the project. Accordingly, a body with the legal status of a Trust
Fund, the Janasaviya Trust Fund, to be administered by a Board consisting of members
representing the Government, the NGO community and other sections of society was formed.
This was later renamed National Development Trust Fund (NDTF).



- 26 -
C.  PROBLEMS FACED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORY
FACTORS
67.   The overall implementation of the project has not been up the anticipated standards as
stipulated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). In fact, the project had been declared as a
"problem project" by the 1995 Mid-Term Project Implementation Review Mission based on
"performance rating". A "Problem Project" situation arose because the project had not gone into
base-line data in detail and developed monitoring indicators and methods. However, a review by
a supervision mission 1 8months later had concluded the project as "doing well".
68.   Among the perceived problems are the following:
* Targets set in the SAR are far too ambitious. Some of them are almost unattainable.
* There appears to be a gross over-estimation of the capacity of the NGO in operation
in Sri Lanka at the time of project preparation.
* Supply driven approach and pressure for rapid fund disbursement in an environment
governed by rigorous financial responsibility to Plarliament and to the Government.
The administrative culture in the country was such that the civil service was
cautious in the use of state's finances.
-  Deficiencies in the operational plan, and the absence of a clear hierarchical plan
which could lead to the emergence of an effective project implementation process
from the very beginning.
*  Emergence of ideological differences between the NGO partners and the NDTF
managers from time to time, particularly during the initial phase of project
implementation.
* Absence of precisely laid down criteria to select NGOs as partners.
* An overemphasis on central, Colombo-based NGOs as opposed to regionally based
NGOs.
* The adverse reaction of some NGOs to the appointment of a Presidential Committee
1994 to inquire into various acts of commission and omission on the part of some
partner organizations. This was in turn due to host of representations received by
the Government alleging acts of mismanagement and fraud.
*  A degree of compartmentalization that occurred in the management of the project at
the NDTF Headquarters.
*  Lack of an adequate monitoring and evaluation systems built into the plan as well as
the subsequent failure on the part of the executing agency and the Partner
Organizations (POs) to develop those systems. This was primarily due to the lack
of a usage of authentic base-line information collected in the country of
implementation, that is, in Sri Lanka.
*  Lack of a proper Management Information System (MIS) and a Financial
Information System (FIS).
*  The inability of the NDTF to build up and improve the top management, as
envisaged in the project document.
*  Perceived lack of coherence in the recommendations made by different visiting
mission from the World Bank. This was mainly dlue to frequent changes of task
managers.



- 27 -
D.  STRENGTHS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
69.   Despite the inherent weaknesses of the project and implementational defects set out
above, it was not without notable achievements. Field investigations amply demonstrated that at
least in a limited number of localities the project has shown that it was able to minimize some of
the in-built rigidities in the government machinery and make them work satisfactorily with
divergent institutions, agencies and organizations including some NGOs to reach the poor,
organize them and assure empowerment of them in their poverty alleviation efforts. The Trust
Fund has been able to instill to an extent a pro-poor culture in those localities.
70.   Though fragmented, there was clear evidence in many localities that the Project had been
able to mobilize the ultimate beneficiaries through the NGOs/POs, change their attitudes and gear
them towards economic development in a competitive economic environment taking away the
welfare notion out of their minds.
71.   There was convincing evidence which surfaced in many field situations that the poor,
when socially mobilized and induced to form into small groups of their choice have been capable
of saving and investing their savings (however small) for productive activities not only enhancing
their income but also providing wage employment at least for a few others.
72.   The project has contributed significantly towards confidence building and capacity
enhancement of poor women. In well functioning POs, the women groups were found to be
cohesive, disciplined and willing to help each other when they were mobilized and induced to
form into compatible groups. The majority of the project participants being women, they
demonstrated a better promise than men in saving and using borrowed fund for productive
purposes elevating their economic and social status with increased capacity in the family decision
making process. Some of those who have entered the program are now holding positions in the
community based organizations and improved their public speaking capabilities, articulation and
leadership qualities. It is of particular interest to note that most of these poor beneficiaries have
had an introduction to the banking habit having savings passbooks and learning to deposit and
borrow funds like other commercial bank customers.
73.   The rural works program has created assets at the grassroots level which has resulted in
appreciation in land values; improved access facilitating the marketing of products; short-term
employment projects enhanced production through improved minor irrigation facilities in
agricultural regions, notably in the Dry Zone; increased mobility and quality of life etc.
74.   Although the project cannot be considered a total success, the World Bank Evaluation
Mission that visited in November 1996 highlighted the following:
*  Financial Management (of the NDTF) had improved control and accountability
mechanisms, including POs who were now in place;
* Internal cost-efficiency indicators of the project were very satisfactory;
*  Impact at beneficiary level was very positive;
*  63% of the credit beneficiaries had successful results;
*  The recovery rate of CPOs for the NDTF was 97% (in 1996);
*  The HRDF had benefited 347,770 beneficiaries in 57,597 groups in 245 Divisional
Secretariat Divisions;



- 28 -
*  The Rural Works Fund has completed over 2,000 small projects reaching over
500,000/- of the poorest families. The material labor ratio is 55/45, with 40% female
participation providing over 5.5 million person days of temporary wage employment;
*  The "In-Depth Nutrition Method" had proved to be successful;
*  The Nutrition Project had reached out to over 5,000 GNDs creating awareness of
mothers in maintaining a good feeding schedule for small children, the importance of
careful early childhood development, use of locally available nutrition food
resources to feed children, providing a balanced diet as far as possible and the
importance of overall family health and sanitation;
*  The average incidence of malnutrition at project sites had been reduced from 30% in
1995 to 25% in 1996 and the average incidence of low birth weight had declined
from 19% to 16% at the project sites;
75.   Several studies have shown that accessibility accorded to credit through the NDTF credit
scheme had created a "credit culture" among beneficiaries making them realize that loans granted
are to be used for the intended purposes. It had also been pointed out that the beneficiaries did
not regard this program as government welfare program and that the poor had begun to look at
this as a qualitatively different type of program.
76.   The joint evaluation mission (GOSL, World Bank and UNDP) report commented that the
"NDTF in time may become an international model for Poverty Alleviation and ..........
institutional building".
E.  MAJOR ISSUES ENCOUNTERED
IDA Project Management
77.   The World Bank Task Managers changed several times during the project life. Thus,
there were four different Task Managers appointed in the first four years of the Project. Such
rapid changes had adverse consequences on continuity from IDA's perspective. Since different
Task Managers emphasized different approaches during the early years, the NDTF received
confusing signals which had an adverse effect on formulation of a clear implementation strategy.
78.   From the point of view of IDA, it was a high priority to ensure that proper accountability
mechanisms for disbursement from NDTF to NGOs/POs and to beneficiaries were installed.
Since these were not clearly identified during project preparation, significant delays were
encountered in the first three years of project implementation. As a result, project disbursements
(as compared to original SAR estimates) remained below expectations.
International Technical Assistance Program
79.   The international technical assistance received by the NDTF often remained
unsatisfactory. Many technical experts placed in the NDTF (four international consultants) were
ineffective in terms of improving the quality of NDTF's activities. In addition to a long-term
consultant commissioned in the first year of the project for human resource development
activities, (in 1991) there were three others recruited between 1993-95 to ; i) help improve
strategies for credit and micro-enterprise development, ii) design and develop training programs;
and iii) design and implement NDTF's monitoring and evaluation activities. Their contribution



- 29 -
failed to develop the technical skills of NDTF staff and NGO/PO s. During this time the
administrative and functional problems existing within NDTF actually aggravated. Being
dissatisfied with the type of technical assistance received, the GOSL decided to discontinue the
services of these consultants in 1995.
80.   The International Technical Assistance Program was designed to improve the quality of
the poverty alleviation program which is essentially multi-disciplinary in nature with a very
strong non-governmental participation in program implementation.
81.   The Project Managers in the Bank were of the view that the Government did not have a
proper mechanism to administer the TA program from Colombo. Their view was that it was
appropriate to handle the program from Washington even though the UNDP was contributing
funds to the international technical support program. Naturally, the UNDP was unhappy with this
suggestion. However, the Government agreed that the TA program be managed by the World
Bank in Washington. The Bank hired a consortium of NGOs, viz: PACT to handle the TA
Program. This arrangement proved to be unsuccessful because the quality of consultants
provided was below the expected standard.
F.  LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
The Design of the Project
82.   There was heavy reliance placed on the capacity of the NGOs/POs to deliver the
project benefits to the target groups. This turned out to be too optimistic. Therefore in future it
may be useful to make a proper assessment of the capacities of such partner organizations before
deciding to enlist their support.
The Size of the Project
83.   By Sri Lankan standards, the total size of the project (US$87.5 million) was large for a
social sector program involving a people based participatory approach. Even under the best
conditions, absorptive capacity problems would have been expected for such a large outlay.
Therefore in future, the size of such project may have to be kept at a manageable level.
The Degree of Professionalism
84.   Poverty is a complex socio-economic phenomenon which requires for its solutions a
multi-pronged approached. Therefore the demands made on the planning an implementation
personnel may be much higher than in the case of normal sectoral programs and projects. It is
necessary to ensure that in future, the professionalism brought in for such project is of the
highest standard.
G.  CONCLUSION
85.   In conclusion, it would be validly stated that the project had both strengths and
weaknesses in conception as well as in implementation. It was a bold attempt at partnership
between the Government and the NGO community to alleviate poverty and deliver certain
services to the poorest sections of the society.



- 30 -
86.   Inherent in the project was also capacity building of the NGOs. Taking an overall view,
it could be said that there were many positive features as well as good results that were clearly
visible. Government and the NGOs have worked together for six years and it cannot be said that
this mutual interaction was substantially negative or unsuccessful. There has been a gradual
understanding and better working relationships established. It is felt that the country would
benefit from building further on the base that has now been established. The refinement of
selection criteria that took place towards the latter part of the project would in the future help to
identify suitable an appropriate NGOs on an objective basis from the very beginning. This in
itself would avoid many problems that arose at the commencement of the current project due to
the lack of such criteria.
87.   Based on the experience of the first Poverty Alleviation Project and also on the current
experiences of the Samurdhi scheme, it is felt that there is considerable scope for a further project
complementary to the existing program using the NGO community as partners along with
government institutions in poverty eradication. It would be possible for the Government and the
Bank to work on identifying the nature, extent and scope of such a project.
88.   The overall implementation of the project has not been up the anticipated standards as
stipulated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). In fact, the project had been declared as a
"problem project" by the 1995 Mid-Term Project Implementation Review Mission based on
"performance rating". "Problem Project" situation arose because the project had not gone into
base-line data in detail and developed monitoring indicators and methods. However, a review by
a supervision mission 18 months later had concluded the project as "doing well".
Contributory Factors for the Problems faced by the Project
* Targets set in the SAR are far too ambitious. Some of them are almost unattainable.
*There appears to be a gross over-estimation of the capacity of the NGO in operation
in Sri Lanka at the time of project preparation .
* Supply driven approach pressing for rapid fund disbursement in an environment
governed by rigorous financial responsibility to Parliament and the Government
ignoring the administrative culture in the country where the civil service is cautious
in the use of state's finances.
* Deficiencies in the operational plan, and the absence of a clear hierarchical plan
which promoted the emergence of a loose project implementation process at the very
beginning.
* Emergence of ideological differences between the NGO partners and the NDTF
managers from time to time particularly during the initial phase of project
implementation.
* Absence of precisely laid down criteria to select NGOs as partners.
* An overemphasis on central Colombo-based NGOs as opposed to small institutional
development cost and regionally based NGOs worked as their agents NGO's in the
regions.
* The adverse reaction of some NGOs to the appointment of a Presidential Committee
1994 to inquire into various acts of commission and omission on the part of some
partner organizations was in turn due to host of representations received by the
Government alleging acts of mismanagement and fraud.



-31 -
*  A degree of compartmentalization that occurred in the management of the project at
the NDTF Headquarters.
*  Lack of an adequate monitoring and evaluation systems built into the plan as well as
the subsequent failure on the part of the executing agency and the POs to develop
those systems primarily due to the lack of a usage of authentic base-line information
collected in the country of implementation, that is, in Sri Lanka.
*  Lack of a proper MIS and a FIS.
*  The inability of the NDTF to build up and improve the top management, as
envisaged in the project document.
*  Perceived lack of coherence in the recommendations made by different visiting
missions from the World Bank. This was mainly due to frequent changes of task
managers.



- 32 -
PART IIb: CO-FINANCIER'S (KfW) CONTRIBUTION
A.  CREDIT COMPONENT
Summary Review
89.   Overall Objective: to contribute to a reduction of unemployment among the poor.
90.   Objectives of the Project: to establish a financially sustainable, productivity-oriented
credit program for the target group (households with monthly incomes less than 1500 SLRs) in
order to promote micro-enterprise development.
91.   Performance: it can be assumed that unemployment has been reduced. As per review of
Coopers & Lybrand, the beneficiaries indicate that 74% of the projects financed from the credits
have been successful. However, the employment effect remained below its potential, as a
revolving utilization of the credit fund has not been achieved due to low recovery rates on the
beneficiaries' level and an in sufficient performance on the organizational level (credit
monitoring) of NDTF and some Credit Partner Organizations (CPOs).
92.   KfW rating (ex-post evaluation): some positive effects on the beneficiary level, but on
the whole not successful.
93.   Agreements between GOSL and KfW:
Financing Agreement on DM15.0 million:         December 20, 1992
Agreement on Cancellation of DM7.0 million:    September 16, 1996
Agreement on Cancellation of DM2.0 million:    September 5, 1997
94.   Final status of disbursements: on September 5, 1997:  DM6.0 million
95.   Credit Partner Organizations:
The following CPOs received loans out of the German Financial Contribution:
CPO                        District              SLRs        Percent
WDF                        Hambantota        53,054,245         30.7
Sarvodaya                  Ratmalana         44,712,245         25.9
TCCS                       Hambantota        19,957,710         11.5
TCCS                       Monaragala        16,298,400          9.4
TCCS                       Kandy             13,975,000          8.1
TCCS                       Galle              6.283,750          3.6
RRDB                       Anuradhapura       3,994,500          2.3
RRDB                       Hambantota         3,798,700          2.2
RRDB                       Polonaruwa         2,610,000          1.5
RRDB                       Nuwara Eliya       2,308,000          1.3



-33 -
CPO                        District              SLRs        Percent
The Finance Company        Colombo            1,998,474          1.1
RRDB                       Monaragala         1,398,000          0.8
Hatton National Bank       Colombo            1,201,900          0.7
RRDB                       Matara              390,000           0.2
RRDB                       Ratnapura           343,100           0.2
RRDB                       Galle               323,500           0.2
RRDB                       Kalutara            300,000           0.2
TOTAL                                       172,937,524        100.0



- 34 -
PART III: STATISTICAL AND PROJECT DATA TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                 E] 1                                               ba
Sector Policies                       :i                                  l                 ] [
Financial Objectives                  El              [Vl                                  E
Institutional Development             El               it               El                 E
Physical Objectives                   111              it                                  El
Poverty Reduction                     El                                El 0I
Gender Issues                         El                                El                 El
Other Social Objectives                a               El               E                  Ia
Environmental Objectives              [E
Public Sector Management              El               E                                   El
Private Sector Development            E                                 El                 El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                        Et                                                   El
Preparation Assistance                El                                                   El
Appraisal                             Cl                        El
Supervision                           E1                                                   El
D. Borrower Performance           Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                           El                        El
Implementation                        E                     --E2
Covenant Compliance                   El                                                   El
E. Assessment of Outcome          Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly Unsatisfactory
a               El               El                 al



- 35 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit/Title              Purpose       Year of Approval   Status    Closing Date
Transportation   November 1990    Disbursing      6/30/98
Cr. 2183
Third Roads
Agriculture       June 91          Disbursing     6/30/98
Cr. 2260
Irrigation Rehabilitation
Water Supply &   December 1992    Disbursing     12/31/98
Cr. 2442                       Sanitation
Community Water Supply &
Sanitation
Finance           April 1993       Disbursing     6/30/99
Cr. 2484
Private Finance Development
Population, Health   March 1997    Disbursing    12/31/02
Cr. 2928                       & Nutrition
Health Services Development
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned      Date Actual/
_______________________________________________________ |        j Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  5/89             6/8/89
Preparation                                                 5/90            6/29/90
Appraisal                                                   10/90          10/29/90
Negotiations                                                 1/91           3/13/91
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                 NA                NA
Board presentation                                          3/91            4/25/91
Signing                                                     5/91             5/8/91
Effectiveness                                                8/91           9/26/9 1
First tranche release (if applicable)                        NA                NA
Mid-Term review (if applicable)                             4/94            4/23/95
Project completion                                        6/30/96           6/30/97
Loan closing                                             12/31/96          12/31/97



- 36 -                                   Page I of 5
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
FY91 FY92 FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  Total
Appraisal Estimate                           -       6.36   9.36   12.1   13.9   15.7   -       -    57.42
Revised Estimate                                     1.49   1.49   4.34   7.01   8.98  14.65   9.98  47.94
Actual                                                  3      0    4.4   7.53   9.55  11.91   1.07  37.46
Appraised Estimate Cumulative                        6.36  15.72  27.82  41.72  57.42  57.42  57.42  57.42
Revised Estimate Cumulative                          1.49   2.98   7.32  14.33  23.31  37.96  47.94  47.94
Actual Cumulative                                       3      3    7.4  14.91  24.47  36.38  38.07  38.07
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate                    47%     0%    36%    54%   61%    -        -      65%
Actual as% of Revised Estimate                      201%    -    101%   107%   106%   81%    11%    78%
Cum. Actual as % of Cum. SAR Estimate                47%    19%   27%    36%    43%    63%    66%    66%
Cum. Actual as % of Cum. Revised Estimate           201%   101%   101%   104%   105%   96%    79%    79%
Date of Final Disbursement: April 21, 1998
A  X  8                                     -      
Appraisal Estimate
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eised Estimate
FY94   FY95   FY96   F
1  -           ==-                   bAp~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apraised Estimate Cumulative
O _ ~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~Revised Estimate Cumulative
FY91    92FY96 FY97
Source: Ministrv of Finance and NDTF



Run Date:   10-Jun-1998                                    WORLD BANK LOAN ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM                                 Report:       LDM1071
Run Time:   10:18AM                                                    Disburements By Fiscal Year                               Page  :
In USD Equivalent
Country:   SRI LANKA                 Paidect:    10368 POVERTY ALLEVIATION                  Loan: IDA 22310             Ccy Of Comn:        XDR
__a                                                           D                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ..
1-Jul-1990    30-Jun-1991                                        0.00                0.00
1ul-1991    30-Jun-1992          3,000,000.00             3,000,000.00               6.57
1-Jul-1992    30-Jun-1993                                 3,000,000.00               6.57
1-Ju1-1993    30-Jun-1994        4,383,189.03             7,383,189.03              16.17
1-JuI-1994    30-Jun-1995        7,529,160.41            14,912,349.44              32.67
14ul-1995    30-Jun-1996         9,554,117.88            24,466,46732               53.60
1-Jul-1996    30-Jun-1997       11,911,350.29            36,377,817.61              79.69
1-Ju1-1997    30-Jun-1998        1,690,718.82            38,068,536A3               83.40
Original Amount            54,344,318.00
Total Amount Disbuned *           38,68,536.43
Total Amount Cancefled             8,700,445.00
Undisbursed Balance *          7,575,336.57
0 '
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Run Date:   10-Jun-1998                               WORLD BANK LOAN ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM                            Report:     LDMl07I
Run Time:  10:22AM                                               Disbursements By Fiscal Year                          Pa   :
In Currency Of Commitment
Counj.  SRILANKA                  Project:   10368 POVERTY ALLEVIATION               Loan: IDA 22310          Cc¶ Of Comm:    XDR
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .      .. ._._. .... .. . . .. .. ...... .. _... . ... ..... . .. ..... ... .. ._ ___.....   ........ .. ...... ....__ . .....  .. .. . . . e_ - - r C
14ul-1990    30-Jun-1991                                    0.00              0.00
l-Jul-1991    30-Jun41992     2,126,845.05           2,126,845.05             6.23
1-4ud1992    30-Jun-1993                             2,126,845.05             6.23
1-Jul-1993    30-un-1994      3,103,878.09           5,230,723.14            15.33
1Ju1-1994    30-Jun-1995      5,037,186.11          10,267,909.25            30.11
1-Jud1995    30-Jun-1996      6,452,167.60          16,720,076.85            49.03
I-Jul-1996    30-Jun-1997     8,424,237.43          25,144,314.28            73.73
14td-1997    30-4un-1998      1,245,759.14          26,390,073.42            77.39
o Orginal Amount          40,600,00000
Total Amount Disbursd          26,390,073.42
Totl Amount Cancelied           6,500,000.00
U Undibu,sed Balanes >        7,709,92658
oAl
en -



-39 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Loan Overview  Report                                      Table 4
Run Date   10-JUN-1998                                                                     Page 4 of 5
Run Time   09:57:01 AM
Rn  IDA     22310  CE       SRI LANKA
Loan Dowc POVERIY ALLEVIATION
Project 10368      POVERTY ALLEVIATION
Approvd Dt      25-APR-1991                         Status Disburswng
Signing Dt     8MAY-1991                        TF Status  Not Applicable
Eff/Deadllne Dt    26-SEP-1991   Eff?  YES          Restritis Dlsbuments Allowed
Closing Dt    31DEC-1997                     Housekeeping Not Done
Appi Deadllne Dt    30-APR- 1998                     comm CcyXDR
Latest Dlsb/         21-APR-1998                           Type IDA
Refund/Recov Dt                                    S    InIIICiIY
Supplir Rule  1     IBRD/IDA MEMBERS
Loan Amt    XDR                   40,600,000.000   (a) Pro-disbursement Bd            34,100,000.000
-  Cancelled Amt                   6500.000.000   (b) Dlsb Up To Amt                  34,100Q0000
+  Net TF Inv Inc                         0.000    (c) TFAS Dlsb Umil                           NA
(d) TF Categ Distrlbuted                     NA
*  Net Loan & Inv Inc             34.1000.000    Les oF Ca)to Dbd abv
Lowest of (a) to td) above
-  TF Contrb Due                            NA       LAS Available                    34,100,.000
-  Fees                                   0.000    - Disbursed                        26390,O73.420
Pro-disbursement Bd            34,100,000.000    - Loan Disbursable Bd               7,709,926.580
* Represents CchltIlzed Chcages,
Front End Fe. or TF Admnn Fee                 Current Undisb Amt 7.709926580
Undislibuted to Catgs                       0.000
Total                     Fre                   Comm
Loan Dlsbursable 8d                7,709.926.580           7,709,926.580                 0.000
- Pro Sign Off Pipeline             518258.220              518,358220                   0.000
- Signe Off PIplp                         0.000                   oc0 o                   o.ooo
a Estimnted Bd                     7.191,568.360           7.191,.568360                 0.000
USD Equivalents                                 Retroactive Amts In    XDR
IDA Odg Amt                    5750000.00 0         R-tro Amt                           0.0
Current Undsb Amt              102319,968.03    - Retro D°0°°°0
Historickd Dkb Ant            38.068.536.430    Retro U    re                          0.000



- 40 -
Table 4
" - 'nrbd E 8wW_ _                             Page 5 of 5
Integrated Controllees Systems   O
Proviing Wodd Dank Informaion to the Wordd
Loan Stus I Cateiy Recap I Contracts I Spci_ Amounts I Paid Withdrawals
Rejected Withdrawals I Application Pideline I S=ecial Commitments I Cancellations I Statement of Loan
Project: SRI LANKA -- POVERTY                                                   Project 1D: 10368
ALLEVIATION
Category Recap Data for Credit Number: 22310
As of 09-JUN-1998
Number of Categories: 6
Display Amts in USD
Category              Category Description               Undisb XDR            Disb XDR
.1           LSUBLOANS PART A. 1                                1,740,592.22         5,639,407.78
2             GOODS                                               720,212.94         1,279,787.06
_3_           WORKS                                             3,926,372.55         8,373,627.45
4             CONSULTANTS' SERV. &                              3,306,133.93         9,113,866.07
SA__*    REVOLVING FUND                                        -1,983,385.06         1,983,385.06
UNALL         UNALLOCATED                                               0.00                0.00
Totals (for all 6 Categories)|    7,709,926.581       26,390,073.42
U? Exgort Data to Excel
Disclaimer: The information provided is for your convenience and does not replace the World Bank official reports and
statements.



Table 5. Key Performance Indicators by Component
Objectives per Fund                                      Indicators                                                  Performance measure
Credit Fund
*   make credit available to POs for on-lending to the poor    *   a sufficient number of NGOs/POs meeting the on-lending    *   Number of eligible NGOs/POs participating in
for productive purposes                                  eligibility criteria deliver financial services to the poor  on-lending activities : 150
*   ensure beneficiaries have participated in preparatory  *   beneficiaries have participated in group savings schemes    *   Number of loans to beneficiaries: 114,000
phase of human resource development to achieve           prior to taking out loans                              *   Number of micro-enterprise development
minimum standards of creditworthiness                *   beneficiary access to credit is through the small-groups    (MED) training programs conducted for
*   Promote group-based lending                          *   beneficiaries are provided with skills training and support  beneficiaries: 410
*   Provide support skills and services to promote            services                                               *   Number of beneficiaries trained in MED
entrepreneurial development                          *   at least 75% of NGOs/POs are maintaining satisfactory  *   Recovery rate (from POs): 97%
*   ensure sufficient repayment by POs to the Trust and by    repayment schedules                                        Recovery rate from beneficiaries to NGO/PO:
beneficiaries to POs                                 *   at least 75% of beneficiaries are maintaining satisfactory  95%
repayment
Nutrition Fund
*   support the innovative intervention tested in Galewala  *   test and expand the in-depth nutrition approach in GNDs    *   number of GNDs covered by the In-Depth
AGA Division                                             (modified)2                                                 program: 5,635
*   provide nutrition coverage in 180 AGA by the end of the   *   attempt wider coverage by promoting the basic method  *   number of GNDs covered by the Basic program:
project (approx. 50% of AGAs). After five years of       (modified)                                                  4,640
operation in an AGAI division:                       *   nutrition interventions are being implemented in at least  *   number of POs implementing In-Depth program   v
*   reduce moderate and severe malnutrition in children       50% of GNDs                                                : 35 (average number of NGOs/POs per year)
under three years                                    *   provide training on nutrition interventions to community    *   number of PO implementing Basic program : 60
*   reduce by 75% the frequency of wasting in children        volunteers to ensure sustainability                        (average number of NGOs/POs per year)
under 2 years of age                                 *   reduce by 75% the frequency of wasting in children under   *   number of community volunteers trained: 91
*   reduce by 30% the prevalence of stunting in children      2 years of age
between 2 and 3 years of age                         *   reduce by 30% the prevalence of stunting in children
between 2 and 3 years of age                          *   number of children benefiting from In-Depth
Nutrition Fund (Coniinued)                                                                                               program : 777,004
*   reduce by 25% the incidence of low-birth weight                                                                 *   number of children benefiting from Basic
*   reduce by 25% the prevalence of maternal malnutrition  *   reduce by 25% the incidence of low-birth weight           program: 367,182
and iron deficiency anemia                           *   reduce by 25% the prevalence of maternal malnutrition  *   reduction of serious malnutrition in project areas
and iron deficiency anemia                                 : 32% yearly average
*   Participation rate of mothers and children : 83%
*   incidence of low birth weight: 16%
'The term AGA (Assistant Govemment Agent) division was changed by GOSL during the course of project implementation to DSD (Divisional Secretariat Divisions). Due to design changes made by
NDTF's Nutrition Division, nutrition interventions became concentrated at the lower administrative level, the Grama Niladhari Divisions (GND). Subsequently, progress was assessed on the basis 't
of GND coverage.                                                                                                                                           (  O3
2 By project effectiveness, the Galewala experiment, which had relied on on-site feeding, had completely failed. NDTF's Nutrition Division then proceeded to develop an innovative and participatory  PO
nutrition strategy, called the in-depth approach. Given the lengthy duration of the phased procedures entailed in this strategy, a parallel and less comprehensive, "Basic" approach was also  ° l
designed subsequently.                                                                                                                                         tn



Table 5. Key Performance Indicators by Component
Human Resource Development Fund
*   fund human resource and institutional development of  *   Extent of coverage of the target population by the HRD  *   Number of Divisional Secretariat Divisions
beneficiaries and POs                                   Fund (including PO, beneficiaries and geographic)        covered: 211 yearly average
*   strengthen the conceptual and management skills of POs   *   Provision of relevant PO training programs      *   Number of beneficiary groups formed : 177,149
via training on group formation, credit management,  *   Provision of relevant beneficiary training programs  *   number of beneficiaries (male and female):
MIS, accounting and auditing                        *   Extent of support to PO staff resources                  Males - 375,269, Females - 739,110
*   finance programs for awareness creation and organization   *   Extent of preparatory activities among beneficiary groups   *   Number of NGOs/POs working on HRD: 77
of the poor                                             for credit and entrepreneurial activities                (yearly average)
*   finance skills and enterpreneurship development     *   Extent of networking and shared experiences between POs  *   Number of HRD workers: 949 (yearly average)
programs and programs to help the poor identify     *   Management and operational support provided to POs    *   Number of other field workers: 833
productive activities                                                                                        *   Number of relevant NGO/PO training programs:
*   provide grants to the POs for:                                                                                    205
- staff training                                                                                         *   Rupee amount of savings mobilized by
- provision of consultancies to strengthen knowledge                                                         beneficiary groups: 472.04 million
and skills in beneficiary support activities
- study visits in Asia to learn from the experience of
similar organizations
- consultancies to help strengthen management
- networking workshops to share lessons-learned
with each other
- training of beneficiaries in income-generation
- purchase equipment and vehicles to manage the
program
meet recurrent costs
-develop curricula to enhance PO and Trust staff
skills by training institutions
Rural Works Fund
*   provide short-term income for the poor through labor                                                         *   number of labor days wage work by the poor:
intensive construction of viable rural infrastructure  *   project participants have obtained short term employment  3,650,300
*   assist the poor in selecting infrastructure projects which  in rural works construction                      *   proportion of males to females employed: 60/40
will help increase their incomes                    *   selected rural works meet the production priorities of the    *   number of direct beneficiaries (households):
*   facilitate long-term income opportunities for the poor  poor                                                     692,000
through related training and skills upgrading which  *   the poor have obtained on-the-job skills training and  *   number of projects funded and completed:
would lead to employment opportunities                  upgrading to enable them to secure subsequent long-term  2,150
employment
O IJ
*1u9



- 43 -                                    Table 6
Table 6: Studies Included in Project                   Page 1 of 3
Study               Purpose as defined at      Status         Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
1. Overview of Sri Lankan    Analysis of the broad     Complete    Used in designing policies to
Labor Markets                macroeconomic structure of             promote labour absorption
labour markets
2. A Critical Reassessment of    Analysis of the nature of  Complete    Used to refine the
the Mismatch Unemployment    unemployment in Sri Lanka              understanding of
Hypothesis for Sri Lanka                                            unemployment and improve
policies to improve the
demand for labour
3. Labor and the Numbers     Analysis of the availability of Complete    Used to develop labour market
Racket: An Assessment of     labour market information              information systems in the
Labor Market Information in Sri                                     Ministry of Labour and the
Lanka,                                                              Ministry of Science and
Technology
4. Review of Literature and Data  Set up a ratonal basis for the   Complete    Used in macroeconomic
Sources on the Informal Sector   study of informal labour           policy formulation
markets
5. Does Vocational Education    Analysis of the impact of  Complete    Used in formulation of policies
Enhance Competitivity        vocational training on the             by the Ministry of Labour and
accumulation of specific              the Ministry of Science and
human capital                          Technology
6. Monthly Earnings in Sri   Analysis of earnings patterns  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Lanka                                                               formulation
7. Study of the Feasibility of  Feasibility and cost analysis   Complete    Survey not implemented as
Conducting a Longitudinal    of a longitudinal survey of            prohibitively expensive
Survey of Youth              youth
8. Pay Trends in the Liberalized  Analysis of the time trend of  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Economy and the Index of     wages                                  formulation and the civil
Earnings of Paid Employees                                          service salary reform
9. Working Time at the Job:  Analysis of hours of work  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Review of the Sri Lankan                                            formulation
Experience
10. Female Labour Force      Analysis of trends in female   Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Participation in the 1990s   labour force participation             formulation
I1. Expansion of Productive  Analysis of employment in    Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Employment in Sri Lanka:     Sri Lanka                              formulation
Trends and Dilemmas



44 -                                      Table 6
Table 6: Studies Included in Project                    Page 2 of 3
Study                Purpose as defined at     Status    Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
12, Comparison of Reservation   Analysis of wage patterns in   Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Wages and Predicted Wages for  Sri Lanka                            formulation and the civil
the Unemployed                                                      service salary reform
13. Analysis of Public Private    Analysis of sectoral wage  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Pay Differentials            differentials in Sri Lanka             formulation and the civil
service salary reform
14. Labour Productivity in the    Analysis of productive trends  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Manufacturing Sector in Sri  in Sri Lankan manufacturing            formulation
Lanka
15. Impact of Labour Legislation  Analysis of the effect of  Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
on the Demand for Labour in Sri labour laws on the demand           formulation
Lanka                       for labour
16. Poverty and Unemployment  Overview of research     Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
in Sri Lanka                findings on unemployment                formulation
and poverty
17. A Literature Review of   An overview of studies on    Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Female Migrant Workers      female migrant workers                  formulation
18. Unemployment Among       Analysis of the relationship   Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Educated Women in Sri Lanka   between education, gender             formulation, and in education
and unemployment                       policy by the Ministry of
Education and Higher
Education and the Presidential
Task Force on Education
19. Study of Female Migrant  Analysis of the employment  Complete    Used by the Ministry of
Workers                      structure of female migrant            Labour and the Bureau of
workers                                Foreign Employment
20. Poverty in Sri Lanka,    Survey of the data available   Complete    Used in macroeconomic policy
Indicators, Typology and     on poverty                             formulation
Strategies for Poverty
Alleviation
21. Baseline Study for the   Establish baseline indicators  Incomplete   Study not completed. Not used
Samurdhi Program            for monitoring the Samurdhi            to establish baseline indicators
program                                for Samurdhi.
22. Poverty Among Female     Economic analysis of the  Complete    Used by the Womens Bureau,
Headed Households            gender dimension of poverty.           Department of Social Services
and the Samurdhi Program



45 -                                       Table 6
Table 6: Studies Included in Project                     Page 3 of 3
Study                 Purpose as defined        Status          Impact of Study
at appraisal/redefined
23. Evaluation of Human       Assessment of the quality of  Complete    Used for government policy
Resource Capacity of Social   social mobilization                    formulation
Mobilization Partner
Organizations of NDTF, 1996
24. Evaluation Report of the  Assessment of nutrition    Complete    Used for government policy
Nutrition Component, 1996     outcomes of NDTF
25. Samurdhi-NDTF Nutrition    Assessment of Samurdhi    Complete    Used for government policy
Intervention, Improved Nutrition  nutrition interventions            formulation
Through Communlity           finnaced by NDTF
Mobilization (Divisional Level),
1995                                                          .
26. Nutrition and Its Effect on    Assessment of nutrition and   Complete    Used for government policy
Poverty                      poverty.                                formulation
27. Extensive Evaluation of  Assessment of Micro-Credit  Complete    Used by NDTF for monitoring
Micro-Enterprise Beneficiaries,                                      and evaluation.
1996                                                                 andLvalution
28. Evaluation of the         Assessment of Samurdhi     Complete    Used for Samurdhi activities
NDTF/Samurdhi Nutrition       nutrition activities
Intervention Pilot Programme,
An Interim Report, 1996
29. Evaluation of NDTF funded   Assessment of Samurdhi   Complete    Used for Samurdhi activities
Community Projects by         community projects
Samurdhi Balakayas, 1996     c         p
30. Assessment of Community    Assessment of Rural Works   Complete    Used for NDTF and Samurdhi
Projects for Poverty Alleviation,  Projects                           Activities
1997
31. Assessment of Training   Assessment of training     Complete    Used for Samurdhi activities
Programmes, 1997              activities
32. PO - Comparison of Target   Assessment of PO        Complete    Used by NDTF for monitoring
and Achievements, 1997       performance                             and evaluation



- 46 -
Table 7.1: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual (US$M)       Actual as
Components                   Local Foreign  Total                Total         % of SAR
Estimate
Credit Fund                                35.00           35.00              17.40           50%
Human Resource Development Fund            13.10    1.40   14.50               9.91           68%
Rural Works Fund                           14.70    1.60   16.30              15.90           98%
Women and Child Nutrition                  13.00    1.20   14.20               5.90           42%
Employment and Poverty Policy Unit          0.20    1.20    1.40               0.95           68%
Project Management                          3.60            3.60               7.19           200%
Total Project Cost                         79.60    5.40   85.00              57.25           67%
~500
3000-
2500
O  20 00-
_   1500.
10 00oo             *                                                     Actual
5.00
0.00
Funds|



- 47 -
Table 7.2: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             Actual (US$M)          Actual as
Components              Local    Foreign     Total       Local   Foreign    Total   % of SAR
Estimates
IDA                                  52.1       5.4       57.5          -          -      41.2       72%
KfW                                  10.0         -       10.0          -          -       3.5       35%
Government of Sri Lanka              17.5          -      17.5          -          -      12.5       71%
Total                                79.6        5.4      85.0          -          -      57.2      67%
60.0-
50.0-                         
40.0-~
_  30.0 
20 0 0 iE E a &-~~~~~~~0  AR
20.0- o                                                                       Artu?l
10.0.
IDA                 KfW               Government
of Sri Lanka
Financier



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant  Present    Description of Covenant                             Comments
Class     Status                               I
CR & PR      3.04            2         CP    Credit Risk Fund               NDTF informed IDA that the Risk Fund is being managed in
-conformity with the agreements under the project.
CR & PR      4.01 b(i)       1         C      Independent Auditors         Internal audit team was strengthened. Acceptable external
auditors have been appointed.
Credit       2.01            1         C      Special Account to be setup   The account was opened at the Sri Lanka Central Bank and is
I    operational.
Credit       3.01 b          1         C      Subsidiary Loan Agreement     The Agreement has been accepted by IDA.
under which Bank lends $20
million to the Trust.
Credit       2.06            2         C      Participating Agreements with    PO agreements have been developed and agreed with IDA.
POs
Credit       3.05            5                Workplan for EPPU
Credit       3.06 (a)        3         C      Triposha production levels    The supply of triposha has been unreliable. It has been
stopped.
Credit       3.06 (b)        3         C      Triposha allocation          NDTF is supporting a pilot program to test the feasibility of
alternative weaning foods outside the public sector. Triposha
scheme has been abolished.
Credit       3.06 a          3                Nutritional Health Committees
Credit       4.01 a          2         C      Adequacy of accounting records  Accounting records are inadequate and internal controls are
weak. NDTF taking action to correct. IDA's midterm review
has emphasized this. Internal accounting has been
strengthened and account records adequately kept since mid-
term review.
Credit       4.01 b(ii)      I         C      Certified Accounts and Auditors  Audit reports, received for 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, and
1996 covering all project components.
Credit       4.01 c          1         C      Annual audit of SOEs         The SOEs have been audited satisfactorily, for 1991-96.
PROJ         3.01            2         C      Management and Staff         NDTF management has been strengthened by mid-terrn
review. Four qualified directors have been appointed since
January 1996.
PROJ         3.02            2         C      Insurance                    IDA was informed that Trust vehicles and computers are
adequately covered. The Trust's office furniture (fixtures and
other equipment) have also been covered.
PROJ         3.03            5         C      Mid-Term Review              The review was completed in May 1995.                    so
o co



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant 1 Present         Description of Covenant                           Comments
Class     Status
PROJ          3.04            2          CP      Investment of Funds           NDTF agreed to develop financial policies to guide its
financial management and investment policies. Such policies
should be acceptable to IDA, should be issued by the Trust's
Board. This is under way but not yet completed.
PROJ          Schedule.       3          C       Subloans terms and conditions.   Complied with.
part A                                                                                                                    l
PROJ          Schedule        3          CP     Eligibility criteria for POs.  New NGOs/POs will not be admitted to the credit fund until
part A.4                                                         auditing of all NGOs/POs has been completed in November
1996.
PROJ          Schedule        3          C      Criteria for HRD                Responsibility for social mobilization transferred to POs.
Part B                                                           Training plans for NDTF staff and POs have been developed.
PROJ          Schedule        3          C      Rural works criteria            Complied with.
Part C                                                  ____I
Status: C- Complied with; CP - Complied with Partially
Covenant Class I - Accounts/audit; 2 - Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 - Flow and utilization of Project funds; 5 - Management aspects of the Project
for its executing agency.



- 50-
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                  Actual
Project Cycle           Weeks       US$000      Weeks       US$000
Pre-Appraisal                          NA          NA          37.3       115.6
Appraisal - Board                      NA          NA          36.5       103.2
Negotiations - Effectiveness            15         NA          10.7        34.2
Supervision                             61         NA         212.1       605.9
Completion                             22.8        49.3         4.8        25.5
TOTAL                                                         301.4       884.4
Board Date:                         4/25/91
Effectiveness:                      9/26/91
Closing date                       12/31/97
ICR                                 6/15/98



Table 10: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month   Number of   Days   Specialized staff  Implementation   Development                    Types of problems
Project Cycle   /year     persons      in         skills           Statusb/      Objectives
field    representeda_
Pre-Appraisal    6/89        6         NA                                        _
Appraisal       10/90        5         NA                         _______l
Negotiations   3/91          4         NA                                                   _
Supervision    5/91          3         NA    E, P, F                  1               I
Supervision    6/92          4         NA    P, M, S, F               I               I
Supervision     12/92        2         NA    P,F                      I               I
Supervision    7/93          5         NA    F, M, C, D               2               2
Supervision     11/93        5         NA    F, M, C, D               2               2
Supervision    3/94          3         NA    F, M                     2               2         Weakening government commitment. Pace of
operations and disbursement is slow.
Supervision     12/94        1         NA    TM,                      2               2         Managing director resigns. Members of Board have
not been appointed.
Supervision    5/957                   NA    N, 0, TM, G, F,          2               2         Classified as problem project.
F,P P                             _
Supervision     11/95        6         NA    M, S, TM, M, I, F        U               U         Auditing, performance and project management.    l
Supervision    3/96          4         NA    N, TM, 5, M              U               U        Auditing, performnance and project management.
Supervision     12/96        3          42    N&G, M, TM              s               s         Auditing, performance and project management.
Completion      12/97        6          17    TM, E&P, G&S,           S               U         Final disbursements to be made NGO-Beneficiary
N, R,O                                           Assessment to be implemented.
Field review of nutrition audits to be implemented.
a/ E=Economist, P=Poverly Specialist, F=Financial Analyst, M=Management Specialist, S=NGO/Social Mobilization Specialist, I=MIS, C=Credit,
D=Enterprise Development, N=Nutrition Specialist, O=Operations Assistant, R=Rural Development Specialist, G=Gender Specialist, Task Manager.
b/ I = Problem Free, 2 = Moderate Problems, HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory



- 52 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 26
AIDE MEMOIRE
Sri Lanka Poverty Alleviation Project (CR. 2231-CE)
IDA Project Supervision and ICR Preparation Mission, September 1-22, 1997
Main Summary Aide-Memoire (17 pages and attachments)
Seven technical annexes (not attached) were submitted to the implementing agency (NDTF)
1.     An IDA1 mission reviewed the Poverty Alleviation Project (2231-CE) implementation
performance and started preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which is
due by early 1998. Mission objectives were to (i) start preparations for producing the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and seek the government's assistance in assessing
sustainability of the project's impact; (ii) assess the project's development and implementation
performance; (iii) review procurement, disbursement, project spending and financing since the
effectiveness date (October 1991); (iv) review links between the project, the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and the government's broader poverty alleviation strategy, including the
Samurdhi Program; and (v) assess the lessons learned for the benefit of future IDA-financed
operations in poverty alleviation.
2.     The mission met with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP),
Ministry of Plan Implementation (MPI), Ministry of Youth, Sports and Rural Development
(MYSRD), the Board of trustees and staff of the National Development Trust Fund (NDTF),
Non-Governmental and Partner Organizations (NGO/POs) funded by the project, international
aid agencies and the staff of NDTF. A list of people met will be attached. We thank the
Government, NDTF's Board of Trustees, NDTF staff and NGO/POs for their assistance and
warm hospitality.
Project Performance and Economic Impact
3.     Overall, the project's contribution to poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka appears limited, and
well below its potential. This conclusion is based on data currently available from NDTF, and
previous government and independent studies. During October - December 1997 IDA will
undertake an independent analysis (survey based study) to assess the economic impact of the
project more rigorously. This study will particularly analyze the project implementation and
impact from the point of view of NGO/POs and verify beneficiary impact.
4.     Total project disbursements, through June 1997, were approximately SLR 2.9 billion
(US$57 million), of which IDA contributed US$ 40 million (71% of original SAR estimates),
KFW US$ 3.3 million (33% of original SAR estimates) and the Government of Sri Lanka US$
13.6 million (74% of original SAR estimates).
5.     The relationship between the Government and NGOs throughout the project's life was
ambiguous; in 1991-92 the former government appointed a commission to investigate NGO
I Mission team composition: Jacob Bregman (team leader, sr. educ. specialist); Harsha Aturupana (Economist and
Poverty specialist, consultant SASCO); Mallika Samaranayake (Participatory Development specialist SASCO), Julitta
Rasiah (Financial specialist, SASCO); Nandini Gunewardena (Gender and Poverty specialist, PRMGE); David Pyle
(Nutrition consultant); Henk OpHetVeld (Rural Works and Social Mobilization consultant); Kamal Siblini
(Monitoring and Operations consultant). Mr. Eric Bell and Mrs. Valerie Kozel (PREM) joined the mission for about 2
days under separate terms of reference to evaluate issues related to country economic performance, sustainability of
poverty alleviation strategy and social welfare programs financed by the government.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 26
activities. This hampered project implementation considerably. The largest NGO in Sri Lanka,
Sarvodaya, was barred from acting as a financial intermediary until the commission was
concluded. As late as 1993 this investigation still continued. Other NGOs were also discouraged
from entering into contracts with NDTF. In the later years of the project life, 1995 onwards, these
problems were repeated, on a smaller scale, for the social mobilization NGOs.
6.    The task of building capacity to implement a project of this nature, both in the apex
organization (NDTF) and the NGOs/POs, turned out to be more complex and demanding than
had been envisaged at the stage of project design. The project has built capacity in NGOs/POs to
train individuals for social mobilization and, to a more limited extent, to deliver credit to the poor
to set up micro-enterprises, and to organize community works projects in rural areas. Capacity
has also been built, to a limited extent, in cooperative societies, regional banks and commercial
banks, to deliver credit for micro-enterprise development. However, project experience has
shown that the task of capacity building among NGOs/POs, to enable them to foster viable micro-
enterprises among the poor, especially by assisting in the creation of entrepreneurial skills and
sound management practices, is a difficult and time-consuming process. Also, enterprises need
an energetic and business-friendly environment to succeed. This environment cannot be created
by the government alone but is an energetic and complex mix of private and public sector
interaction. It is important that GOSL clarify the role of NGOs/POs in the context of its poverty
alleviation strategy, utilize the capacity already built and take steps to further strengthen it. The
capacity already built among NGOs/POs for poverty alleviation through this project constitutes a
valuable economic resource for the country.
7.    The project drew strong political interest throughout its lifespan. The first managing
director of the NDTF pointed out that the original name of the fund, the Janasaviya Trust Fund
(JTF), caused it to be confused with the Janasaviya program, although the JTF was meant to be
an independent organization. The perception that the NDTF was closely linked to the Janasaviya
program presented major operational problems in the first three years. In the last three years
GOSL and NGOs/POs have developed a more rational modus operandi. However, the
appointment of a commission to investigate the social mobilization NGOs/POs during June 1995
to August 1996 created again mistrust among NGOs/POs. However, NDTF correctly followed
up on its goal of promoting more accountability and transparency in how project funds were
spent at NGO/PO and beneficiary levels. But in this process it emphasized too much its
"controlling" as compared to its desired "facilitating" role. This led to delays and confusion in
project implementation among NGO/POs. As a result NGO/POs became reluctant to try out
innovative activities if these did not appear to fit into NDTF's bureaucratic framework.
8.    The broad strategy for poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka underwent a major shift in
emphasis mid-way through the projects lifespan. Originally, under this project, the strategy of
delivering assistance to the poor through NGOs/POs was given a prominent role. In this context,
the NDTF was planned as an apex organization to provide assistance to NGOs/POs to implement
poverty alleviation programs. After the new government assumed office in August 1994 the
emphasis of the overall poverty alleviation strategy changed. The Samurdhi poverty program
gave prominence to the strategy of delivering assistance to the poor directly through government
channels, (the Samurdhi Niyamakas), rather than through NGOs/POs. The NDTF ceased to play
an important role in the new poverty alleviation strategy.
9.    GOSL officials point out that IDA task managers changed several times during the
project life. For instance, there were four different task managers appointed in the first four years
of the project. Such rapid changes had adverse consequences on continuity from IDA's



- 54-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 26
perspective. It was also indicated that in the early years of project implementation various task
managers emphasized different approaches. This sent confiusing signals to the NDTF and
hampered the implementation of clear strategies. From IDA's point of view it was one of the
first priorities to ensure that proper accountability mechanisms for disbursements from NDTF to
NGO/POs and NGO/POs to beneficiaries were installed. Since these were not clearly identified
during project preparation significant delays were encountered in the first three years of project
implementation. As a result project disbursements (as compared to original SAR estimates)
remained below expectations.
10.    Project cost-effectiveness was analyzed by examining the percentage shares of
administration costs incurred by the NDTF and POs and the resources reaching the beneficiaries.
For the Human Resource Development fund and the Nutrition fund, the actual expenditures on
beneficiaries was taken as a proxy for the resources reaching beneficiaries. For the Rural Works
fund beneficiaries resources were taken as expenditures nelt of materials costs. For the credit
fund the net resources to beneficiaries was estimated as approximately 20% of loans plus
recoveries. This analysis shows that approximately 33% of project disbursements have been
incurred on administration and management expenses by N]DTF and POs, while 67% of
disbursements have been spent on beneficiaries. This does not include the long-term economic
and social benefits, such as employment opportunities created, income increased due to credit
and rural works activities, and improved living standards. The typical range, internationally, for
administrative and management costs is 30-35 percent. Thus, the administration cost of the
project was within the typical range for projects of this nature.
11.    Credit and Micro-Enterprise Development Fund (CMED). Under the credit fund the
project had disbursed SLR 462 million (US$ 9 million) IDA funds, SLR 173 million (US$ 3.3
million) KFW funds and SLR 223 million (US$ 4.3 million) GOSL funds, through June 1997.
The economic impact of the credit fund appears moderate.
12.    On the positive side, according to project data, this fund assisted to generate
approximately 72 thousand agricultural businesses; 18 thousand micro/cottage industries; 10
thousand livestock projects, 13 thousand service enterprises and about 465 other projects.
Project data suggests that approximately 281 thousand individuals were employed in these
activities. However, the number of net new jobs generated is not available in project data. On
the negative side, the quality of the enterprises generated/developed, measured in terms of key
indicators like profitability, capacity to expand the quantity of output, improve the quality of
goods and services, diversify into new lines of production, generate adequate incomes to lift
individuals out of poverty, and establish enterprises that are commercially sustainable in the
medium to long term, appears to be weak. Research indicates that net profits of about 36% of
enterprises were typically about 500 rupees (US$8) per month. The majority of micro-
enterprises encountered difficulties in business tasks like keeping accounts, obtaining inputs and
marketing outputs commercially. Over 50% of projects appeared to have failed within the first
two years of commencement. These findings suggest that the impact of the component on
raising the incomes of the poor and creating sustainable, long-term employment opportunities
were not met satisfactorily.
13.   Rural Works Fund (community projects). Under this fund the project had disbursed
SLR 730 million (US$14 million) IDA funds and SLR 87 million (US$1.7 million) GOSL funds,
through June 1997. Project data indicates that, under the rural works fund, approximately 2000
community projects had been completed through June 1997, while a further 1,600 projects were
on-going. According to project data, about 3.6 million person days of gross temporary



55 -                                  Annex 1
Page 4 of 26
employment were estimated to have been generated through the activities of this fund. Data on
net employment creation is not available. The projects under this fund covered irrigation and
agro-wells, road construction, and water and sanitation. The irrigation facilities assisted rural
communities to expand agricultural production, benefiting the poor in two ways: (i) enabling
them to increase agricultural activity; (ii) improving employment prospects by enhancing the
demand for labor in the agriculture sector.
14.   The roads constructed benefited poor communities by facilitating the delivery of
production inputs and improving access to markets. According to project data the total number
of end users estimated to have benefited from these rural works projects is approximately 1.5
million. Project data also suggests that NDTF sponsored rural works projects cost approximately
85% of the cost of similar government sponsored projects. However, the prospects for future
sustainability of the rural works constructed with NDTF assistance is uncertain. Irrigation
facilities appear to be repaired by villagers when needed, but regular, systematic maintenance has
not been institutionalized. The maintenance arrangements for drinking water facilities and rural
roads seem to be weak. These are only maintained on an ad hoc basis. Maintenance funds for
regular repair and upkeep do not appear to have been institutionalized.
15.   Nutrition Fund. Under this fund the project had disbursed SLR 306 million (US$ 5.9
million) IDA funds and SLR 8 million (US$ 0.2 million) GOSL funds, through June 1997.
Project data indicate that the nutrition fund promoted basic nutrition programs in about 4,600
GNDs and In-Depth nutrition programs in about 5,600 GNDs, with potential benefits to
approximately 4.8 million individuals (about 30% of the population outside the war affected
North-Eastern province). However, the data over the last 12 months still have to be verified by
independent surveys, because the NDTF/Nutrition department has serious management problems
and appears unable to maintain a reliable monitoring and reporting database. The nutrition fund
activities are likely to have made an important social contribution by: (i) creating awareness of
nutrition issues among the poor; (ii) providing assistance, including training, to monitor nutrition
related indicators, especially among children; and (iii) delivering nutrition related services like
on-site feeding. Trends in malnutrition have been declining in the country during the 1 990s.
While many factors are likely to underlie this trend, including general economic growth, project
data (as far as available) indicate that the activities of the NDTF nutrition fund have had a
positive effect on this trend. The economic benefits of reduced malnutrition are substantial and
long-term. They include lower morbidity, reduced health care costs, better schooling attainment
among children, and improved future work capacity and labor productivity. Hence, the nutrition
fund is likely to have generated positive long-term economic benefits. The main direct
beneficiaries of this component have been predominantly women.
16.   Human Resource Development Fund (social mobilization). Under this fund the
project had disbursed SLR 502.5 million (US$ 9.7 million) IDA funds and SLR 3.7 million (US$
0.1 million) GOSL funds, through June 1997. According to project data, under this fund, more
than 58 thousand community groups were formed for savings and enterprise promotion. The
economic benefits of this activity, however, appear to be limited. On the positive side project
data and research studies indicate that the percentage of individual and group savers have
increased among project beneficiaries. On the negative side, the resources generated through
group savings schemes appear to be used mainly for consumption activities. The utilization of
these resources for investment in productive income generating activities is low. The provision
of training to the poor to develop micro-enterprises was an important element of this component
in the design of the project. However, studies have questioned the quality of these training



-56 -                                   Annex 1
Page 5 of 26
programs and their ability to assist the poor to initiate and sustain commercially viable micro-
enterprises.
17.   Employment and Policy Planning Unit (EPPU) and Poverty Monitoring Unit
(PMU). Under this component the project had disbursed SLR 28.7 million (US$ 0.6 million)
IDA funds and SLR 39.8 million (US$ 0.8 million) GOSL funds, through June 1997. Project
assistance to these two units, located in the Ministry of Finance and Planning (EPPU) and the
Ministry of Plan Implementation (PMU), have generated the following economic benefits: (i)
enhanced awareness of the importance of basing economic and social policies on rigorous
research; (ii) improved the capacity of these units to collect, compile and collate statistical data,
especially on economic issues related to poverty, labor markets, human capital and gender; and
(iii) established links with social science researchers in academia and the private sector to assist
in policy research. However, the capacity of these units to disseminate research findings and, in
particular, use research results in policy making, appear to require further strengthening.
18.   Proposed IDA Study (NGO/PO survey and analysis). between October and
December 1997, IDA will conduct a study (survey based) of all NGOs (about 250) and a sample
of beneficiaries to evaluate the social and economic impact of the project. The objective of the
study will be to: (i) analyze NGO experience regarding design, implementation and impact of the
project; (ii) assess the impact of the project on the participation, targeting and social situation of
women and female headed households; (iii) assess the impact of the project on employment,
earnings and living standards of beneficiaries. The outcomes of the study will be used for the
ICR. It was agreed that NDTF will assist with this study. The results will be made available to
NGO/POs by NDTF after the final report has been submitted to IDA.
Building Institutional and Management Capacity
19.   Organizational Structure of NDTF. The objective of creating a new apex organization
for poverty alleviation to be implemented through NGO/POs proved to be difficult and the
project design took this insufficiently into account. NDTF did not succeed in creating strong
project ownership among NGO/POs until late in the project life and continued throughout the
project life to function more as a controlling rather than as a facilitating apex agency. This
induced resistance among NGO/POs to participate. However, most NGO/PO administrative and
financial systems did not comply with reasonable accountability and audit regulations. During
the midterm project review, which was jointly undertaken by the three financing parties, a
restructuring plan for NDTF was agreed. The structural reorganization of NDTF, which included
formation of a management team (4 directors and the managing director) consisting of poverty
and financial specialists recruited from the private sector, took almost 18 months to complete (up
to November 1996). It improved NDTF's performance, but came too late in the project life to
have a significant impact on the project's impact. Earlier in the project's life technical assistance
provided to NDTF under the UNDP trust fund had yielded disappointing results without having a
sustainable impact on NDTF's management and monitoring effectiveness.
20.   NDTF staff numbers grew to twice the originally projected size over the last three
implementation years. In the Government's own review of the Janasaviya Trust Fund
(September 1995, University of Peradiniya, Colombo), it is stated that "the increase in the
number of divisions from seven to nine and the total number of employees to 183 persons -- or
having 21 1 cadre positions -- certainly does not correspond the SAR projections of 1991,
according to which there were to be seven divisions with no more than 72 employees". Most
senior staff were recruited from the semi-public sector and did not have the necessary



Annex 1
Page 6 of 26
professional skills for poverty alleviation and giving NGO/PO support. However, since a
comprehensive staff training plan was not implemented, the newly recruited senior management
staff were not in a position to improve project implementation significantly.
21.   The restructuring of NDTF, as agreed during the joint midterm project review, took place
from June 1995 to November 1996. Its objectives were to increase cost-effectiveness,
professionalism, coordination and integration between operational divisions (Credit, Social
Mobilization, Rural Works and Nutrition). NDTF's four operational divisions adopted
compartmentalized approaches because of weaknesses in: project design, political climate and the
complexity of building institutional capacity. At the same time the budget process and financial
controls were not sufficiently organized to monitor costs both within NDTF and by NGO/POs.
The complexity of developing and monitoring integrated budget and implementation plans for
NDTF's operational divisions and for the many individual NGO/POs that requested funding
under the project, created tensions within NDTF (between divisions) on one side and NDTF and
NGO/POs on the other side. This hampered the building of trust and cooperation between NDTF
and its NGO/PO clients.
22.   By the third year of project implementation national elections were underway and the
political climate was changing. After the new government came to power it took another 6-8
months before NDTF (its name was changed from JTF to NDTF in February 1995) could again
find its footing with a newly appointed managing director. Meanwhile the new government had
set up an investigation committee into the use of the social mobilization fund that involved 72
NGO/POs. In September 1996, 22 of these social mobilization NGO/POs were approved for
further project funding after a critical review by NDTF according to strict eligibility criteria.
NDTF's effectiveness further decreased due to uncertainty about its future sustainability when
the new government created the Samurdhi (poverty alleviation) program. However, the
government insisted that NDTF and NGO/PO activities were still necessary and very much part
of its strategy. Not surprisingly NDTF staff became less motivated and this did not improve
performance. In spite of all these constraints NDTF appears to have contributed significantly to
the development and expansion of the NGO/PO sector in Sri Lanka.
NGOs/Partners Organizations working with NDTF
Project Components           1992     1993     1994      1995     1996    1997*
Credit                        4        36       101      149       149      149
HR Development               162       33       72        69       62       22
Rural Works                  53       127       152      158       19       41
Women & Child Nutrition       16       22       44        44       40        34
Source NDTF    * till August 31, 1997
The extent to which NGOs/POs were able to integrate project components in their activities can
be illustrated as follows:
NGOs/POs working with          Nov. 1995         March 1996        August 1997
one TF Division                   98                 77                122
two TF Divisions                  5                  8                  23
three TF Divisions                17                 17                 12
four TF Divisions                 40                 38                 10
Totals                            160               140                167
Source NDTF    * till August 31, 1997



- 58 -                                 Annex 1
Page 7 of 26
Credit Fund Component
The objectives of the credit component were to: (i) deliver financial and related services to the
poor to enhance self-employment opportunities; (ii) promote micro-enterprise development;
(iii) increase incomes and earnings of the poor through group-based lending activities and
entrepreneurial development.
23.   The credit and micro enterprise development fund was the key component in the poverty
alleviation strategy of the project. However, project disbursements under this fund up to June
1997 were approximately US$ 16.5 million, just 48% of allocated funds. Only 45% of IDA
funds and 33% of KFW funds, the latter provided as a grant to GOSL, were disbursed. The low
disbursement rates suggest that the financial potential of this activity to develop self-employment
opportunities and promote micro-enterprises among the poor was substantially under-utilized.
24.   The impact of the component in assisting the poor to generate economically viable
micro-enterprises was limited. Research shows that only about 35% of micro-enterprises are able
to show profits after making loan installments and interest rate repayments. Micro-enterprise
development activities appear to have greater likelihood of succeeding if credit is offered as part
of a package involving: (i) training in entrepreneurship and business development; (ii) assistance
to install assured supply lines for raw materials and inputs; and (iii) provision of services to
establish market linkages for output. This should be taken into account in designing future credit
based poverty alleviation programs.
25.   NDTF project data show that the loan recovery rate from NGOs/POs to NDTF was
approximately 97%. This exceeds the SAR target of 95%. However, research studies suggest
that the loan recovery rate from beneficiaries to NGOs/POs is lower than 97%, implying that
NGOs/POs are repaying the NDTF by obtaining funds from other sources. This raises doubts
concerning the economic viability of the relationship between the NDTF, NGOs/POs and
beneficiaries.
26.   The Credit Monitoring and Evaluation Division (CMED) of the NDTF lacked adequate
and reliable data on disbursement by NGOs/POs to borrowers; maturity of credit and repayment
schedules; re-scheduling procedures of NGOs and compliance by beneficiaries; and recovery
rates of NGOs/POs for on-lending to the poor. This made it hard for the NDTF to monitor the
financial relationship between NGOs/POs and beneficiaries.
27.   Sustainability of Credit Fund Operations. The Board of the NDTF has recommended
that the Credit Fund be continued, within the context of a re-structured NDTF, after the closure of
IDA credit on December 31, 1997. Credit activities will be continued by utilizing the
accumulated finances of the Credit Risk Fund, the Liquidity Security Fund, interest earnings,
recoveries of loans and investment of recoveries. Approximately SLR1,000 million has already
been accumulated from these sources for the continuation of credit activities. These resources
appear sufficient to form the financial base of a revolving credit fund, on a smaller scale than at
present, to promote micro-enterprises, income generating activities and small businesses for the
benefit of the poor. However, the nature of the re-structured NDTF, including its management
framework for credit operations, staffing, operational procedures, terms of lending and
repayment, and monitoring and evaluation systems, have yet to be worked out. Given that the
IDA loan is due to close in 3.5 months time, it is urgent that re-structuring of the NDTF be
completed in time to permit continuation of credit fund activities after closure of the IDA loan.



59 -                                 Annex 1
Page 8 of 26
Human Resources Development Fund Component
Objectives: The Human Resources Development Fund helps to (i) promote the productive use of
credit through social mobilization and beneficiary training, and (ii) develop lending capacity of
NGO/POs through staff training and institutional support.
28.   Group formation. Social mobilization activities aim to organize the poor in groups as
well as provide beneficiary training for the productive use of credit. The performance of group
formation during the project period is 18 groups per social mobilizer/year which compares
satisfactory with the NDTF performance target set in 1997 of 24 groups. By August 1996, about
58 thousand groups (average 6 members per group) have been mobilized by 62 NGO/POs in 245
DS Divisions. This included over 350,000 beneficiaries 70% of whom were women.
29.   During the last three years of project implementation, the savings mobilization was
satisfactory with an annual growth rate of 25%. The annual savings per group member increased
from Rs300 (about US$5) in 1994 to Rs670 (about US$13) in 1997, with total savings of Rs472.0
million (about US$9 million). Around 9,000 NGO/PO staff members were trained in social
mobilization at the cost of about Rs2,800 (US$50) per staff member. Developing lending
capacity of NGO/POs, financial management! systems and other business related problems were
insufficient addressed. In 1996, NDTF used some newly developed performance indicators and
identified 22 NGO/POs who would be eligible as full service partners on all project components
(savings, credit, rural works and nutrition activities).
30.   The effectiveness of the skills training (average of three day workshops) to beneficiaries
is doubtful in order promote productive use of credit. Some 3,000 skills training programs have
been conducted, reaching up to 74 thousand beneficiaries. The average training costs per
beneficiary were Rs680 (about US$12) for an average credit of Rs 8,650 (about US$155). The
duration of the workshops as well as the average training costs are minimal. The content of skills
training focused mainly on production skills and neglected the problems beneficiaries face
regarding inputs, tools and marketing.
Rural Works Fund Component
The main objective of Rural Works Fund component (also called Community Projects) is to
provide wage employment opportunities to the poor and create productive assets, including the
maintenance of rural infrastructure. The short term benefit of community projects was to provide
wage employment to augment the incomes of the poor. The anticipated long term benefits are to
achieve improvements in the earning capacity and the standard of living of the poor.
31.   The Rural Works Fund (also called Community Works) component successfully reached
the poor with short term employment. 3.6 million person days have been paid for work done of
Rs650 million (about US$12 million) to 95% of the beneficiaries earning less than
Rsl,500/month (US$30/month). About 92% were unskilled laborers. However, gender balance
could be improved. Female workers contributed 61% of unpaid work, while benefiting only 39%
of the paid work. More community projects could have been completed, if required funds had
been available in time. Between June - August 1997, only 32% of the required RWF funds were
received by the implementation division from NDTF finance department for reimbursing costs
made. There will be a spill over of uncompleted community projects after December 1997. Only



- 60 -                                Annex 1
Page 9 of 26
62% of the contracted projects are completed and monsoon rains (October - December) will
affect completion of the rest. Maintenance of completed projects by beneficiaries is irregular and
marginal. Awareness programs on the maintenance of the community projects were not
conducted regularly and should continue to be executed by the relevant implementing parties.
32.   The productive assets created under the Rural Works Fund have long term benefits
(impact) on agricultural production and on economic and social services to the poor. Economic
benefits from minor irrigation systems (39% of rural works projects undertaken) lead to higher
agricultural productivity. Rural roads (45%) give better access to output markets or economic
and social services. The extent to which the poor benefit from rural roads depends on the access
to mass/individual transport. Beneficiaries indicated (in studies of community projects
undertaken by Samurdhi Balakayas -- Community Based Organizations) in October 1996 that
about 40% profited from economic benefits through community projects and 45% from improved
marketing facilities.
Nutrition Fund Component
|Nutrition component objective: to reduce serious malnutrition among the under-five children and|
|pregnant and breast-feeding women through community-based interventions.l
33.   Data Collection, Reliability and Management within the NDTF Nutrition Division.
Over the last 10 months allegations about serious management problems within the Nutrition
Division of NDTF have come to light and were reported to this mission. These problems have
created unrealistic data as well as troubled relationships with nutrition NGO/POs. This seems to
be further illustrated by the decision to start new nutrition (In-Depth) activities in 1997, while it is
clear that the Government intends to close NDTF (except for the Credit Fund activities). The
IDA mission has advised the government to execute an independent audit of the performance
(financial and nutrition activities) of the Nutrition Division because the problems have cast
doubts on the reliability of NDTF's nutrition impact analysis over recent years.
34.   The SAR identified Thriposha as "central to the program's success", and the government
agreed to maintain Thriposha production and "allocate to the Trust as much of that offtake as the
nutrition component would require." In fact, over the six years of operation only a very small
quantity of Thriposha was distributed to NDTF nutrition projects (in 1995) because of production
shortfalls and whatever was produced was distributed to MOH facilities. Thus, the nutrition
component of the Poverty Alleviation Project was implemented without the processed
supplement and the GOSL expended only 3% of its commitment.
35. The nutrition component has been able to reduce serious malnutrition, especially in
communities implementing the In-Depth strategy. This was achieved by means of a
participatory methodology that included mobilizing the communities, carefully screening and
selecting the most needy (poor and malnourished), relying on locally available commodities,
organizing the villages (particularly the women), effective transferring of knowledge and skills
and making credit available for program participants. The In-Depth program demonstrated the
benefit of an integrated approach.
36.       Coverage: Between the In-Depth, Basic and Samurdhi programs, the Women and
Child Division trained over 24,000 volunteer nutrition workers, community scholars, human
resource developers, community leaders, and Samurdhi Niyajmakas and managers. The



-61-                                   Annex 1
Page 10 of 26
nutrition programs of the NDTF reached a total population of over 4.9 million (In-Depth - 1.1
million; Basic - 2.4 million; Samurdhi - 1.4 million), or almost 31% of the population in 18 of
Sri Lanka's 25 districts.
37.       Impact: The previous supervision mission (March 1996) found that the more
intensive and integrated In-Depth strategy had the greatest potential for impact with over 56 %
of the NGO/PO projects reporting more than 25 % reduction in the rates of serious
malnutrition. Data on the individual NGO/PO In-Depth projects have not yet been made
available which prevents an evaluation of performance over the last year and a half. Data on
the Basic projects is of poor quality, but it appears that this more limited approach is less
effective and less likely to be sustained. The Samurdhi effort was launched too recently to
determine its potential to affect changes in nutrition behavior. The effectiveness of the nutrition
interventions would have been greatly enhanced through better use of data for management
purposes, smoother flow of funds and provision of funds for all stages of the In-Depth program
(e.g., credit for income-generating purposes). The concerns expressed in 1995 about the cost-
effectiveness of the In-Depth approach have not been substantiated. The consensus at present is
that the intensive strategy is what is required and, considering the results that can be achieved,
is not expensive.
38.       Future Direction: The experience gained in the Poverty Alleviation Project
strongly points to the value of combining the capabilities and human resources of the Ministry
of Health staff, the community-based Samurdhi Niyamakas and experienced NGO/POs to
identify and mobilize the poorest and most malnourished members of the community, to
transfer the necessary knowledge and skills to them so that the nutritional status of their
children can be improved. The contribution of the NGO/POs to the training, support and
monitoring of community-level nutrition activities and the linkages established between many of
the NGO/POs involved in the In-Depth program and the MOH's rural health facilities point the
way for the future. The more recently introduced Samurdhi workers provide a community-
based resource that could be helpful in organizing communities and bringing about lasting
changes in child nutrition practices. In support of this approach, a multi-media nutrition
communications strategy focusing on a few key messages is required. In addition, pilot efforts
to develop a locally produced low-cost weaning food should be pursued.
Employment and Poverty Policy Unit/Poverty Monitoring Unit
Development objectives: a) analyzing the economic growth and poverty implications of labor
market functioning in different sectors, and b) developing methodologies for monitoring national
poverty levels.
39.   The required output of the EPPU-PMU was partially achieved. In two respects the
objectives for these two units was not met: (a) development of institutional capacity and
methodologies for analyzing the poverty effect of policies, sectoral programs and projects; and (b)
development of operational guidelines for implementing poverty strategies. Labor market
analysis executed by the EPPU identified unknown aspects of labor market functioning, and gaps
in existing labor market information, useful for understanding how employment contributes to
growth and poverty. Such analytical work has helped develop better methodologies. The
Poverty Monitoring Unit (PMU) has developed performance indicators and methodologies to
track poverty, plans to enhance national capacity to monitor poverty and baseline analyses which
describe the regional and socio-economic characteristics of the poor.



- 62 -                                Annex 1
Page 11 of 26
40.   The lack of a concerted effort to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of poverty policy
and programs, identified as a weakness at project preparation and listed as one of the SAR
objectives, still persists. A better coordinated effort is required to enhance policy formulation
and national planning and monitoring capacity at the regional/provincial levels drawing upon and
better utilizing the data, methodologies and analytical strengths of EPPU/PMU. Further efforts
are needed to analyze the poverty effects of policies, programs and projects which would help
assess their impact and effectiveness in alleviating poverty.
41.   There is at present no formal institutional mechanism for feeding-in the findings of
monitoring activities by PMU or analytical work by EPPU for much needed policy formulation,
given that there are overlapping mandates among several ministries for poverty alleviation and
employment programs. GOSL efforts to develop more rational national strategies for poverty
alleviation, employment generation and in general economic growth could well benefit from the
wealth of analytical findings generated by PMU and EPPU.
Gender Issues Addressed and Outcomes
Development objective: (i) develop and strengthen national capacity to provide assistance to low-
income women through gender training, (ii) provide assistance to low-income women and
alleviate poverty among women
42.   The development objective of providing assistance to low-income women has been
accomplished to a large extent, although further work is needed to enhance the outcomes and
help low-income women exit poverty. In particular, more rational poverty alleviation strategies
and public policies to counteract market failure in reducing gender disparities (particularly in
wages and access to financial services) are essential to build on the gains of project level
interventions.
43.   NDTF and NGO/PO data and beneficiary surveys indicate that: (a) at least 72% of small
group members (nearly 740,000 households) are low-income women who have now been
mobilized and are engaged in groups savings and income generating activities; (b) about 10% of
these women received skills development training, credit and established income generation
projects (57% of the total number of micro-projects established under the project); and (c) nearly
840 thousand paid-wage days in rural works were provided to women (39% of total), and almost
520 thousand (61%) days of voluntary (unpaid) labor for rural works construction. However,
more male (58%) than female (42%) unskilled workers have participated in paid labor, while
conversely, nearly twice as many females (66%) than males (34%) have participated in unpaid
labor.
44.   National capacity to provide assistance to low-income women has been enhanced
through gender training provided to approximately 30% of NGO/POs on analysis and
methodologies to address gender and poverty issues, and in assessing women's participation rates
and the quality and impact of project activities on the lives of low-income women. Analytical
work on high unemployment among women and gender and poverty by the EPPU-PMU has
contributed to better understanding of the gender, poverty and unemployment relationships.
45.   Female participants interviewed in a survey of approximately 4,000 beneficiaries
(conducted in early 1996) reported that project interventions had contributed to their



- 63 -                                 Annex 1
Page 12 of 26
empowerment in terms of: (a) overall positive impact on their lives (81 % of those surveyed); (b)
economic improvements (65%); (c) enhanced self-reliance (54%); (d) improved decision-making,
financial management, interaction with local level authorities, awareness levels, and social
networks, all of which contributed to their ability to improve their income levels.
Beneficiary Participation
Participation is a process through which stakeholders influence and share control over
development initiatives and the decisions and resources which affect them (World Bank, 1996).
Targeted Beneficiaries. The ultimate beneficiaries of the project, as indicated in the SAR (p.1 8)
was the population that fell below the poverty line (approximately 900,000 households or 28% of
all households in Sri Lanka in 1986/87). In particular, the poorest 10 percent among these
households, about 90,000 based on more rigorous screening criteria, were to be targeted.
46.   Targeting Efficiency. There is sufficient evidence to indicate that project benefits were
captured primarily by the intended beneficiaries, as per the targeting criteria specified under the
project (in the SAR), particularly from the Rural Works Fund and the Nutrition Fund.
47.   According to data from NDTF's Rural Works Fund, approximately 28% of direct
beneficiaries of rural works have been households with income below Rs.700 (about US$14),
while 32% were food stamp holders (with monthly incomes ranging between Rs.700 - 1000), and
15% were those with monthly incomes ranging between Rs. 1000 - 1,500. Similarly, the self-
selection of unskilled labor (92% of the labor days deployed under the project) in rural works
construction suggests that the majority of participants were those within the target group (with
little access to formal and regular work elsewhere). However, it is clear that, the non-poor too
would have benefited from rural works, since rural infrastructure leads to community-wide
improvements.
48.   The Nutrition Fund had developed targeting criteria (based on a combination of income,
assets and health/nutritional status) which were used when the project nutrition interventions
commenced at field sites. NGO/POs implementing the In-depth nutrition strategy select the 10
poorest GNDs in a given DSA, ensuring that only the poorest and most needy households were
identified and assisted, based on the criteria mentioned above. In the Basic nutrition strategy, by
contrast, NGO/POs conducted a household poverty survey to identify the poorest and most needy
families. These households form the target group for nutrition assistance.
49.   Targeting Mechanisms. At project inception, household income levels needed to be
verified by a certification by the Grama Niladhari (local government official), in order to be
eligible to participate in project activities. NGO/POs and Human Resource Development
Workers identified the poor in this manner, and only those with GN certificates were included in
village level small-groups, and eligible to participate in the Rural Works Fund, HRD Fund or
Credit Fund activities. The Nutrition Fund, however, devised a targeting method that went
beyond income levels, and village surveys conducted by field workers identified the poorest
based on their health/nutritional status, income and assets.
50.   Participation Outcomes. The project objective of using the strategy of small- group
formation to ensure the participation of the poor (SAR, p.17) has led to the mobilization of nearly



-64 -                                             Annex 1
Page 13 of 26
180,000 households in 270 Divisional Secretariat Areas2. There is evidence from several sites
that NGO/PO efforts to increase the participation of beneficiaries in identifying and managing
micro-projects (both for income generation and rural works)3 has enhanced the relevance of most
projects for the poor. The high voluntary labor contribution alone, particularly for rural works,
suggests a significant degree of ownership by project participants. Yet, there is little information
about the overall quality and sustainability of small-group activities, and further evidence from
the field is necessary to assess the level of commitment generated among poor communities to
sustaining project activities and benefits beyond the life of the project. While female
participation in every project component has been generally high (Approximately 72% of small-
group membership; see Technical Annex 6), the adequacy of the assistance provided to ensure
exit from poverty needs to be evaluated. Similarly, it is important to assess the extenit to which
the poorest and most marginalized in target communities have participated.
51.     Entry-Exit Mechanisms. Entry4 and exit5 criteria for participation had been defined in
the SAR (p. 19), but were not revised with the change of entitlement programs, on which such
criteria was based. Therefore, entry and exit criteria were not used rigorously by the project, nor
were there attempts to test the most appropriate exit mechanisms for beneficiaries (e.g., the
duration of assistance to ensure optimal capacity and self-reliance built among beneficiaries),
which would avoid a dilution of the benefits from assistance provided. Objective measures and
indicators to determine the length, and extent of assistance required in different socio-economic
contexts was not developed by the project. As a result, it is difficult to determine to what extent
beneficiary capacity has been achieved to influence the direction and execution of their own
development, rather than merely receiving a share of project benefits, relying continuously on
external assistance.
52.     Lessons Learned. The general lesson from social funds elsewhere is that the quality and
extent of community participation builds-in a sense of ownership by project beneficiaries,
enhancing the sustainability of outcomes. The key lessons for Sri Lanka are: a) although it has
been estimated from available data that leakage of project benefits to the non-poor has been
minimal, a more rigorous method of poverty mapping to identify and prioritize the poorest
pockets in the country would have rendered the targeting even more efficient; b) the participatory
approaches adopted by NGO/POs as compared to local government, particularly in rural works
construction have been more demand-led and client responsive; c) despite a few weaknesses in
promoting participation through NGO/POs as intermediaries, the project has served as a
pioneering model for demonstrating the benefits of participatory processes by mobilizing
previously under-served low-income communities and tapping their productive potential; d)
2 There are a total of 300 DSAs in Sri Lanka, and essentially this means that a coverage of 90% of DSAs was achieved at peak
project operation, up to 1995.
3 As compared to the early years of the project when, in the absence of NGO/POs willing to participate in the project, much of this
work was coordinated through local government, resulting in top-down, rather than demand-driven projects.
4 The entry criteria for beneficiaries defined at project start-up was income levels -- defined as Rs. 1458 per household, parallel to
those in the Janasaviya Program (JSP). Additional criteria were agreed upon between the Bank, GOSL, NDTF and NGO-POs in the
early stages of project implementation: a) Grama Niladhari certificates attesting to tlhe income levels of beneficiaries to ensure that
they were below the poverty line; and b) health/nutrition levels and household assets criteria used by the nutrition division of the
project.
5 The exit mechanisms for beneficiaries defined in the SAR were: a) beneficiaries would graduate from the program within the two-
year JSP entitlement period as soon as the family's income level reaches Rs. 1,500 per month on a sustained basis; and b) those
refusing (at any point) to participate in a productive activity would be dropped from the program and become eligible for food stamps
only.



- 65 -                                Annex 1
Page 14 of 26
guidelines for entry-exit of beneficiaries are required in order to make maximum use of limited
resources, NGO/POs assistance, and build capacity and self-reliance among low-income groups;
and d) periodic and objective evaluation of the rate and quality of participation, including that by
women and poorest/marginalized groups are required to ensure equitable access on one hand, and
the desired empowerment outcomes.
Financial Covenants Performance Outcomes
53.   Over the life of the project the Government's implementing unit (NDTF) showed, at
times, delayed and partial compliance to the financial covenants, specified in the Development
Credit and the Project Agreement (CreditNo.2231-CE). The project accounts, audited by
Coopers and Lybrand throughout the project life, in accordance with the International Standards
on Auditing did not have major qualifications. Nevertheless they were delayed in being
submitted to IDA within the four months time period specified in the Credit Agreement. Further,
internal controls at NDTF proved to be inadequate and ineffective at times. As part of the internal
controls, NDTF's internal audit division should have had a more aggressive role, at least in terms
of screening the NGO/POs for having adequate financial accounting systems.
54.   Audit Covenant Pertaining to the Partner Organizations. Under the Credit Fund
Component, NGO/POs were required to maintain adequate accounting and financial reporting
systems. They were also required to have these audited annually by an independent auditor in
order to be eligible for further funding under the Credit Fund (2b ofpart A in the schedule to the
ProjectAgreement). However, only partial compliance has been shown. The main reasons are:
(I) NDTF only started to critically monitor credit NGO/POs compliance after the mid term
project implementation review mission (May 1995; jointly executed by the three financing
agencies). Even after the mid term review mission, NDTF did not follow up aggressively enough
for the covenant to be effective in monitoring credit performance.
55.   Following a request by the midterm project implementation review mission, NDTF
carried out a review of the credit NGO/POs. IDA also insisted that NDTF should have Credit
NGO/POs audited by an external audit firm. Coopers and Lybrand reviewed 77 credit NGO/POs
(over the period of January 1994 to March 1995) which accounted for more than 85% of the
Credit Fund's disbursements as of December 1995. As per their review, eight out of even the 12
large credit POs did not maintain adequate accounting records in line with generally acceptable
accounting practices and five did not have their most recent accounts audited by an independent
external auditor.
56.   Lessons for the Future Related to Financial Covenants. As per new IDA guidelines
(OP/BP 10.02), a critically review is required during appraisal of the Financial Management
capacity and internal controls of the project implementing unit. This should also ensure that
sound financial management systems are in place before the Credit is declared effective.
57.   Further, if the systems are found to be inadequate, particularly at NGO/PO level,
technical assistance should be provided to enhance their financial capability. After TA has been
provided, monthly or quarterly follow up financial reports should be required (from NGO/POs) to
monitor progress of compliance.
58.   At the NGO/POs Level:
a)    The scope of the work of the external auditors should be extended so that
NGO/PO accounts are audited by the same auditor; all NGO/POs should be



- 66 -                                      Annex 1
Page 15 of 26
required to maintain separate and adequate accounts in accordance with the
generally accepted accounting practices; auditors of NGO/PO accounts should be
acceptable to the IDA.
b)     NGO/POs should agree on a time period for the submission of such audit reports
when they first obtain funds under the Project; this should be included in formal
agreements; prompt action mechanisms should be activated by the project unit,
such as sending warning letters and eventually suspending disbursements, if the
audit reports are not submitted within the specified time period.
c)     Small NGO/POs situated in the rural areas could be given financial assistance to
facilitate annual audit of their accounts by acceptable auditors; if such audits are
not feasible, particularly for NGO/POs with small financial support from the
project fund and for NGO/POs who are situated in very rural parts of the country,
alternative independent verification methods should be considered and agreed
among all parties.
Monitoring Performance and Capacity of NDTF and NGODs/POs
59.    Weak coordination between NDTF divisions resulted in an ineffective management
information system that impaired the capacity to effectively monitor project performance and
impact. Project Management costs exceeded the estimated totals and proportions made at project
design. Administrative and management costs were 156% of original IDA project estimates
(197% of total project estimates). This represented 2% of IDA disbursements under the project.
60.    Though the
monitoring system of                            NDTF   1              DepartmentofNationall
NDTF has improved                                                         Planning/PMU
throughout the project,                                0
it is still not adequate to  (       4            OPO 
assess the projects'
effectiveness and its
impact on the poor.                                                       5
The monitoring system        c       i        nericsaries
was not used as a tool
o  I. NDTF, an apex organization, interacts with NGOs/POs and beneficiaries to monitor and
for decision-making,        assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the project activities to alleviate poverty. NDTF
mainly because timely       approves NGO/PO sub-project annual workplans and budgets.
data analysis were not    2. NDTF monitors NGO/PO activities based upon which it makes operational decisions.
3. NGO/PO delivers services to beneficiary and monitors progress
available at many        4. NDTF periodically monitors beneficiaries through regional coordinators to assess project
instances of the project    performance and impact
life. Better interaction    5. PMU collects information for national indicators and develops strategies
and information exchange between NDTF and NGOs/POs would have improved the capacity to
assess implementation performance.
61.    Project partners (NGO/POs) also had weak monitoring systems and required intensive
training in measuring effectiveness and efficiency of implementation. However, coordination
among NGO/POs was lacking during most of the project life. This contributed to the lack of
monitoring quality and made it difficult to reach joint (NDTF and NGO/POs) decisions on how to
improve accountability and transparency.



-67 -                                Annex 1
Page 16 of 26
Samurdi Program and Links with NDTF Activities
62.   The Samurdhi Program is the government's main poverty alleviation program in the
country. Samurdhi has two major strategies: (i) income supplements to the poor; (ii)
development of social and economic infrastructure through rural community works, delivery of
credit for micro-enterprises and nutrition interventions. According to goverment data, the
Samurdhi program is in operation in 18 out of the 24 districts in the country, and about 1.8
million families received income supplements. Of these families, about 62% receive income
supplements of SLR500 (US$8) every month; about 1.5% of families receive SLRIOOO (US$16)
every month, and the remaining families between SLR100-200 (US$1.6-US$3.2) every month.
Overall this covers about 9 million individuals (based on the average family size of 5 persons).
This implies that almost 50% of the population benefits from Samurdhi. The activities of the
Samurdhi Program are too recent to enable evaluation of their impact and efficiency.
63.   Under the Samurdhi Credit program, two schemes have been initiated: (i) Suratura
Diriya, which provides loans at 10% interest to low-income, non-Samurdhi beneficiaries; and (ii)
Sasana (Samurdhi development loan scheme), which offers loans to Samurdhi beneficiaries for
small agriculture, industrial, trading and service activities. Loans have a maximum of
SLR50,000 (about US$850). This scheme is combined with a Samurdhi savings society, in
which credit seekers are compelled to save a minimum of SLR 2000 (US$34) per family to
qualify for credit under Samurdhi. Some of these have been financed under the project by
NDTF. There are about 80 such compulsory savings societies throughout the country.
According to Samurdhi data, savings mobilized up to now amount to about SLR 1,400 million
(US$24 million). Under the Samurdhi Economic Infrastructure Development Program a series of
community projects in irrigation, roads, water and sanitation have commenced. By end 1996,
according to Samurdhi data, community projects had been completed in 18 districts at a total
expenditure of about SLR 211 million (US$3.6 million).
64.   Samurdhi is administered through the Samurdhi Authority of the Ministry of Sports,
Youth Affairs and Samurdhi. Samurdhi activities are primarily implemented by approximately
28,000 Samurdhi Niyamakas (animators in the villages, who organize the (CBO) Balakayas,
nominate families eligible to receive Samurdhi benefits, and generally function as the the
government's information network at village level). The government has also appointed about
1,500 Samurdhi managers, to whom the Niyamakes report regularly. The Samurdhi managers
report to the Divisional Secretariats. The government's target is to eventually arrive at a total of
36,000 Samurdhi Niyamakes. The 1997 budgetary allocation to Samurdhi is about SLR 8,000
million (US$133 million). This is a large allocation, as it is approximately 62% of GOSL
expenditure on education, and 67% of GOSL expenditure on health care. Out off total Samurdhi
budget, approximately SLR 900 million (US$15 million) is spent on salaries of Samurdhi
officials (including Samurdhi Niyamakas). The Niyamakas are currently employed on a monthly
allowance of approximately SLR 3000 (US$50, about 40% of the starting salary of a government
official), and are mainly youth in the age range 18-30 years. There is considerable pressure on
GOSL by the Samurdhi Niyamakas to be absorbed into the regular administrative service of the
country. The GOSL has thus far resisted this pressure. However, there is a strong possibility that
political pressure will compel GOSL to absorb them into the government service in the future.
This would more than double the salary cost of the Samurdhi program (their 40% would have to
be increased to 100% of starting salary level), and add to pressure on the government budget.



-68 -                                 Annex 1
Page 17 of 26
65.   In late 1995 the Government requested IDA to approve funding of Samurdhi activities
under the project. IDA apporoved on condition that (I) project eligibility criteria would be
strictly applied; and (ii) Samurdhi activities should be evaluated by independent consultants. The
evaluation was submitted to IDA late 1996. NDTF approved financing for sub-projects by
Samurdhi Balakayas (Community Based Organizations) under the Rural Works and Nutrition
Funds. The conclusion of the evaluations were mildly positive. Samurdhi type activities were as
cost-effective as the other funded activities by NDTF.
66.   In 1997 NDTF approved and funded about 640 Samurdhi Rural Works sub-projects, of
which about 30 are completed to date. NDTF/RW funds allocated in 1997 are about SLR132
million (US$ 2.2 million). An evaluation of about 50 Samurdhi RW projects funded by NDTF
(over 1996 and 1997) concluded that these were needs-based, Samurdhi Niyamakes provided
good leadership according to the villagers and Divisional Secretaries have ensured effective
utilization of resources. In 1996-97 a total of 923 RW projects were approved by NDTF. To
date most are still in progress. NDTF trained about 2,500 Samurdhi Niyamakes and 400
Samurdhi managers in nutrition awareness creation, weight measurement of children and
preparation of plans to alleviate key nutritional problems. NDTF supported Samurdhi nutrition
activities in about 40 DSDs, covering a population of about 1.4 million.
Next Steps in the Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
67.   The project closure date is December 31, 1997. Agreements and next steps for
preparation of the project ICR (in chronological order):
a)    NDTF will immediately inform allfunded NGO/POs individually and set a
reasonable deadline (preferably before the end of January 1998) for
submission offinancial claims under IDA projectfinancing (Statements of
Expenditures -- SOEs). NDTF management will closely monitor timely
submission by NGO/POs of their SOEs.
b)    NDTF (MD and Board of Trustees) agreed to request Coopers and Lybrands
in the coming weeks to deliver the 1997 audit reports as soon as possible after
the closure of the IDA credit. Coopers and Lybrand informed the mission that
this was possible provided ND TF will make the necessary documents available
in time.
c)    NDTF will assist IDA to conduct a NGO/PO survey in the period of September
to December 1997. Objectives of the survey are (i) to analyse NGO/PO
experience regarding design, implementation and impact of the project, (ii)
analyse the profile of beneficiaries and the project's impact on their economic
and social situation, and (iii) special emphasis will be placed on analysing the
project impact on women's economic and social benefits. All NGO/POs
funded under the project will be surveyed. The beneficiary survey will be on a
sample basis. Mr. Harsha Aturupane (consultant to IDA) will execute the
survey and analyse the results, which will be made available to NDTF and all
NGO/POs. The terms of referencefor the survey have been agreed upon with
the government. The results of the survey will be included in the ICR.



-69-                               Annex 1
Page 18 of 26
d)    The GOSL (Board of Trustees and MD/NDTF) will submit to IDA before the
end of January 1998 the project's 1997 implementation progress report and
updated information as per technical annexes to this aide-memoire.
e)    The Government's part of the ICR (part 2) will be submitted to IDA before the
end of Februaryl998. The Secretary Finance and NDTFBoard of Trustees
has appointed Messrs. H.N. Perera (current Acting MD/NDTF), Tennekoon
(MD/NDTF) and Dr. Ratnayake (Secretary MYSRD and Samurdhi
Coordinator) to coordinate the preparation of the government's ICR (part 2).
J)    IDA will submit its draft ICR (part 1) to GOSL for comments before the end of
February 1998, based on updated technical annexes as attached to this aide-
memoire (September 1997) and project performance indicators.
g)    The Government (MD/NDTF) will submit to IDA before the end of February
1998 (or or as soon as possible thereafter, but not later than April 30, 1998)
the required 1997project audit reports (SOEs, Financial Statement of the
Trust, Special Account).



Table 1: Proiect Disbursement Progress (IDA+KfW+GoSL) -As of June 30,1997
In millions US$                                                            In million Rs.
SARI"                           Disbursements                                      __SAR_' 4Disbursements__  _       _      _       _
Est    1991   1992   1993   1994    1995   1996  6/30/97  TOTAL    Esfimats    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995*    1996   6130197 TOTAL f
CreditFund                     20.0           0.02    1.17   1.21     4.26    1.06     1.12     8.84    1,020.0             1.0   55.8   60.2   221.8    58.7       64.9   462.
Human Resource Dev. Fund        12.0          0.34    1.34   3.67     2.61    1.51     0.38     9.84      612.0           15.0   64.0  182.4   135.6    83.6         21.9   502.5
Rural Works Fund                14.7          1.13   2.10   3.26      3.60    3.17     0.93    14.20      749.7           50.1  100.6  162.2   187.5   175.7        54.0   730.1
Nutrition Fund                   9.5          0.06   0.32   0.91      1.83    1.85     0.78     5.75      484.5            2.7   15.2   45.3    95.2   102.5         45.4   306.3
Employment Policy Planning Un'   0.8          0.21    0.21    0.07    0.07    0.08     0.06     0.70       40.8            9.2   10.1    3.7       3.9      4.3       3.4    34.
Project Management               0.5          0.23   0.20   0.16      0.08    0.07     0.06     0.81       25.5           10.4    9.8    8.2       4.0      4.1       3.2    39.
Totar    57.5           1.99   5.34    9.29    12.46    7.75     3.31   | 1       2,932.51          88.4  255.5  462.0   548.0  428.   9     192.8 2.075.
ICreditFund' KtVV               10.01           0.1    0.5    1.9       1.0                       3.5 [    505.01           4.5   26.1   92.3    50.0                        172       .9
CreditFund                       5.0  2.91    0.04   2.12                                       5.06      252.5  120.3    1.6  101.2                                        223        .1
Human Resource Dev. Fund         2.5  0.005  0.005           0.02     0.04    0.00              0.07      126.3    0.2    0.2              1.2     2.0      0.1               3.7
Rural Works Fund                 1.6  0.01    0.12   0.31    0.39     0.40    0.35     0.10     1.70       80.8    0.6    5.5   14.9   19.4    20.8    19.5          6.0    86.7 .
Nutrition Fund                   4.7                         0.12             0.02     0.01     0.15      237.4                            6.0              1.0       0.7     7.7
Employment Policy PlanningUn     0.6U         0.22   0.03                                       0.25       30.3            9.6    1.5                                        11.1
Project Management               3.1   0.44    1.05   0.88    1.24    1.15    1.09     0.53     6.38      156.61   18.2   46.5   42.1   61.5    59.9    60.5        31.0   319.7
Total    ''17.5   3.37    1.43   3.34    1.77       1.59    1.46     0.65               883391 139.3   63.4  159.7   88.1    82.7    81.1         37.7    552       .0
Cred Fund                1     35.0  2.91    0.16   3.83    3.07      5.23    1.06     1.12    17.36    1,777.5  120.3    7.1  183.1  152.5   271.8   58.7          64.9   858.4
HumanResourceDv.Fund            14.5| 0.005    0.34    1.34   3.69    2.65    1.51     0.38     9.91      738.3    0.2   15.2   64.0  183.6   137.6    83.7         2i.9    506.2
Rural WorksFund                 16.3  0.01    1.25   2.41    3.65     4.00    3.53     1.03    15.90      830.5    0.6   55.6  115.5  181.6   208.3   195.2         60.0    816.8
Nutrition Fund             |   14.2           0.06   0.32    1.03     1.83    1.87     0.79     5.90      721.9            2.7   15.2   51.3    95.2   103.5        46.1    314.0
EmploymentPolicyPlanning Un'     1.41         0.42   0.24   0.07      0.07    0.08     0.06     0.95       71.1           18.8   11.6    3.7       3.9     4.3       3.4    45.7        X
,ProjectManagement               3.6  0.44    1.28    1.09    1.40    1.23    1.17      0.59     7.191    182.1   18.2   56.9   51.9   69.7    63.9    64.6          34.2   359.4
Total        85.01  3.37   3.53   9.23  12.91    15.01    9.21       3.96    57.22L  4,321.4  139.3  156.3  441.3  642.4   780.7   510.0    230.5  2,900.5
Includes (as of Jun. 97)        1996  | 1997 |  Total
SoE with IDA
1. Original SAR estimates                                                                                      SoE with Central Bank
2. Percentages were calculated on the basis of US$57.5 million SAR estimate and US$11.03 million for 1997 which is the  SoE of EPPU (under preparation)
amount budgeted for 1997. Actual % of SAR is computed on the basis of the average yearly US$ conversion rate.  SoE with NDTF                     0.47           0.47 |
3. KfW adjusted its credit by cancelling about US$ 2 in mid 1997                                               SoE to be prepared                 1.11    3.40   4.51
4. IDA credit of SDR 6.5 million (about US$10 million) was cancelled in December1996                           (in US$ million)                   1.58    3.401  4.98                   X
In December 1996 closure date of IDA credit was amended to December 31, 1997                                 - US$ 4.98m is included in total US$40.14ml IDA disbursement.            |
GOSL disbursements include Rs. 220 million (US$5 million) for the Credit Risk Fund.
Loans given out of PO loan recoveries of Rs.221 .9m (US$ 4.4m) have not been considered as disbursement out of donor funds
All Fixed assets and the divisional overheads of the NDTF are included in Project Management Funds.
Source: NDTF Finance Department



Table 2: Disbursement Progress and Lag as per Estimates - 1992 to June 30, 1997
(including US$4.98 million in SoEs under preparation)
Total Disbursement     .     Original SAR Estimate                                                Total IDA Disb.            Original SAR Estimate
Per Year     Cumulative       Per Year      Cumulative          Total Disbursement Lag          Per Year    Cumulative       Per Year      Cumulative              IDA Disbursement Lag
Year     1991-97        1991-97        1991-971       1991-972'3        Per Year       Cum. (92-97)       1991-97       1991-97        1991.971       1991-97            Per Year         Cum (92-97)
-199i1 i    3.37           3.37                                                                            1991.97         _179 91
1992       3.53          6.89            11.90          11.90           70.4%            42.1%              1.99          1.99           6.40          6.40               68.8%             68.8%
1993       9.23          16.12           15.14          27.04            39.1%           40.4%             5.34           7.34           9.40          15.80              43.2%             53.6%
1994      12.91          29.03           17.91          44.95            27.9%           35.4%             9.29          16.62          12.10          27.90              23.2%             40.4%
1995      15.01          44.04           18.65          63.60            19.5%           30.7%             12.46         29.08          13.90          41.80              10.4%             30.4%
1996       9.21          53.26           21.50          85.10            57.2%           37.4%             7.75          36.83          15.70          57.50              50.7%             36.0%
1997       3.96          57.22           19.84          73.10            70.4%           21.7%              3.31         40.14          10.67          47.50              68.9%             16.0%
57.22           -             73.10             -                                               40.14           -            47.50            -
Fig.2a: Annual Cumulative Disbursement against                                                      Fig. 2b: Annual Cumulative Disbursement against
Cumulative SAR Estimates (91-97) - IDA+KfW+GoSL                                                              Cumulative SAR Estimates (91-97) - IDA
100 ^                                                                                               60m
604-
30-
1991-97           109
:°/ Disb~ ursement Lagl                                                          _9_          _
KfW adjusted its credit by cancelling about US$ 2 in mid 1997                           as per Estimate                                                               '%  Disbursement Lag o
IDA credit of SDR 6.5 million ( about US$10 million) was cancelled in December 1996                                                                                     s per Es       e
In December 1996 closure date of IDA credit was amended to December 31, 1997
Low disbursement in 1996 were due to:                                                1. 1997 budget was set at extension of credit in December 1996
Presidential inquiry into HRD fund spent by PoslNGOs,                       2.1997 cumulative estimates include cancellations of US$10 million of IDA funding and US$2 million of KfW funding  CD
Delays in extemal audit of Credit PoslNGOs (took over 12 months), and       3. Calculation of estimates for 1997: Original Total Estimate-Cancellations-1 996 cumulative disbursement
Spending stopped on HRD activities and training.                            4. IDA Calculation of estimates for 1997: Onginal Total Estimate-Cancellations-1996 cumukative disbursement
Source: NDTF Finance Deoartment



Table 3: IDA Disbursement - Actual vs. Estimates
(US$ Millions)                                             (SDR Millions)
FY        Original    Formally Revised      Actual                    Original      Formally Revised     Actual
Disbursement   Disbursement    Disbursement                 Disbursement    Disbursement    Disbursement
Estimate        Estimate                                    Estimate         Estimate
1991         0.0             0.0              0.0                        0.0               0.0              0.0
1992         6.4             3.0              3.0                        4.5               2.1              2.1
1993         9.4             0.0              0.0                        6.6               0.0              0.0
1994        12.1             4.3              4.4                        8.5               3.1              3.1
1995        13.9             7.0              7.5                        9.8               5.0              5.0
1996        15.7             9.0              9.6                        11.0              6.4              6.5
1997         0.0             14.7             11.9                       0.0              10.4              8.4
1998         0.0             10.0             0.0                        0.0               7.1              0.0
Total          57.4             47.9             36.4                      40.5              34.1-            25.1
-1 2
10             / /                                         -
- Original Disbursement Estimate
1991 199                     '' ' t'-f \ D*'i 'Revised Disbursement Estimate
~~~~~19914   f9!I
999                u      Actual Disbursement
1998
Source: World Bank



Table 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Proiect (Jan94-Jun97)
Table 4a: Not including Project Management Costs1                               Table 4b: Including Project Management Co
Cumulative 1994-1997 (Million Rs. and %)'                                Annual 1994-97 (Million Rs. and %)
HRD           RWKs           WCN           Credit         TOTAL              1994  1 1995  1 1996  1 1997             Total
NDTF Expenditures               30.2    8%    16.4    3%       9.5    3%   16.0    5%        72.1    5%           12%      13%      13%      17%       223.3    13%
POINGO Expenditure              124.0   31%    53.3   11%   124.6   40%   30.5    9%        332.3   21%           22%      17%      22%      17%      332.32    20%
Beneficiary                    241.5   61%   417.6   86%   175.1   57%  307.5   87%    1,141.6   74%              65%      71%     65%       66%     1,141.59    67%
Total  395.7  100%   487.2  1oo0%   309.2  10oo   353.9  100%    1,546.1  100%           100%     100%°    100%     100%      1,697.2   100%
I... 
Fig. 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Project (including management costs)
Cost effectiveness analysis of the Project was calculated as follows: the amount of NDTF administration and management
expenditures, PO/NGO administration and management expenditures, and an estimate of the value of resources flowing to the
I beneficiaries was calculated separately for each category. The relative percentages of these amounts were then calculated. The
percentage of administration and management costs was compared to similar percentages of projects in other developing
countries (Average of 30-35%).
1. Project Management Costs cover Intemal Audit, Finance Division and Managing Director's Secreterat
Project Management Costs were incurred for all divisions together. In consequence, these costs can't be allocated by fund.
Source: NDTF Finance Department



Table 5a: Project Performance Indicators per Component (Credit Fund)
1991           1992                  1993                 1994                  1995                  1996             Jan97-Jun97                  TOAL
Main Functional areas                             Rs(m)jNo  Rs (m)    No.          Rs (m)     No.        Rs (m) I   No.       Rs (m) I   No.        Rs (m)     No.        Rs (m)      No.         Rs       .,i    No.
1. Loans to BENEFICIARIES                               .         5.49      1898      90.73      14878    225.90           5    330.90      38,67     19900       20844       76.60      8863        928.6Z
a. Agri business'                                               3.24      1,120     70.74     11,600    151.10      18,731    210.00     24,232    112.00      11,593      37.79       4,297       580.23
b. Industries                                                   1.28       441       7.55      1,238     33.20       4,235     51.00      6,037     42.00       4,623      13.13       1,893       15V0:8
c. Livestock                                                    0.44       153       6.19      1,015     19.40       2,461     29.00      3,434      15.00      1,594      10.18       1,203        862        :
d. Services                                                     0.50        172      5.46        896     22.00       2,876     40.00      4,868     28.00       2,950      12.25       1,441  -       142
e. Other                                                        0.03         12      0.79        129      0.20        112       0.96        102      2.00          84       0.25          29
2. Recoveries (Capital)                                           1.00                10.00                 63.00               202.00                165.00                  101.3
3. Recovery Rate PO to NDTF                                          100%                 97%                   100%                 97%                   97%                   97%                       97%
4. Recover Rate Beneficiary to PO                                    100%                  93%                  93%                   NA
5. MED Training Program                                                                                                                                                                                     =
a. Skill Development                                                                                      0.67         42      0.22          14      1.20         101                     83
b. Training of Trainers                                                                                   0.32          3      0.10           1                                                      OA2
c. Other                                                                                           7      3.42        228      0.84          56      0.21          37                     38 *       4v 4         , U
6. Partner Organizations                                                       4                    36                  101                                         149                   149
I ncludes seasonal cultivation loans
Source: Planning & Monitoring Dept.
in
is ;
o t
inR



Table 5b: Project Performance Indicators per Component (Human Resource Development)
1991           1992                 1993                 1994                 1995                  1996             Jan97-Jun97
Main Functional areas                            Rs(m)No  Rs ()          N1o.     RS (m)      NO.      RS (m) s    NO )   RS (m)        N O       Rs (m)    No.'       Rs (m) I   No.
1. No.of Div.Secretarat Divisions                   -    -                  162                  270                 270                   270                  245                     52
2. Numberof PO Staff Training Programs              -    -       2.70        18     10.40          81     9.80         94      1.80         1 1                  -         0.10          1
3. Number of PO Training Participants                                       894                2,570                4,815                  577                                          42
4. Number of Beneficiary Training Programs                                   13     30.70         109   131.90        906     83.30        939     55.70         -         5.40      1,105
5. Number of Beneficiary Training Participants                              351                3,242               24,632               23,055                                      22,745
4.BENEFICIARIES
Groups Formed                                                           1,026                 6,534              37,727                46,565               59,464                25,833
No. of Members                                    -     -6,156                              39,204              241,101               285,321              365,074                752
a. Males                                                                3,694               15,682               91,618              108,422               105,923                49,930
b. Females                                                              2,462               23,522              149,483              176,899              259,151                127,593
5. Savings Mobilized                                            0.36                 1.25                71.74               129.12                176.4                    94
6. Human Resources Developers*-                                             342                1,089                1,507                 1,449                1,068                   240
7. Other Field Workers-                                                                          127                 850                  1,130                  425                 1,632
8. Programme Coordinators**                                                                       46                  170                  278                   320                    64
9. Parner Organizations                                                     162                   33                   72                   69                    62                    22
Source: Plnning & Monitodnn Det
Employees of Partner Organizations
Source: Planning & Mon;tor;nq Dept.
t.
kX~P



Table 5c: Project Performance Indicators per Component (Rural Works)
1991            1992                 1993                 1994                 1995                   1996             Jan97-Jun97                  TOTAL
Main Functional areas                             Rs (m INo  Rs (m)                        I   No.       Rs (()     |No                    .        Rs (m) I   No.        Rs (m) I   No.
1. No. of Projects Commenced/initiated             39.35   #    128.10       326    276.67         854    430.20      1,024    219.20         649    95.13         415      131.95        639       i              -  38 5
2. No. of Projects Completed                       30.11   #    99.52        252    188.50         567    250.53        625    107.37         331    57.37          279       5.65         27
3. No. of Projects On Going                         5.65   8     26.28        68      74.98        223    143.46        307     99.22         283    37.10          131     126.30        612   7 $Z9&
4. No. of Projects Cancelled                        3.59   3      2.30          6     13.39         64     36.21         92      12.61          35     0.66          5.0       -                      p2es
5.BENEFICIARIES
No. of Temp. Employment - Person days                                                                            1,524,866               315,414               681,455             1,128,558         .. .,    . .
No. of Direct Beneficiaries -Families                                                                              219,403               150,310               131,498               190,455
Paid female participation (Cumulative)                                                                                33%                   34%                   39%                   40%,
Unpaid female participation (Cumulative)                                                                              50%                   55%                   58%                   59%
6. Materal/Labor ratio                                                                            48:52                48:52                 48:52                 53:47                 53:47
7. Partner Organizations                                                                           149                   204                  235                    99                     41
No. of NGO/CO/CBO                                                           15                    22                   52                    77                    80                     0       *       .
No. of DS/PS (govt)1                                                        53                   127                  152                   158                    19                    41 
Source: Plannina & Monitorina Deot
1. Divisional Secreterats and Pradeshiya Sabhas
Source: Plannina & Monitorna Dept
oD
kq    0



Table 5d: Project Performance Indicators per Component (Women and Child Nut_tion)
1991           1992                 1993                 1994                 1995                   1996            Jan97-Jun97                     TAL
Main Functional areas                            Rs (m|N         R(m )  No  o.    Rs (mi)     No.       Rs (m)    No. .     Rs                   Rsm(mI)     No. s        (i)       No.
GNDs                 GNDs                GNDs                  GNDs                 GNDs
1. Basic Nutrition Program                                                                                7.00        358    14.00         1280    54.50        2747      46.00       2350
2. lndepth Program                                              2.00        220    10.00          298    40.00       1506    52.00         1806    82.56        18064     20.50       1690
. raining Programs or votunteers    I ora-                 -                                             5.9_         _3      1._0 11
a. Agriculture & Animal Husbandry                                                                       1.00         20     0.30           3      0.13           6
b. Eaiy Childhood Development                                                                           1.00         13     0.40           4      0.14           6
c. Pre-School Training                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~2.00  1 1   0.60           3
d. Health & Sanitation                                                                                  1.90         19     0.30            1     0.07           5
4. Gender Sensitization Training                    -                                                     1.50         60      1.50          60     0.50          34
b  ar ner Organizations-                               -
Basic                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72 (SM partners)  52                  86
lndepth                                              ~~         ~         ~~~~~~~16  22         44                   44403
Reduction of serious malnutrition (In-depth Avg)                                                                    48%                  30%                   25%                   23%
Avg. Participation rate of mothers & children                                                                                            78%                   85%                   87%
Avg. incidence of Low Birth Weight                                                                                                       19%                   16%                   14%
No. of children under 5yrs        (Basic)                                                                          9,3081              41,434               123,000               193,440
(lndepth),               99,3331                                          169,800               260,000              146,283               101,588
Notes:
^ GND - Grama Niladhari Division
2. Esfimated expenditure in 3000 GNDs
3. Esftmated expenditure in 1806 GNDs
4. Includes 284 Samurdhi Link Community Projects
Source: Plannina & Monitoring Dept.
to
Q 80
08



- 78 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The major project objectives were to:
* increase income earning opportunities among the poor; and
*  improve the malnutrition status of pregnant and lactating mothers, and children under 3 years
of age (raised at project mid-term to 5 years of age).
To achieve these goals, the project included five sub-objectives:
*  re-orient and expand existing institutional capacity to serve the poor, and create additional
capacity;
*  develop credit and other services for promoting self-employment and micro-enterprise
development through group-based lending and entrepreneurial development;
-  expand productive wage employment for the poor through technically, economically and
socially viable rural works projects;
*  develop programs for nutrition interventions for malnourished children and pregnant and
lactating mothers; and
*  create policy research and program formulation capacity within GOSL to take greater
account of poverty and unemployment issues in overall growth policies and public
investment projects. In addition, the project aimed to emphasize gender concerns by
promoting female participation in project activities and benefits.



- 79 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Monitoring Outcomes
Project performance was hampered by the lack of a sound monitoring mechanism. NDTF
failed to develop a systematic monitoring system which would could track project progress in a
consistent manner. The lack of integration between the four trust Funds (CMED, HRDF, RWF,
and NF) resulted in each using separate methodologies and indicators for monitoring. Guidelines
on monitoring based on project objectives and indicators provided by the Bank were agreed upon
with.NDTF at the mid-term review. However, NDTF failed to use these indicators consistently.
The preoccupation with NGO/PO misconduct led NDTF to focus more on financial procedures to
the sacrifice of project outcomes and the quality of performance. Due to this intense scrutiny of
financial matters, delays in processing SOEs occurred regularly, resulting in implementation
delays in the field, and a lag in the availability of up-to-date data. During the last three years of
the project, NDTF was able to strengthen monitoring of financial procedures, making them more
efficient and flexible, and establish standardized planning and budgeting procedures. While
NGO/POs selection and performance criteria were also developed at that point, they were not
used consistently to measure NGO performance. Instead, additional criteria beyond the project
were developed in 1996 and used to discontinue contracts with the majority of HRD NGO/POs.
Indicators and Methods
The absence of monitoring indicators and a clearly defined monitoring plan in the SAR
contributed to confusion over monitoring priorities within NDTF. Initially, NDTF had developed
an elaborate field monitoring system and identified a cadre of Regional Coordinators (RCs)
whose role entailed visiting field sites and identifying weaknesses of different NGO/POs. Since
it lacked conceptual clarity on the supportive and corrective role of monitoring, NDTF had
developed the function of RCs more as a controlling rather than constructive mechanism.
NGO/POs were often in fear of the verdict of the RC, which was more subjective than systematic
and objective. In addition to the field supervision by RCs, NDTF staff made surprise visits to
field visits in the hope of detecting mistakes. The preoccupation with NGO/PO performance
detracted attention from monitoring beneficiary impact. This approach to monitoring was not
conducive to collaborative efforts between NDTF and NGO/POs, and discouraged the proper use
of monitoring to enhance progress, minimize problems, and determine the impact of project
interventions on beneficiaries.
Failure to Integrate Monitoring and Data Analysis
NDTF did not fully integrate monitoring and data analysis due to four reasons: a) the
monitoring system was not used as a tool by management to identify strengths and weaknesses;
b) meaningful indicators which would have captured the range of interventions, their qualitative
and quantitative impact were not developed; and c) the separation of component trust funds
within the NDTF caused each fund to collect its data independently of each other. These factors
weakened the management information system and impaired the overall analysis of project
effectiveness, efficiency and impact.



- 80 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Lack of Institutional Capacity for Project Monitoring
Several factors weakened NDTF's efforts to develop NGO/PO capacity in monitoring
progress: a) NDTF was more preoccupied with its controlling function rather than in fostering a
constructive dialogue with NGO/POs in monitoring performance; b) the absence of a consultative
and constructive approach to monitoring activities; c) the failure to develop standardized
indicators for measuring progress; and d) a focus on accounting and financial reporting which
limited the scope of monitoring and placed more emphasis on routine matters rather than on
quality and impact.
Department of National           Though the
NDTFA                     Planning/PMU         monitoring system of
NDTF has improved
throughout the project,
C4      @§ -0/  E                                           it is still not adequate
to assess the projects'
1 1s (D                                    effectiveness and its
impact on the poor.
The monitoring system
1. NDTF, an apex organization, interacts with NGOs/POs and beneficiaries to monitor and  was not used as a tool
assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the project activities to alleviate poverty. NDTF  for decision-making,
approves NGO/PO sub-project annual workplans and budgets.
2. NDTF monitors NGO/PO activities based upon which it makes operational decisions.  mainly because timely
3. NGO/PO delivers services to beneficiary and monitors progress      data analysis were not
4. NDTF periodically monitors beneficiaries through regional coordinators to assess project
performance and impact                                             available at many
5. PMU collects information for national indicators and develops strategies  instances of the project
life. Better interaction
and information exchange between NDTF and NGOs/POs would have improved the capacity to
assess implementation performance.
National Poverty Monitoring by EPPU/PMU
This was relatively the most successful component of monitoring activity. The
EPPU/PMU had a broader mandate than NDTF in monitoring poverty. EPPU/PMU had the task
of monitoring and evaluating the overall trends, magnitudes and challenges to poverty.
Monitoring and evaluation of NDTF, NGO/POs and beneficiaries was only one part of this
broader aim. EPPU/PMU implemented a number of studies, covering a variety of poverty and
employment related topics. These studies substantially deepened understanding of various
dimensions of poverty in the country. EPPU/PMU also collaborated with Universities, which
were often the only institutions where adequate research skills were available.
International Technical Assistance
International technical assistance provided to strengthen NDTF's monitoring system had
a limited impact due to weak management within NDTF



- 81 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Lessons Learned
*  A rigorous monitoring system is essential to tracking progress, understand constraints and
identify strengths. Such a monitoring system could have contributed to greater collaboration
between NDTF and NGO/POs and strengthened project performance.
*  A constructive rather than controlling approach to monitoring by NDTF would have yielded
more honest and accurate assessments and resulted in better data that would have enabled the
project to measure overall outcomes in a more comprehensive manner.
*  The use of standardized indicators and measures rather than subjective criteria in supervision
and monitoring would have helped NDTF produce more rational assessments of
performance.
*  A focus on beneficiary impact would have yielded a better understanding of the household
impact of project interventions, particularly in assessing the extent to which the project
succeeded in helping the poor exit poverty through each of the four Funds.
*  Capacity building of NGO/POs in monitoring and evaluation needs to be an important part of
project start-up activities.
*  The project should have established baseline measures at project start-up which would have
been useful in making comparisons with subsequent benchmark surveys (e.g. at mid-point
and at project closure).
*  Greater use of research skills available in universities and research institutes would have
substantially strengthened monitoring activity.



- 82 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
TARGETING, PARTICIPATION AND SOCIAL MOBILIZATION
Targeting, Participation and Social Mobilization Outcomes
Project approaches to targeting the poor and ensuring their participation, especially that
of low-income women, was moderately successful. By the final quarter of project
implementation, September 1997, evidence from project components and beneficiary surveys
indicated that project benefits were captured primarily by the intended beneficiaries. Data from
the Rural Works component, for example, shows that at least 75% of direct beneficiaries of rural
works throughout the project life had been households with incomes below SLR1,500 (US$25)
(the income criteria used for targeting at project design). Similarly, as shown below in Table 4.1,
the NGO-Beneficiary Assessment in 1997 revealed that the per capita average consumption
expenditure among a sample of 3,000 beneficiaries surveyed was SLR500 (US$8) monthly, well
within the consumption level of SLR755 estimated to be the poverty line in 1996.1
Table 4.1 Targeting Efficiency Indicators
Source                       Indicators
Rural Works Fund records     28% beneficiaries = income below SLR700(US$12)
September 1997               32% beneficiaries = income SLR700-1,000 (US$12-17) (food
stamp holders)
15% beneficiaries = income SLR1,000 - 1,500(US$17-25)
NGO-Beneficiary Assessment   per capita average consumption expenditure in 1997 among a
October-December 1997        sample of 3,000 beneficiaries = SLR500(US$8)
Mechanisms for Targeting the Poor
The Sri Lanka Poverty project was designed with the targeting criterion of monthly
income below SLR700 (US$12), following the eligibility criterion for the Janasaviya Program,
GOSL's entitlement program for the poor at the time of project design. The local administrative
authority, the Grama Niladari, was expected to provide income certification as verification.
Beneficiary eligibility was determined in this manner for the most part, while some NGO/POs
used additional screening criteria such as household assets and living conditions. The Nutrition
Fund developed a more comprehensive targeting method consisting of village surveys which
identified the poor based on health, nutritional status, assets and income.
Targeting Efficiency
Targeting efficiency was generally sound. The high proportion of unskilled labor (92%
of the labor days deployed) engaged in rural works construction suggests self-selection by the
majority of participants within the target group (who would otherwise have little access to formal
and regular work elsewhere). The relatively significant voluntary labor contribution (28%)
' See Aturupane, Rodrigo and Perera, Poverty Among Female Headed Households, Ministry of Plan Implementation, 1996.



- 83 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
further suggests the participation of low-income beneficiaries who were concerned about
improving the rural infrastructure in their communities. Targeting mechanisms built in at the
inception of nutrition field interventions, ensured that only the poorest and most needy
households (based on a combination of income, assets and health/nutritional status) were
identified as participants. However, the extent to which the project may not have targeted the
truly needy and the poorest is unclear. A poverty mapping process which would have identified
and prioritized the poverty pockets in the country would have ensured better targeting efficiency.
Strategies for Ensuring Beneficiary Participation
Recognizing the low sustainability of traditional welfare approaches to poverty
alleviation, the project strategy rested on a participatory approach based on group formation in
low-income communities2. The project design drew upon the Bank's previous lessons with
disenfranchised stakeholders in earlier development activities, whose lack of participation had
minimized commitment, ownership and project sustainability. Evidence from these experiences
have shown that the poor generally cannot articulate their needs and have little power to
command resources beyond their own labor. The Bank has since begun to formalize the
participation process as a precursor to investment so as to reduce inequities and inefficiencies
arising from inadequate involvement of beneficiaries (particularly those with little political or
economic power). The project's participation strategy entailed small groups consisting of 7-10
beneficiaries who met regularly, discussed their needs and priorities and formulated plans for
specific development activities, including rural works, savings and credit, micro-enterprises and
nutrition interventions.
Participation Outcomes
The participatory strategy of small- group formation has resulted in the mobilization of
nearly 180,000 households in 270 Divisional Secretariat Areas3. The NGO-Beneficiary survey4
1997 shows that a substantial proportion of beneficiaries (98%) reported acquiring membership
in such a community small-group for the first time, with 93% reporting that they had begun
regular savings only after being formally organized into these small-groups. The findings of this
study also reveal that the intended outcome of enhancing the ability of the poor to undertake
group economic and development activities has been achieved. Approximately 87% of group
members are engaged in joint economic activities while 95% are involved in community cultural
activities. There is also evidence from several sites that NGO/PO efforts to increase the
participation of beneficiaries in identifying and managing micro-projects (both for income
generation and rural works)5 enhanced the relevance of most projects for the poor. -Similarly, in
about 89% of project villages (in the study sample) community infrastructure projects had been
selected and constructed with full community participation. While female participation in every
2 See the Staff Appraisal Report, p.17.
There are a total of 300 DSAs in Sri Lanka, and essentially this means that a coverage of 90% of DSAs was achieved at peak project
operation, up to 1995.
NGO-Beneficiary Assessment, 1997.
5 As compared to the early years of the project when, in the absence of NGO/POs willing to participate in the project, much of this
work was coordinated through local govemment, resulting in top-down, rather than demand-driven projects.



- 84 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
project component was generally high (approximately 72% of small-group membership; see
Annex V), the adequacy of the assiptance provided to ensure exit from poverty needs to be
evaluated. Similarly, it is important to assess the extent to which the poorest and most
marginalized in target communities have participated.
Entry-Exit Mechanisms
Entry6 and exit7 criteria for participation had been defined in the SAR (p. 19), but were
not revised with the change of entitlement programs, on which such criteria was based.
Therefore, entry and exit criteria were not used rigorously by the project, nor were there attempts
to test the most appropriate exit mechanisms for beneficiaries (e.g., the duration of assistance to
ensure optimal capacity and self-reliance built among beneficiaries), which would avoid a
dilution of the benefits from assistance provided. Objective measures and indicators to determine
the length, and extent of assistance required in different socio-economic contexts was not
developed by the project. As a result, it is difficult to determine to what extent beneficiary
capacity has been achieved to influence the direction and execution of their own development,
rather than merely receiving a share of project benefits and relying on external assistance.
Techniques for Social Mobilization of the Poor
Appropriate targeting methods and participation strategies are the first steps in the
process toward empowering the poor. The process of social mobilization is an intermediary step
which enhances the social capital of poor communities by strengthening the organizational and
financial capacities of the poor and building their capacity to act on their behalf. The project
anticipated diverse outcomes of the social mobilization process: increased awareness, self-
reliance and bargaining power particularly of low-income women, ability of beneficiaries to
prioritize their needs and develop strategies to meet them, launch income-generating activities
and sustain their development efforts once outside assistance is withdrawn.
Social Mobilization Outcomes
The relative gains of the social mobilization strategy have been assessed via two
beneficiary surveys, one conducted in January 1996, and another nearly two years later, in
October-December 1997. The findings of these surveys strongly suggest the reasonable success
of social mobilization outcomes. The findings of these surveys need to be treated with a few
reservations, given that they reflect beneficiary statements (which may discount a host of
6The entry criteria for beneficiaries defined at project start-up was income levels -- defined as SLRI,458 per household, parallel to
those in the Janasaviya Program (JSP). Additional criteria were agreed upon between the Bank, GOSL, NDTF and NGOs/POs in the
early stages of project implementation: a) Grama Niladari certificates attesting to the income levels of beneficiaries to ensure that
they were below the poverty line; and b) health/nuttition levels and household assets criteria used by the nutrition division of the
project.
lThe exit mechanisms for beneficiaries defined in the SAR were: a) beneficiaries would graduate from the program within the two-
year JSP entitlement period as soon as the fanily's income level reaches SLRI ,500 per month on a sustained basis; and b) those
refusing (at any point) to participate in a productive activity would be dropped from the program and become eligible for food stamps
only.



- 85 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
intervening variables affecting their perceptions, economic and social standing). However, in the
absence of alternate methodologies which may fully capture the intangible benefits of social
mobilization, such beneficiary assessments provide data from which lessons can be drawn about
project processes.
Prioritizing Needs and Undertaking Group Action
In the 1997 NGO-Beneficiary Assessment, for example, about 21% of groups
interviewed claimed they had made representations to local politicians and local administrators
on their interests. While NGO intermediaries attribute a much higher (57%) incidence of
collective representation, these figures need to be interpreted with caution. Nonetheless, given
that the incidence of such group action by low-income groups is otherwise minimal, it is clear
that at least this percentage of groups had been able to profit from the social mobilization process.
Similarly, beneficiaries in 89% of villages had reported full participation in selecting rural
infrastructure projects. This finding provides significant evidence of enhanced ability of
beneficiaries to prioritize their needs. Commenting on the process, 94% of beneficiaries reported
that they would use similar processes for repeat projects, 94% indicated that the selected rural
works projects improved the infrastructure quality in their communities, and 96% gave a positive
approval rating for these projects.
Sustainability of Interventions
The sustainability of project interventions vary from project component to component.
One of the clearest indicators of sustainability is the survival rate of small-groups formed in low-
income communities. Data from the 1997 survey reveals that according to NGO estimates, an
average of 80% of small-groups are still in existence, despite the withdrawal of NGO mediation
around August 1996, as per project decrees. The 1997 NGO-Beneficiary Assessment further
revealed that nearly one third (27%) of the savings generated by beneficiaries in 1996
(approximately $2.9 million) was used for investing in income generating activities, and that a
higher proportion of micro-enterprises (37%) survived over three years (bringing in higher
returns to expenditure). Similarly, in the nutrition fund, 92% of female beneficiaries who
participated in weaning-food preparation training reported using this knowledge subsequently on
a continual basis. Similarly a high proportion of women (84%) who participated in general
nutrition training reported using this knowledge continually.
Lessons-Learned
Community participation builds-in a sense of ownership by project beneficiaries,
enhancing the sustainability of outcomes. In Sri Lanka, it is clear that capacity building
processes such as social mobilization, which strengthen the leadership and collective action
potential of community groups, supported the development effectiveness of social fund activities.
In sum, the key lessons for Sri Lanka are:



- 86 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
*  a more rigorous method of poverty mapping to identify and prioritize the poorest pockets in
the country would have made targeting more efficient, and facilitated periodic assessments;
*  the participatory approaches adopted by NGOs/POs as compared to local government,
particularly in rural works construction have been more demand-led and client responsive
yielding tangible and intangible benefits to beneficiaries;
*  despite a few weaknesses in promoting participation through NGOs/POs as intermediaries,
the project has served as a pioneering model to demonstrate the benefits of participatory
processes by mobilizing previously under-served low-income communities and tapping their
productive potential;
*  clear guidelines for entry-exit of beneficiaries would have served in making maximum use of
limited resources, NGOs/POs assistance, and enabled further capacity building and self-
reliance among low-income groups; and
periodic and objective evaluation of the rate and quality of participation, including by women
and poorest/marginalized groups, would have been useful in measuring and ensuring
equitable access on one hand, and desired empowerment outcomes on the other.



- 87-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
GENDER OUTCOMES
Summary of Achievements
The project has partially met the expected outputs on assistance to women as listed in the
SAR, due mostly to the initiative of low-income women and NGO efforts. NDTF failed to
develop a mandate and procedures to ensure gender integration in project activities, and provide
sufficient resources to support such activities. However, the low opportunity cost of project
participation for low-income women promoted relatively high involvement in the project's social
mobilization, rural works, CMED and nutrition activities.
Consistency with CAS Priorities
Gender related actions were consistent with priorities set out in the CAS, although within
the limited scope of project objectives and interventions. Access to financial services helped low-
income women to expand and improve their productive potential. Nutrition intervention programs
improved the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women and children under 5 years in
low-income communities. About 72 percent of small group members mobilized and engaged in
groups savings activities were female, according to data available through the NDTF's HRD
fund. Membership in small-groups formed in their villages helped women pool their resources,
generate savings, and invest in income-generating activities. Cooperative networks of trust and
support enhanced women's awareness of ways to use their skills and obtain assistance from local
administrative authorities. In many instances, the small-group savings had helped low-income
women escape the cycle of indebtedness to local money-lenders, and better meet their
consumption expenses, and emergency expenditures.
Improved Gender Data
Several research activities undertaken by the EPPU/PMU improved understanding of the
extent of poverty among women, factors accounting for high unemployment among females, and
on gender and poverty issues. Statistics on the social and economic situation of women were
more readily available in the country through the Department of Census and Statistics and the
Centre for Research on Women (CENWOR), as a result of heightened national concern over
gender issues, although not entirely or exclusively through specific project efforts. However,
NDTF has been inconsistent in tracking female participation and in maintaining gender
desegregated data.
Improved Capacity to Address Gender Issues
National capacity to address gender and poverty issues has been moderately enhanced via
the project. Approximately 30 percent of NGO partners have received training on gender
analysis and methodologies to address gender and poverty issues. A number of NGO staff and
field workers have been trained in methodologies to evaluate gender differentials in project
participation rates and the quality and impact of women's participation in project activities on
their lives. Such training provided to about one third of the NGOlPOs and their field staff has



- 88 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
improved local capacity to pay particular attention to the social and economic needs of poor
women. However, further efforts are needed to further improve awareness of these issues and
expand local capacity to address them. Prior to the gender training provided by the project, only
a few leading Colombo-based NGOs in Sri Lanka (notably, CENWOR, WERC 1 ) had knowledge
and methodologies for gender analysis. Moreover, these NGOs were mostly research oriented
and their strengths were more analytical, with limited operational coverage. A gender
practitioner's methodology was pioneered in Sinhala through the project and gender training
provided in Sinhala to a large number of NGO/POs through the project (partly by CENWOR),
has expanded the knowledge and capacity base in the country.
Access to Credit and Viable Micro-enterprise Development
A higher percentage of females (57%) than males accessed credit via the CMED, which
helped them by-pass local money-lenders charging exorbitant interest rates. Yet, the extent to
which such access helped low-income women improve their incomes and exit poverty is unclear,
due to the lack of project data. Further assessment is required to ascertain whether meaningful
and sustainable increases in income levels have been achieved by the majority of participating
women. Only about one third of female borrowers were able to manage and operate
commercially successful micro-enterprises over three years (according to the 1997 beneficiary
survey data). Insufficient preparation for micro-enterprise development and management were
partly responsible for this low performance record.
Skills Development Training
About 51,000 low-income women (72% of trainees) were provided skills training,
according to NDTF project records. However, the project failed to provide relevant
complimentary skills to support CMED (e.g. technical, managerial and accounting, and
marketing skills).
Human Resource Development
The HRDF's social mobilization activities resulted in a number of intangible benefits
which helped low-income women improve their productivity and minimize gender disparities.
The process of social mobilization contributed to building social capital in otherwise fragmented
and isolated low-income communities. Data from a beneficiary survey of approximately 4000
households in 5 project districts revealed that: a) improved knowledge of how best to tap into
local resources and local administrative channels, gained through the social mobilization process,
enhanced women's bargaining power, helping women improve their lives and income
opportunities; b) increased self-reliance gained through small-group participation gave women
courage to try innovative ways to generate income; c) women reported that they now had a more
positive outlook, more control over their lives and a sense of empowerment; and d) women's
increased awareness of economic and social issues led to more decision-making influence by
low-income women, particularly on the allocation of household resources. In many settings,
these women succeeded in reducing their spouses' expenditure on alcohol and tobacco, and used
'Centre for Research on Women, and Women's Education and Research Council



- 89 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
it for much needed household expenditure, in particular, children's education. Some women also
reported that they were able to take action against domestic violence as a result of their enhanced
decision-making power.
Rural Works
The gender objective of ensuring that Rural Works involved women in construction and
in wage-employment was partly achieved. According to NDTF project data nearly two fifths (39
percent) of those engaged in wage employment for RW were women, while over three-fifths
(61%) of the voluntary (unpaid) labor contribution was by women. More males (58%) than
females (42%) were employed, while conversely, nearly twice as many females (66%) than
males (34%) participated in unpaid labor. This gender differentiated pattern of labor utilization in
RW activities suggested that the energies and labor of low-income women were harnessed and
contributed disproportionately to RW construction, which was however, unmatched by economic
rewards that should have been reaped for their high participation.
Nutrition, Fund
Nutrition interventions in the project reached 3.4 million households, including pregnant
and lactating women. The nutrition interventions had important positive benefits for low-income
women. Enhanced community awareness of the consequences of low maternal malnutrition
helped improve some customary practices. Nutrition education programs targeted to low income
mothers accumulated a store of knowledge within the community on factors associated with child
malnutrition. At many project sites, low-income women began to reinforce the nutrition
message, resulting in improved nutritional practices due to peer pressure.
Impact on Gender Disparities
The project has contributed to reducing some gender disparities existing in project areas.
However, assistance to low-income women has not happened in a consistent manner throughout
the life-time of the project or been sufficient to help low-income women exit poverty. Moreover,
the lives of low-income women improved not mainly due to systems and strategies developed
within NDTF, but more as a result of the effective outreach of NGOs and initiatives on the part of
poor women themselves. Nonetheless, the project set in motion a process of change and
introduced novel concepts and strategies for mobilizing women in low-income communities.
These processes were instrumental in building social capital among the poor, an essential pre-
requisite to reducing poverty and improving incomes in poor communities. For example, the
provision of financial services to low income women through the Credit Fund helped improve
household income levels and savings.
Gender Issues in Sri Lanka
Despite Sri Lanka's commitments to universal education and primary health care (which have
resulted in favorable health and education indicators), poverty has imposed certain limitations in



- 90 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
access to these services by low income women. In many rural areas, for example, girls are more
often kept back from school to assist with household chores at peak harvest and cultivation
cycles. Similarly, self-neglect and skewed patterns of intra-household food allocation has
lowered the health and nutrition levels of low-income women, as compared to women of average
incomes. These factors combined with their lower access to resources, has hindered the
productivity potential and limited the quality of life of low-income women.



-91 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND NGO PARTNERS
Institutional Development and Capacity Building Outcomes
The project objective of re-orienting and expanding the then existing institutional capacity to serve
the poor, and of creating additional capacity was only partially met. As a result of JTF's efforts to bring in
NGOs as intermediary agencies, by the mid-term review of the project,over 200 NGOs had begun working
with the project and were involved in one or more of the project components. The NDTF's Human
Resource Development (HRD) Fund was responsible for meeting the institutional development objectives of
the project. For the most part, these objectives fell short of their expected outcomes, largely due to the
perception of NGOs as adversaries rather than partners. As a result, there was only limited funding and
support for institutional development, minimizing the success of the HRD Fund. The capacity of small
NGO/POs to expand their coverage, or the opportunity for relatively successful NGOs to replicate their
mobilization strategies remained static throughout the life-time of the project. For the most part, NGO/POs
were successful in identifying the poor, forming them into small groups and engaging in social mobilization
activities. Despite the tenuous relationship with the NDTF, NGO/POs efforts in mobilizing low-income
communities yielded successes, largely due to the high commitment levels of most NGOs, their closeness
and prior history with low-income communities, and the resulting sense of obligation to meet the needs of
the latter. Beneficiary reports from assessments conducted in 1995/96 and 1997 attest to the gains of the
social mobilization strategy, particularly among the majority of project participants (over 70%) who were
female (discussed further in annex V). Nonetheless, limited efforts in capacity building has minimized the
outcomes of institutional development.
Factors Contributing to Limited Outcomes
There were several reasons for this outcome:
*  An environment of distrust was created among NGOs due to the NGO Commission appointed by GOSL
in 1991, coinciding with project inception. This prevented NDTF assuming a facilitating, partnership
role with NGOs.
*  Rather than encouraging efforts and supporting activities which would strengthen and develop the
capacity of NGO/POs, NDTF continuously assumed a controlling role, policing and scrutinizing NGO
activities.
*  Due to lack of clarity on how best to reach the poor and the importance of building social capital in low-
income communities, the NDTF opted for short-cut methods, which detracted from the full potential of
the institutional development objectives. For example, training programs for micro-enterprise
development were often irrelevant to the needs and opportunities available to the poor, and were
sometimes inadequate in providing the appropriate and sufficient skills to ensure the sustainability of
micro-enterprises.
* The NDTF underestimated the complexity, the human resources inputs and time required to mobilize
poor and develop the capacity of small-groups. Thus, insufficient training was made available to field
staff working in poor communities, and there was no mechanism to take advantage of the lessons-
learned from the field as the project progressed.



- 92 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
The Role of Intermediary Agencies in Mobilizing and Delivering Services to the Poor
The project design entailed a clear role for the non-governmental sector in mobilizing and
facilitating access to resources and services to the poor. This strategy was developed with the recognition
that then existing government programs faced resource and coverage limitations to organize the poor and
build the capacity of low-income communities. This strategy was also in keeping with emerging evidence
on the success of participatory approaches, and the failure of centralized agencies which used top-down
planning to reach the poor. However, the project faced the challenge of building the institutional capacity of
the NGO sector, much of which had diverse capacity levels, except for the leading NGO at the time, --
Sarvodaya, with substantial community development experience.
History of NGO Involvement in Project Activities
The project design had envisaged a major role for Sarvodaya in reaching and organizing the poor.
In terms of credit delivery, the SAR identified TCCS, RRDBs, Sarvodya SEEDs, NYSCO and a few other
select NGOs as the most promising. By project inception, however, an NGO commission of inquiry had
been launched by GOSL and many NGOs, particularly Sarvodaya was reluctant to participate in project
implementation. Thus, in the first two years of project implementation, the Janasaviya NDTF Fund as the
project implementing agency was called then, relied largely on local administration (Divisional Secretariats),
and a cadre of approximately 1,500 field workers it recruited directly. With increasing Bank
encouragement, JTF made an effort to woo the NGO sector to participate as partner organizations. The
initial independent start, however, had instilled a perception of NGOs as outsiders among JTF staff, who
adopted a controlling rather than a collaborative role with NGO/POs.
Lessons Learned
There are several lessons to be drawn from the efforts of the project to develop institutional capacity
through the involvement of the NGO sector.
*  A pilot phase would have served useful in defining the most effective techniques and strategies for
making an outreach to the poor, organizing them and developing the capacity of small groups in low-
income communities. Such a pilot effort would have also helped determine the general human resource
inputs, and time investments required to achieve project objectives.
*  A more comprehensive assessment of the NGO capacity at project design and inception stages would
have provided a better idea of the diverse sets of skills and range of competencies existing in the NGO
sector. Such an assessment would have been useful in determining the kind of NGO capacity building
required and the approximate costs of such an effort.
*  An exit strategy for NGO assistance would have been invaluable for NGO/POs as well as beneficiaries,
in providing a mutually agreed upon set of guidelines on the duration of assistance and benchmarks by
which to gage phasing out of assistance.
*  A collaborative and facilitating attitude towards NGO/POs on the part of the NDTF would have been
conducive to achieving mutual goals.
*  Encouragement of networking among NGO/POs to share lessons-learned experience and a leadership
role on the part of the NDTF in assessing field processes and outcomes from early on would have
helped the project to do mid-stream retrofitting as necessary.



- 93 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
NUTRITION INTERVENTIONS
Summary ofAchievements
The Nutrition Fund of the Sri Lanka Poverty Alleviation project has produced the most
successful outcomes, having met all project objectives and often exceeding SAR targets. At peak
project operation in 1996, the project provided coverage in 270 DSDs, in 18 of the country's 25
districts, reaching a population of approximately 4.3 million through the combined efforts two
programs: In-Depth and Basic. In the last quarter of 1996, participation rates of mothers had reached
89%. Levels of malnutrition among young children had been reduced by at least 25% in over 57% of
project sites, some sites reaching 50% reductions. The incidence of low-birth weight had been
reduced to 16% (from SAR benchmark of 25%), with some sites lowered to 14%.
Design Changes
One of the major factors contributing to the success of the Nutrition Fund is its innovative
design strategy which departed from the original SAR proposed design. The SAR guidelines for
nutrition interventions centered around on-site feeding of Thriposha to low-income mothers and
children, following the pilot project in Galewala implemented by the Ministry of Health (MoH).
However, by project inception, the Galewala experiment had been declared a failure, due primarily to
the reluctance of poor mothers to participate in on-site feeding. Cultural proscriptions and the loss-of-
face associated with public feeding programs had led to such non-participation. Moreover, the
production and distribution of Thriposha was erratic, since it was dependent on imported soya and
additives. Thus a re-orientation of strategy was required, and design changes more appropriate to the
nutrition problem in Sri Lanka were introduced by the Nutrition Fund.
In-Depth Program
Recognizing that Sri Lanka's nutrition problems were related more to behavioral factors
rather than food insecurity, the In-Depth nutrition program included a comprehensive set of
interventions intended to change child-feeding practices. It was a well targeted and multi-dimensional
strategy designed to improve mothers' understanding and knowledge of a range of factors affecting
nutritional status. The program included: nutrition counseling and training, growth promotion
activities, and education on sanitation, home gardens, livestock rearing and early childhood
development. The in-depth approach was a phased process, building on community participation and
accumulated wisdom, placing more emphasis on program quality and positive outcomes. It included
the following sequential steps:
1. Identification of malnourished children. Begins with the weighing and weight-plotting of all
children under five in the community by volunteers who have been trained on nutrition.
2. Identification ofpoor and nutritionally deprived households. Volunteer nutrition workers conduct
a household survey to identify the poor based on poverty and malnutrition: illness patterns,
income, education, occupation, sanitary facilities and the condition of residences.



- 94 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
3. Village mapping. The community develops a map of the village identifying malnourished
pregnant and lactating women, children under 5 and low birth weight babies.
4. Nutrition counseling and training. Participatory counseling/training for groups of mothers and
individual counseling at child weighing sessions.
5. Quarterly weight monitoring. Volunteer workers together with primary health care workers hold
quarterly weighing sessions to monitor weight gain of the vulnerable children.
6. Development of a community nutrition strategy. The most nutritionally deprived one third of the
households join in prioritizing their nutrition related problems (causes), strategies to remedy these
causal factors and to identify a community development project that would best address the
specific nutrition problem.
7. Planning and implementation of a community project. Volunteers together with mothers' groups
in the community plan and execute the community "project" they have identified (in most cases
construction of pre-schools), and initiate activities to raise funds.
Basic Program
The Basic program was designed in response to the pressure to expand coverage, particularly
since the phased process of the In-Depth approach was time consuming. It was a more generalized
and selective strategy which relied on NGO field staff to enhance community awareness of nutrition
issues and monthly weighing of children under five. The main elements of the Basic approach were:
I . Poverty/nutrition survey. The poorest and most nutritionally deprived one third of children under
five years are identified by NGO field staff.
2. Nutritional awareness promotion. Monthly training programs on weaning foods preparation and
feeding practices provided to the mothers of the target group of children.
3. Monthly growth monitoring. NGO field staff together with the (Ministry of Health) primary
health care workers conduct regular weight monitoring in each community.
4. Nutrition counseling, training, and supplementaryfeeding, similar to In-Depth program with
participation by a larger group of women in the community.
Outcomes and Achievements
Through the combined efforts of the In-Depth and Basic approaches, the Nutrition Fund
reached approximately 3.4 million mothers and children (about 20%-25% of the population in the
conflict-free areas of the country). At peak project operation in 1996, the In-Depth approach was
being applied by 45 NGOs working in 180 DSAs (over half the total number of DSAs in the country),
covering a population of well over a million, while the Basic approach was being implemented in 80
DSDs by 70 NGOs covering a population of over 2.4 million individuals. Because it was less
comprehensive, the Basic program was able to achieve wider coverage. In sum, the Nutrition Fund
has provided training to about 17,000 village-level workers and volunteers and to 15,000 mothers and
NGO staff. The incidence of malnutrition decreased by over 25% some project sites.



- 95 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
Special Features
The successes of the Nutrition Fund can be attributed to several special features which
enhanced outcomes. These include:
1. A focus on changing mother 'sfeeding behaviors rather than on food insecurity issues. At project
inception, there was little known about the behavioral practices that contributed to low nutritional
status, and the role that women themselves could play in remedying this situation. Furthermore,
there were misperceptions about the effectiveness of participatory approaches to improving
nutrition in low-income communities. The project helped simplify understanding of the nutrition
problem so that mothers realized the impact of their feeding practices on the nutritional status of
their children. With training on weaning food preparation, they were able to change their child
feeding practices.
2. Early identification of growth faltering Growth promotion activities, including growth
monitoring and training on weaning foods were designed to help a mother catch faltering growth
early enough so that she could change feeding and hygiene practices and improve the child's
growth pattern. Growth monitoring, through the monthly or quarterly weighing and weight
plotting helped improve mothers' awareness of a child's growth patterns and catch faltering
growth early on.
3. Counseling interventions tailored to the specific needs of the mother and child. Nutrition
counseling relied on one-on-one, face-to-face interaction to reinforce the nutrition messages. This
strategy had more currency with the target population than messages provided through the mass
media. Nutrition counseling and training was provided to low-income mothers to encourage
appropriate feeding practices (the right type of foods, feeding frequency, and timing for
introduction of semi-solids). This counseling was initially provided by trained volunteers and
experts, and gradually handed over to groups of mothers who were trained and ultimately served
as peer counselors to other mothers in the community.
4. Use of the growth chart serves as a diagnostic tool. The project has buiIt on and widened the
scope and effectiveness of the practice among MoH Primary health care workers, who use the
child growth chart as an entree for a dialogue on nutrition related behaviors. Initially, weighing
sessions simply alerted mothers to growth faltering (or conversely, commended them for weight
gain). Community volunteers and PHCs dispensed some quick advise on the need to ensure
proper nutrition and feed the child more. As the program evolved, the weighing sessions were
transformed into more comprehensive and participatory evaluation sessions. Mothers were asked
what their child feeding practices were, and alternate behaviors and their potential was discussed.
The weighing session permitted the use of the child's growth chart as a diagnostic tool.
5. Synchronized preventive and treatment approaches by focusing on: sanitation/diarrheal diseases,
home gardens/nutritious diets, early childhood development/training provided a well-rounded
comprehension of several nutrition related factors.



- 96 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
6. Integrated problem assessment and resolution at the community level by: a) engaging in a
participatory strategizing process to identify the community nutritional priorities and remedies;
and b) contributing to mothers' sense of enhanced self-esteem as they are perceived as the
repository of knowledge, information and in control of changing behaviors.
7. Emphasis on persuasive tactics as compared to fear inducing and prescriptive tactics employed
by health personnel. focusing on positive reinforcement of compliance to conducive practices (i.e.
women leaders encouraged to set an example by regular attendance at weighing sessions
generating the feeling among individual mothers that they do not want to be the only one "left
out" by not attending). For example, training sessions on weaning foods are structured in such a
way as to elicit information from mothers on their feeding practices, food avoidance and taboos
that they may adhere to. These sessions engage mothers in a discussion on daily household diets
of the household, including those of the target age children, and food preparation practices,
prompting them to reconsider misconceptions about food groups and the availability of
inexpensive nutritional foods within their communities.
8. Community mobilization by: a) a participatory poverty survey which raised community awareness
of the gravity of the nutritional problem and helped them to identify specific factors associated
with low nutrition and poverty; b) training a core cadre of community volunteers and "scholars";
c) forming women's groups who are instrumental in peer counseling, informal reinforcement of
key messages, and practical support in promoting behavioral change; and d) improving
community understanding of what practices contribute to and take away from sound nutrition
through a participatory process of group discussions, practical-hands on 'training' sessions and
other participatory educational/counseling programs.
9. A poverty and nutrition mapping exercise carried out jointly with the community anticipated a
visual placement of the vulnerable groups identified through the poverty survey: pregnant and
lactating women, children under 5 and low-birth-weight infants. Maps displayed at community
centers kept the community alerted to the vulnerable group of households.
Lessons Learned
The innovative approaches of the Nutrition Fund provides invaluable lessons for the
implementation of participatory nutrition interventions through social fund projects. Foremost among
them are:
1. The importance of supportive supervision, and continual monitoring. The Nutrition Fund had
developed a system of field supervision designed to identify field strengths and weaknesses
against a set of key indicators1. Program monitoring was made relatively easy and standardized
as a result, and permitted objective assessment of progress at field sites.
Percentage of children weighed, percentage of malnourished children (weight for age), percentage of low-birth
weight, participation rates at weighing sessions.



- 97 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
2. Hands-on, in-field training of volunteers and nutrition workers. Nutrition workers and volunteers
were provided on-site training which helped impart practical, hands-on understanding of the
problems, rather than theoretical knowledge alone.
3. The importance of building community capacity and creating "Buy-In" to ensure sustainability.
Built in mechanisms for community capacity building permitted community buy-in, enhancing the
prospects for sustainability. This was achieved by initiating a community dialogue based on: a)
respecting and acknowledging the work demands and cash needs of low-income women which
often influence their feeding practices and care giving practices ; b) attempting to understand the
rationale behind their behavioral choices rather than criticizing them; and c) engaging in a
participatory educational process rather than a top-down, one-way flow of information to elicit
behavioral change
4. The importance of creating community ownership by: a) making the community the center of the
focus rather than the medical outpost or the maternal clinic; b) conveying a sense of community
"'ownership" of the data on malnutrition, so that beneficiaries felt motivated to improve the data
over which they had control rather than external parties; c) eliciting information and solutions
from community members and thus giving them credibility and a sense of community ownership;
d) sensitivity to local realities (difficulties in the terrain in the hill country, drastic seasonal food
scarcities in Dry Zone communities, seasonal flooding in Wet Zone villages); e) identifying
volunteers within the community; and e) conducting weighing sessions at the community level.
Constraints and Weaknesses
Despite its achievements, there are several constraints and weaknesses which minimized the
overall successes of the Nutrition Fund. Much of these are attributable to weakened management and
commitment in NDTF towards the latter part of the project life.
I . Lack offocus on key messages in the nutrition communications strategy which would have
directed attention on the main issues: feeding practices, frequency and timing, growth monitoring,
nutrition content of diets. The nutrition counseling provided to mothers would have had more
impact if it had focused on a few key messages. The effectiveness of this counseling in prompting
behavior change may have been diluted somewhat because of the volume of information provided
to low-income mothers.
2. Competition with Thriposha. Depending on availability, the GOSL's supplementary food
program, Thriposha has been instrumental in bringing in mothers to maternal clinics and to ensure
good immunization coverage. However, there is sufficient evidence that Thriposha is not
positively correlated with child growth. Despite major problems with production, distribution,
targeting and household allocation, GOSL has been reluctant to discontinue it. Thriposha
contradicted the message of behavioral change and distracted attention on changing feeding
practices that the program was conveying. As such Thriposha may have acted as a disincentive
for chanlging mothers' customary behavioral practices.
3. Lack of coordination between line ministry and NGO staff has led to conflicts at some sites.
Primary Health Care workers have questioned the credentials and expertise of volunteer workers,
and felt that the latter were treading on their territory, resulting in program delays on occasion.



- 98 -
Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
4. Initial lack of commitment by government to the project approach toward nutrition.
The NDTF's nutrition interventions received little support by the government at the initial stages.
There was also an absence of promotional information highlighting the program success from the
nutrition Division itself. However, as the good results poured in, and as the Division developed
capacity to present and package its successes, the approach won credibility.
5. Attention only to wasting (weightfor age), to the neglect of stunting issues. The project
interventionis hiave focused primarily on growth monitoring based on weight-for-age rather than on
stunltinlg (height-for-age) issues.
6. Interruptions in fund-flow to NGOs and complex accounting procedures. Erratic fund flow
patterns due to NDTF's financial management hiccups affected the flow-of funds to NGO-POs,
and to disruptions in field activities. Similarly, in an effort to discourage the misuse-use of funds,
and because of the initial suspicion by Government of the motives of NGO-POs, elaborate and
often complex accounting procedures were developed. Small NGOs with limited staff and only
basic accounting skills found these procedures time consuming and cumbersome. An
unwi I] ,ingness on the part of the finance managers of the project to accommodate the capacity
building needs of such NGO-POs contributed to either their discontinuation as implementors, or
unldue delays at the field level.
7. Use af/mnonitoring data for mid-course corrections. The use of monitoring data for management
purposes (e.g. to identify strengths and weaknesses and build on the former while trying to
address the latter) has been uneven. During the tenure of the dynamic Director who had designed
the program, her conscientiousness ensured that monitoring data was used for management
decisions. Her regular field supervision visits enabled her to identify generic as well as specific
problems. Yet, upon her departure monitoring procedures became more personalized.
Weakniesses in program implementation provided ammunition for eliminating NGO-POs from the
project, rather than serving as a learinig opportunity. As a result of punitive actions against select
NGO-POs, the collaborative partnership developed initially by the Nutrition Fund was
undermii ined and the level of trust eroded.
8. Limiled attention to and insufficient interventions directed to address the generational cycle of
malnitrition. maternal weight gain and low-birth weight babies. Despite all good intentionis, the
program has not systematically and consistently addressed nor tracked maternal malnutrition as
well as it did child malnutrition. While nutrition counseling was provided to pregnant mothers,
tracking the incidence of low-birth weight babies was also not done consistently and regularly at
all sites.
9. Pressure from the Bank to disburse led to more emphasis placed on rapid expansion of the
Nutrition Fund's activities through the Basic method, whereas the In-Depth method had provided
more sustainable results.



Figure 1: NDTF Organizational Structure
Agreed to at Mid-term Review
NGO Advisory Council
BOARD OF TRUSTEES                                              200
1 - ---- --20  [                                      NGO COMMITTEE (6)
Committee
___ __   to the Board    _
I  1                   I                ~~~~~~~~~~Management
f;~~~~~~~~~_                                     _   _    [X  _ _ _ _ _ _                    t 00; 0:000   :t4f  00i  ; t:   5 ti-l T eam   I
MANAGING DIRECTOR 1*         I                              '  INTERNAL
fi; f   X; X ff  :  p   0   0   :   AUDIT
--    -----  ~__UNIT
DIRECTOR                            DIRECTOR                         DIRECTOR                       DIRECTOR
CR:EDIT:: u        VPANN                                            POVEiRTY      :FINANCE &
DEPARTMENT                           MONITORING                       ALLEVIATION                  ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT 2*                    DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT         ,
PLANNING       MONITORING       |    HRD         U         UNITFINANCE   |ADMINISTRATIO1
SECTION         SECTION          SECTION                                   SECTION           SECTION
M- |MICRO-ENTERPRISE|   |   COMMUNITY    |       r      SOCIAL                  NUTRITION
PROMOTION                PROJECTS               MOBILIZATION                 DIVISION
DIVISION   DIVISION                 ~~~DIVISION
PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS
POVERTY ALLEVIATION ACTIVITIES
GD - Gender and Development                                          1* = Institutional Development (ID) Consultancy (about 12 person-months)
TC - Training Coordination                                           2* = Planning & Monitoring (P&M) Adviser (12 person-months)



-100-
Figure 2: Project Funds and SoE Flow: IDA, GoS and NDTF+A47
Fd-d-~Bank ID-- 
l7: Disbursements (US$)
Central Bank (GoSL)
4: SoE                                  5: Disbursements (Rs)
asury (GoSL)                             6: Withdrawl Application (SoE)
1: Advance (Rs)
| Ministry of Fi nance (GoSL)        |
4: SoE                               l1: Advance (Rs)
3: SoE  il2: Rs.
NGOslPOs 
l2: Rs.
Beneficiaries
Credit fund flow between NDTF, NGO and Credit Beneficiaries.
|   !      ~NDTF             --    
a: Application for allocation    b: Approval &          e: Claims using Fl for   f: Cash reimbursement at 7%.
Agreement signed       amount disbursed to
_   2                   ~~~~~~~~~~beneficiaries.
NGOsIPOs
AFI                                (e): Maturity Period depends on 97% recovery rate.
d: Repayments                    c: Lending          Next loan will be amalgamated with the previous schedule.
Beneficiaries
Steps:
1: Treasury advances Rupees (Rs) funds to NDTF through Ministry of Finance based on allocation in national budget.
2: NDTF advances Rs. funds to NGOs/POs who,in turn, disburse partly for their own needs and prtly for the poor beneficiaries.
3: NGO/PO submit their details of expenses to NDTF.
4: NDTF submits SoEs based on NGO SoEs to Central Bank vis Treasury.
5: Central Bank debits the Special US$ account for value of SoE and reimburses the Treasury the advance given to NDTF.
6: Once Special Account is debited, NDTF submits an application to World Bank/IDA to replinish the Special Account.
7: World Bank/IDA replenishes special $ Account.                                          Source:NDTF Finance Division and Credit Dept. Sept'97



IS                                                                                                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 10I
SRI LANKA
O   TOWNS
o       PROVINCE CAPITALS
)       NATIONAL CAPITAL
/MAIN ROADS
KIliI i                                                                                          RAILROADS
RIVERS
MullIoinin                                         WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS
RESERVOIRS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ALTITUDE IN METERS:
2500
50  Mo,,no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    15~~~~~~~~000
5000
100
0  \  O  10    20     30      40      :0
\   \                      /                                        i   X                 Rondiyanuwora V~~~~~~~HmDoror
\XX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                   I       I       I
-7o-                                                                                                                                                                          t hz  p        o V     ,  ig s  0,i  E N ~ R o   0-   ' (   
COLO0AEO                                                                                                                                               0dooo   o,  GE? X X | | >d0   k.,,          0S
TH0::.-l E -      i Z 0            ...              .         .
M olara                                                                               004 lp    ,79,oo            lop  oo0,.,. -,o   S     N
00                                                                                  81                                            o,o\opOd,o4ood kiy
0s                  4-Embilipa                                           \~~~~~~~~~~~~.P
m   -62  e  <  * >  +  >  onyoi r ;nfo l lo/en s~~~~~R
_~~                              ~             ~           ~~~~~~             ~            ~            ~        ~        ~        ~      ~ ~~ aoBk-a1 Gudrees  ¢PbcolEoZoYbfMyrg



