Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9316-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
APRIL 3, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. J



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
US$1.00 = SL RS 40.30 (November 1990)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AGA        - Assistant Government Agent
ARTEP      - Asia Regional Team for Employment Promotion
CFS        - Consumer Finance Survey
EDP        - Entrepreneurship Development Program
EPPU       - Employment and Poverty Policy Unit
FSP        - Food Stamp Program
CBSL       - Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CRBs       - Cooperative Rural Banks
CF         - Credit Fund
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
GOSL       - Government of Sri Lanka
GRO        - Grassroots Organization
HRDF       - Human Resource Development Fund
IDA        - International Development Association
IFAD       - International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO        - International Labor Organization
IRDP       - Integratel Rural Development Program
JSP        - Janasaviya Program (People's Power Program)
KFW        - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederafbau
MIS        - Management Information System
MTRID      - Ministry of Textiles and Rural Industrial Development
MPCS       - Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies
MPPI       - Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation
MYAS       - Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports
NF         - Nutrition Fund
NGO        - Non-Governmenital Organization
NSB        - National Savings Bank
NYSCO      - National Youth Services Cooperati.ve
PNN        - Praja Naya Niyamaka ("Loan Agents")
PO         - Partner Organization
RDA        - Recommended Daily Allowance
RDS        - Rural Development Society
REDS       - Rural Enterprise Development Service
RRDB       - Regional Rural Development Banks
RWF        - Rural Works Fund
SAL        - Structural Adjustment Lending
SEEDS      - Sarvodaya Economic Enterprise Development Service
SK         - Sahaya Kandayama (JSP "Support Team")
TCCS       - Thrift and Credit Cooperative Society
Trust      - Janasaviya Trust Fund
UNDP       - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF     - United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      - United States Agency for International Development



SRI LANKA                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowers       The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiarys    The Janasaviya Trust Fund
Amounts         SDR 40.6 million (US$<7.5 million equivalent)
Termst          Standard with 40 years maturity
Onlending
Termst          The Goversment of Sri Lanka (GOSL) would onlend US$20 million
to the Janasaviya Trust Fund for its credit operations, at 32
interest per annum with a 25-year repayment period, including
five years' grace period for principal and interest. US$36.2
million would be passed on to the Janasaviya Trust Fund as a
grant for the implementation of non-credit activities
including human resource development, rural works and
nutrition interventions, and US$1.3 million to the Ministry of
Policy Planning and Implementation for creating policy
research and program formulation capacity on poverty and
employment issues.
Proiect
Description:    The project will assist the newly created Janasaviya Trust
Fund (the Trust), with a governing board having
representatives from the Government, Non-Government
Organization (NGOs), private sector and the academia, in
financing credit operations, human resource and infrastructure
development, and nutrition intervention activities of NGOs and
government agencies. The Trust will manage four funds: (a) a
Credit Fund to lend to partner organizations (POs) which will
on-lend to the poor in a manner prescribed by the Trust at
interest rates which will make the credit fund operations
self-supporting; (b) a Human Resources Development Fund for
promoting the productive use of credit and for developing the
lending capacity of POs; (c) a Rural Works Fund for building
economically viable infrastructure and creating wage
employment; and (d) a Nutrition Fund for reducing the
proportion of wasting and stunting in children and reducing
the incidence of low birth weight and the prevalence of
maternal malnutrition. In addition, the project will support
an Employment and Poverty Policy Unit in the MaiLstry of
Policy Planning and Implementation.
Benefits and
Risks:          Benefits under the proposed project are expected fromt
(a) enhancing the capacity of participating NGO8 and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Li -
government agencies to increase their human resource
development efforts and to provide access to credit for
productive activities to the poor, about half of whom would be
women; (b) creating some 10 million workdays of wage
employment for the poor; (c) improving the targeting and
containing the cost of welfare programs; (d) improving
nutrition among children and women; and (e) creating capacity
to analyze employment and poverty Impact of macro-economic and
sectoral policies.
Possible risks include political interforence in the working
of the Trust and poor decision-making and sub-loan supervision
by the participating organizations. To minimize these risks
the project will: (a) ensure that the Trust's professionalism
is maintained by using transparent eligibility criteria, high
calibre staff and Board members and an NGO advisory committee
to the Board; (b) assist participating organizations in
observing strict credit discipline by helping build their
credit mechanisms and capacity of ultimate borrowers to make
effective use of credit; and (c) deny project resources to P0O
which do not meet performance criteria.
Pro1ect Costs:
Local    Foreign      Total
Project Components                     ---  (ss million)------
Credit Activities                    35.0        -         35.0
Human Resource Development Fund      13.1       1.4        14.5
Rural Works Ftmd                     14.7       1.6        16.3
Nutrition Fund                       13.0       1.2        14.2
Employment Policy Planning Unit       0.2       1.2         1.4
Project Management                    3.6        -          3.6
Total Project Cost                   1                     85
Financing Plan:
Government                           17.5        -         17.5
Federal Republic of Germany          10.0        -         10.0
IDA                                  52.1       5.4        57.5
Total
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:
FY        92       93        94       95        96
-------------(USS million)------------
Annual                 6.4      9.4      12.1     13.9     15.7
Cumulative             6.4     15.8     27.9      41.8     57.5
Nlps             IBRD 20879



- iii -
SRI LANR
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ,
BASIC  DATA  .  .  ..  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  *  *  *  .  *  *   .  .  .  .  .  vi
I.    INTRODUCTION    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I
II.   THE SECTORAL CONTEXT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
B. Dimensions of Poverty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
III.  GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY AND EMPLOYMENT STRATEGY . . . . . . . .   5
A.  Social Welfare Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...    5
B. Integrated Rural Development Programs  . . . . . . . . .   7
C. Approaches to Self-Employment and Microenterprise
Development    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
D. Access to Credit .    . . ..  . .  . . . . . . .... .     11
IV.   IDA'S POVERTY ALLEVIATION STRATEGY IN SRI LANKA  . . . . . .    1S
A.     General    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  iS
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
C.  Project Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in
October/November 1990. The appraisal mission members included Messrs./Mme. Om
Nijhavan (Mission Leader), Ana M. Jeria (ASlPH), James Greene (ASTPH), Peter
Bowden, and V. Rahardjo (Consultants). Mr. Wijaya Wickrema (ASICA)
participated in the preappraisal mission and assisted with financial analysis.
This report has been endorsed by Messrs. David Groves (Acting Director,
ASlDR), and Martin Karcher (Chief, ASlPH)  Peer Reviewers of the Project are
Messrs. V. Raghavan (ASTIF) and T. Tsui who focused on the Credit Fund and
Project Implementation and Management, respectively.



- iv -
V.    THE  PROJECT     .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
A.  Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
B.  Project Beneficiaries and Relationship with
Janasaviya Program  . . . . . . . . . .. e . .   e . .    18
C.  Project Objectives and Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
D.  Project Description  ......... .........                  20
E.  Credit Fund Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
F.  The Human Resource Development Fund Component  . . . . .    24
G.  The Rural Works Fund Component .                          25
H. Nutritio.a Fund Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
I. Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
VI.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . ....        29
A. Cofinancing   .     .  .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
VII.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . .    31
A. Institutional Responsibilities . . . . * . . . * . . . .    31
B. The Janasaviya Trust Fund  . . * . . . . e X  . e  . . .    31
C. Partner Organizations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
D. Administrative Procedures  . ....    . ..   . .. ...       35
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ....     38
A.    Benefits   .  .  .  o  .   .  . .   .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   38
B.    Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .     . .    .  .  .  . .   .   39
C.  Programs of Special Emphasis  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .    40
TABLES IN TEXT
5.1 The Credit fund: Lending Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
5.2 The Credit Fund:  Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . .    24
5.3 The Human Resource Development Funds Grant Estimates  . . . .    25
5.4 The Rural Works Funds Grant Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
5.5 The Nutrition Fund: Grant Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
6.1 Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
6.2 Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
7.1 Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
7.2 Allocation of Disbursement of the IDA Credit . . . . . . . . .    37
ANNEXES
1. Operation of the Credit and Grant ?unds  . . . . . . . . . . .    44
2. Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Loans to
Beneficiaries from Partner Organizations . . . . . . . . . .    52



3.  Deposit and Lending Rates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    54
4.  tinancial Projections for the Credit Fund Operations . . . . .    55
5.  Technical Assistance to the Janasaviya Trust Fund  . . . . . .    69
6. Employment and Poverty Policy Unit: Cost Estimates  . . . . .    74
7. The Janasaviya Trust Funds Organization Structure
and Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    75
8.  The Janasaviya Trust Fund: Hedium-Term Implementation Plan  .    87
9. Financial Simulation of a Partner Organization . . . . . . . .    90
10.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    97
11.  The Janasaviya Trust Funds Honitoring and Evaluation  . . . .    98
12.  Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities   . . . . . . . . .   102
13. Assistance to Women  . . . .  ...    . . . . . . . .  . .   104
14.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . .   108
MAP: IBRD 20879



SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Basic Data
AREA               65,606 sq.km.                           POPULATION a/   16.6 million (mid-1988)
Rate of growth: 1.4(1988)
DENSITY
253 per sq.km. (1988)                                      HEALTH
763 per sq.km. of cultivable land (1977)                   Population per physician (1988)  7,168
Population per nurse (1984)     1,290
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1987)                          LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (1988)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000)         21.9                   Male (Years)                       68
Crude Death Rate (per '000)          5.9                   Female (Years)                     73
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births)    30.0 b/
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1981)
EDUCATION (1981)                                           % of population - urban            48
Adult literacy rate                86.1%                   % of population - rural            n.a.
Primary School enroUment           98.0%
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1980)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1985/86)                              % of population - urban            47
% of household Income highest 20%   43.0                   % of population - rural            40
% of household Income lowest 20%     4.8
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES BY SECTOR
LABOR FORCE PARTICIPArON RATE                                         1978/79   1981/82  1985/86   1986/87
Male   Female         Island         14.7     11.7      14.1      18.0
C ensus of Population (1981)        49.8      19.4         Urban         20.7      14.2     19.5      17.2
LFS Survey 1980/81                  53.1      21.2         Rural         14.6      12.0     13.2      15.9
LFS Survey 1985/86                  52.7      25.4         Estate         5.6      5.0       7.8       9.6
ACCESS TO BANK CREDIT BY SIZE OF FIRM
UNEMPLOYED POPULATION BY EDUCATION (1981/82)
Number             % of firms                             No Schooling lliterate            2.5
of             with access                             No Schooling Literate              0.2
Emvlovees            to credit                             Primary                          14.3
1-5                 6%                                  Secondary                        40.1
6-10                 50%                                (CE (OL)                          32.8
11/30                63%                                GCE (AL)                           8.9
31 or+                86%                                Undergraduates                     0.4
Graduates                         0.8
INCIDENCE OF POVERTY c/
Number of persons in poverty        5.16 miRion
Number of households in poverty     896,000 (289%)
% of households in poverty (rural)  32.8%
% of households in poverty (urban)  12.0%
% of households in poverty (estate)  13.5%
a/ Registrar enerad's Department.
b/ 1981.
c/ The poor are deflned as those unable to allocate a level of food expenditures that would ensuro a calorie
consumption level in the neighborhood of that recommended by WHO/PAO. To suit Sri Ianka conditions
conditions and based on the structure of its population, average calorles per capita are calculated at 2,200.



-vii-
Basic Data
PROFILES OF POOR HOUSEHOLDS d/
HOUSEHOLD SIZE                                             SEX OF MAIN INCOME EARNER
Male   FEmaol
% distribu-don of     % of total                    81.20%    18.80%
% of total     Poor households
(I to 4 members)       38%               24%
(5 to 8 members)       55%               66%
(9 to 104 members)      7%                10%              EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT OF MAN INCOME- EARNE
a a % within the
% of totat         povottv aroup
DEPENDENCY RATIO e/                                        No schooling          10.3                 14.8
The aveage dependency rato is 74% in Sri Lanka.            Primay                37.2                 49.1
The higher the incidence of poverty, the higher            Secondary            48.5                  35.5
the dWendency ratio.                                       Passed Grade 12       2.4                   0.4
Graduate               1.4                  0.1
d/ Based on CFS 1986/87.
e/ Ratio of children bdow 14 years to adul aged 15 to S9.



SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Sri Lanka is currently confronted by serious srcio-political and
economic problems with high rates of unemployment and politically unacceptable
poverty levels. Despite commendable achievements ln social indicators, e.g.,
high rates of life expectancy and literacy and low rates of infant mortality and
population growth, malnutrition:. particularly among children, is out of line with
other social indicators. Economic growth has slowed down in the past few years
against the backdrop of unprecedented civil strife, exacerbating the poverty
problem. The country faces a difficult task of generating productive employment
and income earning opportunities for a work force which will continue for some
timo to grow faster than the total population. Although the recently initiated
adjustment process is expected to accelerate growth to en average of 5.2Z p.a.
over the next three years, the poor are unlikely to benefit quickly enough from
the adjustment process.
1.2       The government's poverty alleviation policies and programs which
include food stamps, school mid-day meals, assistance to the d;sabled and moat
rerently the Janasaviya Program (JSP), are essentially consumption-or'6tn:d
welfare programs. They are financially and economically unsustainable and not
well targeted. Production-oriented programs, such as micro-enterprise
development and credit are fragmented and insignificant. Rural infrastructure is
in a state of disrepair and is inadequate.  Policy ard program responses
therefore need to be broadened and better targeted to enable the poor to
participate in the productive process by providing them access to resources for
self-employment, designing productive rural infrastructure programs, and
nutrition intervention.
1.3       After considerable dialogue with IDA, the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) has realized that tradltional welfare approaches to poverty are not
sustainable and that there is an urgent need to reorient and expand poverty
alleviation programs towards productive activities. GOSL has agreed with IDA
that the total expenditure on welfare programs would be contained within 3% of
GDP, and requested IDA's assistance in designing and financing a production-
oriented poverty alleviation project.
1.4       This project is aimed at increasing income earning opportunities among
the poor. It adopts a dual strategy -- a rural works program, designed to
increase the availability of wage employment on economically viable projects, and
a concurrent provision of credit and support services to those in the target
group willing to engage themselves in self-employment and micro-enterprise
development. Experience in other countries and evaluation of current activities
in Sri Lanka indicate that, when effective mobilization and support for the poor
is linked to credlt, self-employment and micro-enterprise development can make a
noticeable impact on rural poverty. In addition, the project includes selected
nutrition interventions to help reduce the incidence of low birth weight babies
and child malnutrition, and technical assistance for creating policy research and
program formulation capacity to take greater account of employment and poverty
issues in overall growth policies and public investment projects.



II. THE SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.1       Sri Lanka is predominantly rural; of its 17 million people, about 70:
live in rural areas -- 10.7 million living in some 30,000 villages and ond
million in the estate sector. Agricu.ture continues to be the dominant activity,
contributing 25% to GDP, 402 to export earnings and 52X to total employment. Of
the 3.4 million acres of cropped area, 2 million acres are under major export
crops of tea, rubber and coconut, and 1.4 miulion acres under paddy and other
minor crops. While the importance of the three major export crcps has declined,
that of the paddy sector has grown.
2.2       Structurally, there has been some transformation of the economy over
the past 20 years, shifting from traditional to non-traditional sources of income
in the key sectors. Most notable have been the large increase in paddy
production, emergence of tourism and garments and shrimp exports. Nevertheless,
the largest sector of the economy continues to be the service sector, reflecting
the continuing dominance of the public sector (which grew from 472 of GDP in 1970
to 561 in 1984) with agriculture declining in relative importance from 281 to
23Z. Over the same period unemployment has crept up to over one million, with
the growth of the labor-force outpacing that of employment opportunities.
2.3       Sri Lanka is unique in having achieved ar. impressive record in social
and human resource development despite a low per capita income. By the mid-
1970s, Sri Lanka had achieved a literacy rate of 851, second only to Japan in
Asia, and infant mortality and death rates lower than in many middle-income
countries. This was, however, not matched by similar performance in economic
growth. Conseque..tly, a change in development strategy since 1977, shifting
emphasis from welfare orientation (in 1977 consumer subsidies accounted for over
202 of the government's recurrent expenditure) to growth with *reduced
redistribution" produced an overall growth rate of 5-61 during 1977-87 which was
twice that experienced during the previous decade. While this strategy was
successful in increasing the growth rate and reducing unemployment somewhat, the
benefits of this initial growth were not distributed broadly enough, contributing
to ethnic, social and political strife. After 1986 growth started to decline to
reach 22 in 1989 partly due to the uncompleted liberalization of 1977, the
continuing dominant role of the public sector and civil conflict. This created
serious internal and external imbalances, and exacerbated the employment and
poverty problems.
B. Dimensions of Poverty
2.4       Estimates of the incidence of poverty using the 1986/87 Consumer
Finance Survey (CFS) data,3J based on food consumption related poverty line1t
l/   The survey excludes zone 3, i.e., the north-east districts of Jaffna,
Mannar, Vavuniya, Trincomalee and Batticaloa.



-3-
indicate that nearly 282 of the households (900,000 households or nearly 5.2
miliion persons) appear to be in t-3?erty. This incidence drops to 24S when the
food consumption poverty line is defined to allow calorie consumption between
802!' and 3002 of the norm. The percentage of the ultra-poor defined as those
consuming less than 80Z of the recommended level although they allocate more than
80% of their total expenditure for food consumption is 4Z.
2.5       The magnitude of poverty varies across regions depending upon resource
endowments, technological developirent, infrastructure facilities, market
linkages, asset ownership, tenancy arrangements and institutional framework for
resource support. Poverty is disproportionately concentrated in the rural areas.
Eighty eight percent of the poor households are rural; 32.82 of the rural
houaeholds, 13.52 in the estate sector and 122 in urban areas are in poverty.
2.6       Child Malnutrition.  There is considerable evidence of malnutrition
among children in Sri Lanka. A nutrition survey conducted by the Hinistry of
Policy Planning and Implementation (MPPI) during 1980-82 indicated that 36Z of
all pre-school children suffered from chronic malnutrition,!/ while 122 were
found to be suffering from acute malnutrition. The survey also showed that low
income households had relatively large proportions of malnourished children.
Preliminary results from a recent (1988-89) nutrition survey seem to indicate
that there has been an increase in acute malnutrition to 16.7S and a decrease in
chronic malnutrition to 322. These results however, are not strictly comparable
as the North and Eastern Provinces and some areas in the estate sector were not
included in the latter survey.
2.7       Women and Poverty.  Among the poor, women's income is crucia.,.  Dry
zone village studies suggest that the poorer the household, the greater the
relative contribution of women to family income and expenditure. Among the
landless and near landless households, the main source of income both for males
and females is wage labor supplemented by own account production involving home
gardening, some livestock rearing and household production of crafts. Women in
these households tend to work longer hours than men because of time spent on
2/ The poor are defined as those who are unable to allocate a level of food
expenditures that would ensure a calorie consumption level in the
neighborhood of  ..ie recommended energy intake for an active and healthy
life.  The daily calorie allowance recommended by WHO/FAO to suit Sri
Lanka conditions is 2,200 calories on a per capita basis. The poverty
line is the average consumption expenditure of those low-income
households which obtain calorie consumption levels that fall within the
adequacy range (defined as 80-1OOS of the recommended daily allowance
(RDA).
3/   Eighty percent of the recommended level approximately equals 1.5 times
the Basic Metabolic Rate and is considered the minimum critical energy
requirement for a moderately active person.
4/ Chronic malnutrition results from low nutritional quality foods and
affects children most during 3 months and 18 months of age.



domestic chores. They also tend to receive lower rates of remuneration, have
even more restricted credit options than men and have almost no contact with
extension and training systems. Data from micro-level case studies indicate that
female-headed households which accounted for 172 of all households, particularly
those with no adult child,en are amcng the poorest of the pior. Finally, women
tend to earn their livelihood in the weaker sectors of the economy, which have
been most adversely effected by liberalization. This is particularly true of
cottage industry activities like handloom production and coir processing.
2.8       Poverty and Unemployment Overlap.  An analysis of the 1986/87 CFS daza
shows that the unemployed are not necessarily poor and the employed are not
necessarily not poor. Nearly 902 of the poor are 'working poor". In 1986/87 252
of all unemployed lived in poor households; 852 of these lived in the poor
households in the rural sector, 112 in urban areas and 42 in the estate sector.
The unemployed in the poor households are generally less educated (primary
education or high school drop-outs). The poor generally engage themselves in
multiple activities of marginal productivity, and only earn meager incomes from
irregular work opportunities.
2.9       Causes of Poverty.  The poor tend to be *resource poor" with little or
no ownership of productive assets such as land and equipment. Seventy percent of
the country's 2.1 million rural households live in the wet zone which accounts
for only 30Z of the cultivable area. Operational land holdings are extremely
small; 382 of the tenants farm less than one-half acre and 712 less than one
acre. Nearly 112 of the households are absolutely landless. Settlement schemes
in the dry zone were intended to relieve this pressure but have proven
inadequate.
2.10      The poor remain largely excluded from the development process because
they lack control over productive resources and have limited access to credit,
extension systems and other sources of information and assistance. Their
survival strategies largely preclude them from organizing, raising capital and
taking risks. The formal village level organizations tend to be led by the
political elite of the village. Although formal leadership may on occasions
nominally rest with the poor and the landless, the actual functioning of the
rural organizations is controlled by the landed with close connections to
politicians and influential government personnel. It is this group which
controls decision-making and resource flows. Available rural resources are thus
generally diverted to the better-off members of the community.
2.11      The web of social, political and economic constraints such as insecure
tenancy arrangements, control over resources, indebtedness to the traders and
money lenders, lack of organization, and the entrenched power structure forces
the poor to engage in activities of marginal productivity and income, and
prevents them from using their energies and abilities to engage in micro-
enterprise development.



-5-
III. GOVERNMENT' S POVERTY AND EMPLOYMENT STRATEGY
3.1       GOSL policies have tradicionally reflected a strong concern for the
poor. Specific policy and program responses to poverty have essentially been
welfare programs. These includes (i) food stamp schemes, public assistance to
special categories (aged, disabled); (ii) social services (education, health,
housing); and most recently (iii) the mid-day meal program for school children
and the Janasaviya Program (JSP). For employment generation Government policies
are primarily directed towards tourism development and large scale infrastructure
development such as the Mahaweli development. In addition, the Government has
also promoted Integrated Rural Development Programs (IRDPs), micro-enterprise and
credit programs, which are not particularly targeted towards the poor.
A. Social Welfare Programs
3.2       Food Stamp Program (MSP).  In the 19609 a food (rice) subsidy was
provided to the entire population, which became a drain on the national budget as
the population grew and rice prices increased. As a result, in 1972 policy
changed by withdrawing the rice entitlement from taxpayers and dependents (some
10? of population) and in 1978 by instituting an income criterion which reduced
eligibility to 50X of the population. The scheme was further modified in 1979 by
switching to food stamps (denominated in monetary terms) and bringing some food
item prices more into line with world prices.
3.3       The late 1970s reforms attempted to reduce government intervention in
the economy and gave the mar.et a larger role in determining prices and
allocating resources. The change in the subsidy program was intended to protect
low-income households from the effects of the removal of price subsidies. Only
households whose declared income was less than a specified level were to receive
food stamps, which they could use to buy basic foods made available at authorized
shops at nonsubsidized prices. Although targeting attempts under the food stamp
scheme restricted the transfers to only half of all households, not all the
beneficiaries were in the lower half of the income range. Per capita calorie
consumption of the bottom 20? declined about 8X from an already low 1,490
calories during 1978/79 to 1,368 calories during 1981/82. It appears that these
households were not able to take advantage of the new income-earning
opportunities created by the economic reforms during this period and that the
food stamp scheme (hit by inflation) was not an effective safety net for
protecting the most vulnerable households.
3.4       Social Services Programs have also been an important source of
assistance, particularly in the areac of education, health and housing. However,
a smaller proportion of resources reached the poorest 40? of households - given
high drop-out rates from the education system and their limited access to housing
loan schemes.
3.5       Janasaviya Program (JSP).  The most recent Government initiative at
poverty alleviation is the JSP which attempts to apply objective criteria for
identification of the poor. The JSP was designed in 1989 as a crash program for
poverty alleviation. It aimed at covering all households enrolled in the food
stamp program, whose benefits had fallen in real terms over the years due to
inflation. Under JSP each poor household is to receive a monthly grant of Rs



-6-
2,500 for a period of 24 months. The grant is in two parts - Rs 1,458 for the
purchase of a specified basket of mainly foodstuffs, of which Rs 458 could be
spent or saved with the National Savings Bank (NSB) according to individual
household wishes. The balance of Rs 1,042 per month is to be deposited with NSB
until it had accumulated after two years to the sum of Rs 25,000, at which point
it should be made available as capital or as collateral for a loan to be invested
in an income generating activity.
3.6       The first Round of JSP started in September 1989 in 28 of the
country's 278 Assistant Government Agent (AGA) divisions. Originally in these
divisions there were 224,000 families entitled to food stamps, from whom 164,000
were selected as JSP beneficiaries after two rounds of screening. This screening
was conducted by the JSP support teams -- comprising four volunteers (Sahaya
Kandayama - SK -, also called "internal change agent,") selected by the village
and one publicly-paid village worker (the Grama Sevaka Nilandari, also called the
"external change agent").  This support team is meant to organize the Saragam
(community work), under which JSP recipient families are expected to provide 24
days of work per month, and mobilize JSP families to organize income-earning
activities.
3.7       Originally conceived as a nation-wide "crash" program, JSP was
unaffordable. Ai a result, it was phased out for implementation over 11
consecutive rounds. The second Round started in December 1990 in another 30
Divisions, and may include nearly 120,000 families drawn from families entitled
to food stamps with an income of less than Rs 700 per month. In addition to it
being unaffordable, JSP is a strong disincentive to work, providing -- as it does
-- a monthly consumption grant of Rs 1,458 in a rural economy which pays an
unskilled wage of some Rs 1,000 a month (when work is available). It also
creates inequality between JSP recipients and those originally above the income
cut-off-line, and between the early JSP beneficiaries and the later ones
(assuming no indexing for inflation).
3.8       The implementation of the JSP is aimed at achieving self-sustaining
development among the poor that is initiated and supported through their own
efforts. However, an evaluation of the first Round of the JSP after nine months
of operation of Round I reveals that despite huge expenditure and involvement of
the entire machinery of the Government, the implementation of the JSP strategy
still keeps 90% of the beneficiaries in poverty with very little chance of
getting out of it, and in addition more exploited than before. Based on this
experience the JSP is now being made production-oriented (see paras. 5.3-5.8).
3.9       The Mid-Day Meal Program was launched in the beginning of 1989 with a
budgetary allocation of Rs 2 billion (US$50 million) to provide one meal a day to
all children enrolled in primary and secondary schools in the country. In
addition to being costly the program cannot achieve the nutritional improvements
it aimed at since it fails to reach the population most nutritionally at risk,
i.e., pre-school children. The program was eventually reduced to Rs 1 billion in
1990.
3.10      Nutrition Intervention.  Current nutrition programs specifically
directed at mothers and children focus on supplementary feeding with thriposha,
combined with nutrition education, through the Ministry of Health and Women's
Affairs. Thriposha is a formulated food produced locally at an MHWA factory with



sufficient capacity to more than meet the supplementation needs of Sri Lanka's
vulnerable groups. However, Thriposha is distributed by Family Health Workers on
a take-home basis with scant control over diversion to ineligible beneficiaries.
Nutrition education through the health system is spotty and generally
ineffective.
3.11      Under IDA's Economic Restructuring Credit (Cr. 2128-CE), GOSL is to
review the entirety of its welfare programs with a view to improving targeting
and reducing the budgetary cost to no more than 3Z of the GDP. In addition, the
number of families in FSP is to be reduced to 1 million but with increased
benefits, and the JSP is to be reformulated to improve its targeting and to make
it more production-oriented. Beginning with Round II all JSP beneficiaries would
be enrolled in production-oriented work program which includes rural works, land
development, skills and entrepreneurship training for self-employment and micro-
enterprise development to enable them to receive Rs .,458 per month JSP
entitlement (see para. 5.3).
B. Integrated Rural Development Programs (IRDPs)
3.12      During the past 10 years, GOSL has committed about US$200 millio-. to
IRDPs covering 12 of the country's 25 districts as part of its strategy to
decentralize development as a means for responding more effectively to the needs
of the rural population and also reducing economic disparities among regions and
groups within those regions.
3.13      IRDPs (which have been supported by a number of donors) have been
effective in executing a number of small and geographically dispersed high
quality investments in both directly productive and infrastructure development
activities. The IRDPs have also promoted the formation of consultative and
coordinating groups of beneficiaries down to the village level. However, an
almost exclusive emphasis on agricultural production primarily through
intensification, excluded the participation of the landless poor. While
intensification of agricultural production could lead to increased labor
absorption, increasing mechanization financed by subsidized credit has undermined
this possibility. Both credit and extension services have focused on relatively
large landowners. On the other hand, infrastructure development was able to
provide employment of short duration to a very small proportion of the landless.
In many cases, contractors hire outside permanent labor for rural works to work
at different sites. Most of the benefits have thus accrued to relatively large
landowners, creating larger disparities. The traditional rural power structure
has continued to dominate and to influence the allocation of resources favoring
the better off.
3.14      Rural works are an important means to provide employment opportunities
and improve incomes of the poor. Mobilizing the poor into labor-intensive
activities for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
infrastructural assets also contributes to production and development goals. To
be durable solutions to seasonal unemployment or underemployment, these programs
need to lay the ground for structural changes in resource utilization, implying
substantial modification to administrative systems and procedures and integration
of the projects undertaken under rural works schemes with local level and state-
wide plans so that follow-up use and maintenance are ensured.



3.15      There is limited rural works implementation capacity outside of IRDPs
and the line agencies. This capacity needs strengthening at the AGA divisional
level, and additional capacity needs to be created within the NGOs and grassroot
organizations. Experience shows that people are more willing to participate in
implementation, operation and maintenance of infrastructure works, if they are
given the opportunity to influence the earlier stages of identification and
formulation. Local level organizations -- particularly NGOs and Grass Root
Organizations GROs) -- need support to become more effective using specially
trained change agents to organize people for this purpose. There are promising
models of community participation in and control of rural works contracts --
largely in the urban sector -- but changes in contracting procedures are
imperative.
C. Approaches to Self-Employment and Mlcroenterprise Development
3.16      Profile of the Sector.  In Sri Lanka micro-enterprises are defined as
small income generating units employing less than five people (including self
employed owrers). They include most household businesses and cottage industries.
Such enterprises have little contact with formal training, credit or technology
institutions. "Micro-enterprises" are largely non-farm enterprises. A large
number of people earn income working in self-employment activities often as a
supplement to agricultural wage labor. Estimates suggest that as much as 162 of
manufacturing sector value added and 301 of industrial sector employment are
created in the micro-enterprise sector.
3.17      A recent study1  of small enterprise programs found that 582 of the
enterprise owners were unemployed prior to the commencement of the enterprises
and another 312 were casual laborers. On average, each employed two persons per
enterprise. The capital invested per job created was Re 1,800 in crop-
agriculture (excluding the cost of land), Rs 3,200 for non-crop agriculture
(primarily poultry and animal husbandry), Rs 5,000 for manufacturing and for
service enterprises, and Rs 14,200 for trading. Fifty percent of enterprises
earned incomes per worker equal to or higher than the equivalent wage labor rste.
While some of the employment created is often low-paying, part-time and provides
only supplemental household income, many trading, manufacturing, and some service
projects have contributed siguificantly to family incomes.
3.18      Host of the production is sold in village and regional markets.
Seventy nine percent of the enterprises reported some backward linkages and 171
forward linkages. USAID (1988)1' estimates on the basis of empirical
investigations that a 1OZ increase in rural incomes would result in as much as a
211 increase in spending for locally produced goods and services. While
households continue to be the majo' buyers of the products made by micro-
enterprises, there has been a rel -e shift towards inter-industry and export
5/   ILO/Asian Regional Teams for Employment Promotion (ARTEP), "The Elusive
Target" (1989).
6/   USAID, "Small Enterprise Promotion:  Applyinr 'eneral Lessons to Sri
Lanka" (1988).



demand. Thus many rural industries may be capable of responding to the changing
pattern of demand associated with rising income levels. Subcontracting as a tool
of enterprise development, however, is still in its infancy.
3.19      Entrepreneurship Development.  In recent years, GOSL has given high
priority to the problem of youth unemployment. Policy has repeatedly emphasized
the need to create viable alternatives to wage employment through
entrepreneurship development programs (EDPs). These have become the main thrust
of the Government's micro-enterprise development strategy. Traditional
approaches to micro-enterprise development have stressed the "enterprise' and its
environments markets, raw materials, credit, technology, etc. In contrast, the
EDP approach begins with the entrepreneur and prepares him or her for the
challenge of going into self-employment or small business.
3.20      The best designed EDPs are based on practical training where trainees
select an idea which is developed into a business plan. After the training,
follow-up advisory services are provided by the implementing agency with some
support extended to enhance access to credit institutions. The moot significant
programs are those under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS) the
Ministry of Textiles and Rural Industrial Development (MTRID), and the Ministry
of Lands and Mahaweli Development. Recent ILO/UNDP a0sistance to the MYAS and
the MTRID to launch the Integrated Entrepreneurship Development Program is an
important step towards developing a systematic and coordinated approach to EDPs
in Sri Lanka. The objective is to build up the government's capacity both to
plan and implement integrated EDPs. Over the next three years an estimated 9,000
youth will receive four-day awareness training, out of whom 1,625 will be trained
in a 3-5 week EDP. Folow-up extension services will be provided to an estimated
800 who are projected to start their own business. Government capacity for
planning and implementing EDPs is however limited.
3.21      The MYAS program is implemented through its Small-Scale Enterprise
Division, the National Youth Services Council and its cooperative banking
affiliate, the National Youth Services Cooperative (NYSCO). The program aims to
provide entrepreneurship development and business start up assistance (including
access to bank credit) to unemployed, rural youth. Initially implemented through
Youth Clubs, the program is being re-structured through the creation of youth
enterprise clubs. Loans advanced to members to date total only US$750,000 by
NYSCO and US$1.1 million by the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon to some
12,200 youth. Recovery on loans which carry a concessional interest rate of 152
is 802.
3.22      In addition, a number of programs are being offered (of varying
quality) by different organizations. No less than 25 Ministries are involved in
some kind of skill development, vocational or self-employment training. Many of
these so-called self-employment schemes are little more than short 'awareness,
courses and stop short of preparing the trainee to start a business.
3.23      Vocational and Skill Training.  There are reported to be over 3,300
courses available in the public sector, supplemented by on-the-job training in
the private sector and a number of other programs run by NGOs. No less than 19
ministries are involved with the four major ministries (Higher Education; Youth
Affairs and Sports; Labor; Education) offering some 50,000 places. There is
limited coordination among these programs, no clear overall policy for vocational



- 9 -
demand. Thus many rural industries may be capable of responding to the changing
pattern of demand associated with rising income levels. Subcontracting as a tool
of enterprise development, however, is still in its infancy.
3.19      Entrepreneurship Development.  In recent years, GOSL has given high
priority to the problem of youth unemployment. Policy has repeatedly emphasized
the need to create viable alternatives to wage employment through
entrepreneurship development programs (EDPs). These have become the main thrust
of the Government's micro-enterprise development strategy. Traditional
approaches to micro-enterprise development have stressed the "enterprise" and its
environment: markets, raw materials, credit, technology, etc. In contrast, the
EDP approach begins with the entrepreneur and prepares him or her for the
challenge of going into self-employment or small business.
3.20      The best designed EDPs are based on practical training where trs.inees
select an idea which is developed into a business plan. After the training,
follow-up advisory services are provided by the implementing agency with some
support extended to enhance access to credit institutions. The most significant
programs are those under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS) the
Ministry of Textiles and Rural Industrial Development (MTRID), and the Ministry
of Lands and Mahaweli Development. Recent ILO/UNDP assistance to the MYAS and
the MTRID to launch the Integrated Entrepreneurship Development Program is an
important step towards developing a systematic and coordinated approach to EDPs
in Sri Lanka. The objective is to build up the government's capacity both to
plan and implement integrated EDPs. Over the next three years an estimated 9,000
youth will receive four-day awareness training, out of whom 1,625 will be trained
in a 3-5 week EDP. Folow-up extension services will be provided to an estimated
800 who are projected to start their own business. Government capacity for
planning and implementing ED?s is however limited.
3.21      The MYAS program is implemented through its Small-Scale Enterprise
Division, the National Youth Services Council and its cooperative banking
affiliate, the National Youth Services Cooperative (NYSCO). The program aims to
provide entrepreneurship development and business start up assistance (including
access to bank credit) to unemployed, rural youth. Initially implemented through
Youth Clubs, the program is being re-structured through the creation of youth
enterprise clubs. Loans advanced to members to date total only US$750,000 by
NYSCO and US$1.1 million by the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon to some
12,200 youth. Recovery on loans which carry a concessional interest rate of 15Z
is 80Z.
3.22      In addition, a number of programs are being offered (of varying
quality) by different organizations. No less than 25 Ministries are involved in
some kind of skill development, vocational or self-employment training. Many of
these so-called self-employment schemes are little more than short "awareness,
courses and stop short of preparing the trainee to start a business.
3.23      Vocational and Skill Training.  There are reported to be over 3,300
courses available in the public sector, supplemented by on-the-job training in
the private sector and a number of other programs run by NGOs. No less than 19
ministries are involved with the four major ministries (Higher Education; Youth
Affairs and Sports; Labor; Education) offering some 50,000 places. There is
limited coordination among these programs, no clear overall policy for vocational



- 11 -
D. Access to Credit
3.29      Sri Lanka has a long history of efforts to get the formal sector
banking institutions, especially the publicly owned banks involved in lending in
rural areas. Most of these efforts have been in response to Government pressure,
resulting in subsidized interest rates, and because of the perceived grant nature
of the loans by the recipient, to high rates of loan default and occasional
outright loan forgiveness. The predominant role of the banks has been collection
of rural savings for use elsewhere in the economy. As a result the volume of
lending has been small and the impact on the poor minimal. Meanwhile a very
large percentage of rural producers borrow from the informal credit markets often
at very high interest rates. It is clear that their financial needs are not well
served by the existing network of institutions and that Government intervention
to control interest rates, provide refinancing, guarantees and forgive debt, far
from being part of the solution, appears to be part of the problem.
3.30      Credit institutions in Sri Lanka can be classified into three broad
types: formal, quasi-formal, and informal.
Formal Institutions
3.31      Although commercial banks have a network of over 600 branches in Sri
Lanka, the )anks have been constrained in their outreach to small farmers and
producers by low profitability, crippling defaults and a corporate culture which
is geared to larger commerce, industry and -- in agriculture -- to public estates
and large plantation cultivation. Formal systems suffer from high admintatrative
costs, inflexible standards of credit analysis, and insistence on security. Much
of their rural credit has been developed in tandem with Central Bank of Sri Lanka
(CBSL) rediscount and credit guarantee schemes, which have been used to subsidize
interest rates to borrowers and depress lending margins.
3.32      Despite a proliferation of innovations and special schemes for the
poor or unemployed youth (People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon have over 30), the
volume of lending is small -- less than $5 million to date -- with recovery rates
generally below 80?. Currently formal lending institutions cannot cover
administrative costs and loan losses from the inadequate interest margins allowed
particularly under CBSL refinance.
3.33      The large state banks have a mandate to participate in the JSP but are
nervous about lending through it. They favor methods of intermediation through
NGOs to reduce credit delivery costs and by-pass the problem of training and
motivating field personnel. However, they have limited experience in dealing
with NGOs and have been unable to formulate specific plans. The smaller private
sector banks have only recently considered rural credit as a strategic objective.
3.34      Recently, links between the formal and the informal credit systems
have been institutionalized in the Praia Naya Niyamaka schemes of the state
banks, and the Sampath Seva Sanyojaka scheme of Sampath Bank, whereby nearly US$2
million has been extended by commercial bank branches to approved, private
individuals and merchants acting as loan agents for on-lending to the rural poor.
The scheme recognizes that a local agent has better knowledge of individual
borrowers and their circumstances than formal lenders. The weakness of the



- 12 -
agency system in Sri Lanka lies in the selection of the agents. A weak or poorly
motivated agent limits his risk by lending to family and close personal contacts.
3.35      Regional Rural Development Banks (RRDBs).  In 1985 the CBSL
established the RRDBs to bridge the gap between rural branch bank services and
informal credit sources. There are 12 RRDBs with 90 branches. Loan recovery is
less than 70? and defaults appear to reflect a widespread attitude that RRDBEs are
lending government funds and that these funds are only disguised grants. In
addition to defaults, RRDBs have high overhead and administrative costs. RRDBs
are constrained in cost-coverage by interest rate ceilings imposed by CBSL
refinancing. Interest rates which depend on loan-purpose are typically in the
range 12-182.
3.36      RRDBs lent US$4 millien in 1989.  With assistance from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), RRDBs have recently
commenced lending to producer groups relying on peer pressure as collateral. In
addition to taking banking to the village level, the RRDBes have also simplified
lending procedures and made them more flexible. Credit volume under this scheme
is small and performance has yet to be evaluated.
Quasi Formal Institutions
3.37      The most significant quasi-formal institutions are the Thrift and
Credit Cooperative Societies (TCCSs), the NGOs with their group-savings approach
and the Cooperative Rural Banks (CRBs).
3.38      Thrift and Credit Cooperative Societies (TCCSs).  The three-tier TCCS
movement is composed of village societies, district unions and a national
Federation and has close to 6,000-member societies with a total membership of
over 560,000 persons. TCCSs are singular in purpose and maintain no formalized
services outside of savings and credit. Total shares and savings have trebled in
the past 10 years to US$14 million and total loans and advances to US$10 million.
Studies have shown that TCCSs tend to be established in the larger, more
prosperous villages and appeal to the better-off members of the community and
that good management practices are not spread uniformly throughout the system.
Despite these weaknesses, TCCSs are seen as a promising instrument to channel the
flow of institutional credit to the rural sector.
3.39      Most TCCS members and almost all its borrowers are larger landowners
with the cash to buy shares in the societies (lending is based on multiples of an
individual's share value). Traditionally, the poorest households in a village
were excluded from membership. As a result the Federation recently launched a
pilot project funded by Swiss aid to develop small groups of the poor (defined as
JSP recipients) within existing societies and extend loans for self-employment.
To date, TCCSs have lent US$90,000 to 1,750 borrowers with a 93? on-time
recovery. Borrowers are motivated and organized by change agent village workers
employed by the District Union. Future plans incluie an ambitious expansion of
the scheme to 6,000 societies and development of a cadre of 1,400 credit officers
posted at AGA -- divisional level to supervise lending and recovery operations.
3.40      NGOs.  The largest NGO savings and credit operation is the Sarvodaya-
SEEDS started in 1986, which builds on the foundation of Sarvodaya's (an NGO)
community development. SEEDS works with over 500 village societies, organizes



- 13 -
savings and credit societies in villages and trains its members in financial
management. The savings are re-lent to society members and also used to leverage
loans from the SEEDS district level. A member is also required to have made a
previous deposit of 102 of the requested loan amount to the village society which
is refundable with interest at maturity of the loan. The village society
guarantees all loans to its members. Loans are extended at 20% p.a. -- with
SEEDS head office earning 52, the SEEDS district offices 102 and the societies
5Z. SEEDS has extended 11,600 loans worth US$500,000.
3.41      SEEDS projects the program to expand to 31,800 loans totaling US$7
million in 1994. SEEDS does not dictate conditions of eligibility for group
membership; group members are responsible for selection. Members must have been
saving for six months prior to receiving a loan, must have a feasible proposal,
and the proposal must be approved by the group. SEEDS, like some of the smaller
NGO programs, endeavors to provide some related marketing, training, and
technical assistance to borrowers.
3.42      Currently, loans default are a major problem.  As of December 1989,
on-time recovery was only 65%. As a result, SEEDS has launched a concerted loan
overdue recovery drive which is expected to recover most of the overdues, thereby
increasing recoveries to 90X. SEEDS' management information system was re-vamped
with technical assistance from the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee to give
loan disbursement and recovery data within 30 days of month-ending (in comparison
with six months previously).
3.43      Future plans include participation as a banking institution in an
IFAD-CIDA financed "Small Farmer and Landless Credit Projects, development of a
business extension service (the Rural Enterprise Development Service - REDS) and
expansion of management training for both statf and beneficiaries (to be
undertaken by the Sarvodaya Management Training Institute).
3.44      There are over 30 other NGOs and cooperatives with some experience in
income-generating activities or small enterprise development. The preferred
approach is group-based lending to small solidarity groups which also engage in
savings programs. The creditworthiness of individuals is backed by solidarity
and guaranteed by mutual savings. Although it is difficult to accurately cost
credit support activities as distinct from community development activities, this
approach appears to lower transactional costs for both the borrower and the
lender. NGOs also benefit from grant funding and the use of volunteers which
further reduce costs. The volume of lending is in the region of US$2 million a
year involving loans to some 30,000 borrowers. Loans are taken for a wide
variety of purposes decided upon by the borrower and include agricultural, non-
farm and trading activities. Loan recovery varies by program but several
promising programs can be identified where recovery is close to 100X5 in these
schemes borrowers save regularly and programs charge rates of interest at or in
excess of commercial bank rates.
3.45      Cooperative Rural Banks (CRBs).  Created by the People's Bank in 1964
as the banking arm of the Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies (MPCSs), the CRBs
are a major collector of rural savings. However, their lending operation is
constrained by: (i) staff unskilled in rural lending operationsS (ii) a
conservative approach which emphasizes asset-based lending, essentially through
pawn-broking; and (iii) insufficient margins over deposit rates of 12-13% p.a. to



- 14 -
cover administration costs and lending losses. With the assistance of CARE, the
CRBs have launched a pilot lending program to provide credit to up to 3,000
landless women organized into solidarity groups within 30 MPCSs. CARE has
underwritten the program with a partial loan guarantee fund and provision of
extension and training services to borrowers. Repayment on the initial 200 loans
-- which carry an interest rate of 162 -- has been close to 10OZ. Overall the
program has introduced the CRBs to the concept of group lending to the poor,
linked credit with technical assistance, and given women from poor households
experience of a rural banking institution. Future plans will depend on
performance as the program scales up and on the CRBIs willingness to on-lend
funds based on a net interest income of only 3-4Z in the absence of any increases
in lending rates.
Informal Sector
3.46      It has been estimated that the formal credit institutions supply less
than 102 of the credit requirements of smallholders and micro-enterprises.
Informal credit sources vary from professional money-lenders through landlords,
shopkeepers and traders, to friends and relatives. The informal credit system is
complex -- with a variety of interest rates and repayment terms. IFAD estimates
that 302 of loans are extended free of interest -- from relatives and traders and
shopkeepers. The latter then often (but not always) tie the borrowers into
purchasing inputs/selling outputs at trader-determined rather than market-set
rates. Interest rates where charged by moneylenders and traders/shopkeepers
typically range from 602 to 1502 p.a. Such high rates absorb all or most of any
production surplus. The chief positive feature of informal credit is ready
access by the borrower. Most lending is unsecured and the borrower is rarely
required to furnish documentation.
3.47      Women and Credit.  There are no hard data on the proportion of women
getting credit from formal sources or through NGOs (apart from special women-only
programs). However, poor women are fearful of approaching banks and other formal
credit societies. They often do not understand how to cope with the paperwork
and how to meet the various criteria for loans. Furthermore, land is almost
exclusively in the name of the husband, particularly in settlement areas. Women
are therefore unable to offer any security in order to obtain a loan. Poor
village women also do not have the contacts to provide banks with two or even one
guarantor having salaried employment.
3.48      One problem many women face is that a husband may have taken a loan on
which he defaulted. As a result, many women are not considered eligible because
they belong to the defaulting household. There is a need to differentiatu the
different members of a household and to pay particular attention to the special
needs of women, an area where most credit programs are currently very weak.
3.49      Many women have sideline businesses and are quite active in organizing
and forming credit groups in order to save for income generating activities. The
most comm n form is the "Cheettu" or Chit fund. Most of the funds so generated
are used for animal husbandry, petty trading and home gardening. The Vinivida
grassroot organizations coalition in Puttalam runs eight different credit
programs for women based on the cheettu concept ranging from a fund with a yearly
cycle using monthly savings to give short-term consumption loans, through funds
for latrines, to funds for income generating activities related to agriculture



- 15 -
and handicrafts. The payback rate has been over 952 with loans given to
individuals and to groups, and with the group taking collective responsibility
for loan repayment. Significantly, these schemes state the interest rates in
terms of monthly payments, not an annual rate of interest, which helps facilitate
comparison with informal sector loans.
3.50      Lessons learned from the review of small producer credit in Sri Lanka
indicate that the sustainability of programs designed to provide credit to the
poor is weak as the pricing of credit is insufficient to cover cost of funds,
administration and loan losses. However, group-based lending offers the
prospects of using solidarity groups and peer pressure as a substitute for
collateral. It also promises economies of scale in reaching credit-worthy groupe
through intermediaries, which would be able to control delivery costs through
community participation in borrower selection and project vetting. Given use of
peer group pressure and group-based lending, recovery rates can be improved and
interest rates charged to cover the costs of funding operations.
3.51      Experience also shows that credit programs are most effective where
borrowers save (which the poor appear to be able and willing to do), giving
borrowers a financial stake in the lending institution.
3.52      Capacity to organize the poor and facilitate access to resources is
currently limited and needs to be built up in programs and institutions within
and outside the government. Most promising are TCCSs, RRDBs, Sarvodaya-SEEDS,
NYSCO and selected NGOs. As conventional bank training programs (under the CBSL
and the Bank of Ceylon) are designed for traditional commercial banking, they do
not appear appropriate to build credit management for group-based savings and
lending programs; innovative approaches will have to be tried and developed.
Promising training methods and materials are being developed and refined (such as
under the Redd Barna savings and loans program) but considerable expansion of
this capacity needs urgent priority.
IV. IDA'S POVERTY ALLEVIATION STRATEGY IN SRI LANKA
A. General
4.1       Over the past several decades, the level of IDA's assistance to Sri
Lanka fluctuated largely depending on the rate of progress in the policy dialogue
with the country. While IDA has always maintained a fairly large presence in Sri
Lanka, its support was particularly significant during the major liberalization
episode of 1977-83, when IDA's assistance to Sri Lanka incr-ased sharply. IDA
projects at that time focused upon rehabilitation and expansion of the power ar.d
transport sectors, as well as the agricultural sector, particularly to increase
rice production, promote irrigated agricultural development (Hahaweli) and
rehabilitate the tree crop subsector. Poverty alleviation was not a specific
objective.
4.2       In the mid-1980s, when the country was facing ethnic problems, the
Government's inability to pursue a vigorous economic reform program constrained
IDA's country assistance in terms of lending support and in particular adjustment
lending. More recently, the Government has undertaken a substantial structural



- 16 -
reform program, which is being supported by IDA. Along with structural reforms,
the Government is keen to address development issues which have aggravated the
social and political tensions in the country. In particular it intends to reduce
high unemployment levels and at the same time ensure that there is an improvement
in the poverty situation. A combination of growth and general development
objectives translates into a development agenda with three interrelated core
policy objectives: (a) restoring macroeconomic stability; (b) reducing the size
of the public sector and improving its efficiency while concurrently increasing
the role of the private sector; and tc) reducing poverty.
4.3       In support of these broad objectives, IDA's current country assistance
strategy focuses on a stabilization strategy to reduce both internal and external
imbalances and to lay the basis for sustained economic geowth with due regard to
poverty issues. The proposed lending program for Sri Lanka will continue to
support the Government's macroeconomic reform program. In contrast to the past
emphasis on lending to the power and major irrigation sectors, the future lending
program would underpin the Government's priorities in agriculture, industry and
infrastructure, with the objective of stimulating higher rates of growth,
employment &ad incomes, as well as in the social sectors, including targeted
poverty alleviation.
4.4       IDA's strategy in poverty alleviation has two main aspects.  First, it
would help to lay the foundation for revival of a dynamic, more broad-based
growth which will generate increased employment opportunities and incomes.
However, by itself an increased rate of growth is not sufficient to ensure that
the lowest income groups share equitably in the benefits. This leads to the
second aspect of IDA's strategy which recognizes the socio-political dimension of
the poverty problem.
4.5       Sri Lanka has always had sizeable social programs and political
pressures over the past few years led to the creation of several poorly conceived
and costly new initiatives. These programs need to be cut back and retargeted
towards the truly needy. Through its policy dialogue, IDA has been able to
persuade the Government to impose fiscal limitations on total welfare
expenditures and to start the process of retargeting individual programs. For
instance, under the Economic Restructuring Credit (Cr. 2128-CE) the number of
food stamps recipients is to be cut back by half and the JSP is to be
restructured and made into an effective and sustainable anti-poverty initiative
by making it production-oriented. The proposed Poverty Alleviation Project
supports this latter objective.
4.6       It is also important to help the longer-term development of Sri
Lanka's social infrastructure. In this regard the lending program incorporates a
series of social sector projects. A future project in health care will support
the Government's efforts to refocus Sri Lanka's medium-term expenditure program
towards high priority health interventions, particularly in primary health care.
In education, the strategy is to improve the general education system by
upgrading schools and strengthening their supervision and management. At the
same time IDA would aesist in laying the basis for more fundamental reform of
curricula, examinations and post-school training to make secondary and higher
education more cost effective and appropriate to the economy's needs.



- 17 -
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.7       This project is an important component of IDA's four-pronged country
assistance strategy which includess (i) promotion of long-term efficient growth
through adjustment lending by addressing internal and external imbalances,
reditcing size of the public sector while improving its efficiency and increasing
the role of the private sector; (ii) support to agriculture, industry, energy and
infrastructure; (iii) rehabilitation and improvement of social services; and (iv)
targeted poverty alleviation initiatives to facilitate the poor's participation
in the productive process. Under the Economic Restructuring Credit, GOSL has
agre d to reduce the number of families in the food stamp program by better
targeting, and to make JSP more production-oriented, thereby containing total
welfare expenditures within 32 of the GDP. In connection with restructuring of
JSP, the Government requested IDA's assistance in designing and financing a
production-oriented poverty alleviation project. IDA'o continuing dialogue with
GOSL has led to a realization that welfsre expenditures must be contained and
streamlined. The project will further help demonstrate the feasibility and
sustainability of an alternative approach to poverty alleviation which is a high
priority in Sri Lanka's development plans. The proposed project is consistent
with IDA's areas of special emphasis and complementary to other IDA-supported
projects which do not reach the very poor directly. This project would also
support the Government's long-term growth policies by creating additional
productive employment.
C. Proiect Strategy
4.8       Opportunities for employment in the public and the organized private
sectors cannot be expected to solve the problem of poverty. On the other hand,
traditional welfarc approaches to poverty have not proven sustainable. There is.
therefore, an urgent need to reorient programs of poverty alleviation towards
more productive activities. Such a reorientation will require substantial
efforts to build the capacity of institutions which organize and serve the poor.
4.9       The project seeks to create short-term employment through
infrastructure development, long-term sustainable increases in income earning
opportunities through maintenance of infrastructure, self-employment and micro-
enterprise development, and improve nutritional status of poor children and
pregnant and lactating mothers. The most effective strategy appears to be a more
participatory approach based on group formatioi at the village level. This would
enable the poor to organize themselves to gain access to necessary resources to
undertake a range of income earning opportunities. Experience in Sri Lanka and
other parts of South Asia has shown that an organizational structure with high
level of staff commitment can effectively assist the poor. The poor and the
unemployed generally cannot articulate their needs and have little power to
command resources beyond their own labor, and the financial and service
institutions are generally reluctant to cater to their needs. There is thus a
potential role for intermediaries that can organize the poor and the unemployed
and facilitate their use of resources and services. The role of such
intermediation is now increasingly being recognized in Sri Lanka, and many NGOs,
some financial institutions, and government programs have started to organize the
poor for credit supported productive activities; but their capacity and scale of
operations is still very limited, and they lack resources to expand, and need



- 18 -
reorientation of their approaches. The project strategy emphasizes the
reorientation and expansion of existing institutional capacity to serve the poor.
4.10      As there is currently no capacity within Sri Lanka to analyze the
employment and poverty implications of macro-economic policy, sectoral programs
and specific projects, it is also necessary to develop capacity within the
government to undertake policy and operational research, and develop poverty and
employment monitoring indicators.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Formulation
5.1       The proposed project's design is derived from sector work conducted in
Sri Lanka by UNDP/IDA in collaboration with GOSL, and on IDA's policy discussions
with GOSL. The sector work analyzed the employment and poverty issues, socio-
economic relationships, approaches and institutions involved in self-employment,
micro-enterprise development, credit, rural works and social mobilization. These
reports recommend innovative approaches which would organize the poor, provide
them access to resources, including appropriate training, and thus facilitate
their integration into the productive process.
B. Project Beneficiaries and Relationship with the Janasaviya PLogram (JSP)
5.2       The ultimate beneficiaries of this project would be families who fall
below the poverty line,and malnourished children under the age of three, as well
as pregnant and lactating mothers. Although in 1986/87 only 28Z ox iri Lanka's
households (900,000) were poor (para 2.7), about one-half of all households
currently receive food stamps as supplemental income.  'he food stamp program is
now being rationalized to reduce the numbers from 1.9 m11.11-n to 1 million with
improved benefits. The food stamp recipients will be further screened when
joining the JSP in 11 Rounds. In Round I which started i.n ')ctober 1989 in 28 AGA
divisions and is to last till September 1991, some 164,006 of the 224,000 food
stamp recipient families were selected for JSP entitlement In Round II which
uses more rigorous criteria, benefic:.ary selection will be n three phases.  In
the first phase 20 poorest families were selected in each haiwlet of the 22 AGA
divisions following a community-based screening process in wtich all food stamp
recipients participated with assistance from a support team. This phase selected
53,000 families from among some 164,000 food stamp recipiens. Subsequently,
following the same procedure, another 10 families from each hiamlet were selected,
making a total of 80,000 JSP beneficiaries. In some hamlets where there is a
large concentration of the poor, more families may be identified in a third
phase. The expectation is that at any given time during Round II, the total
number of beneficiaries would not exceed 80-90,000. The third phase will be
undertaken only after the beneficiaries selected in the first two phases have
been organized and started participating in productive activities.
5.3       In contrast to Round I, Round II ia being made production-oriented;
all Round II beneficiaries are to be enrolled in a production-oriented work or
training program, which includes civil works, land development, ski-ls and
entrepreneurship training for self-employment and micro-enterprise development,



- 19 -
to be eligible to receive the Rs 1,458 per month JSP entitlement, consisting of
Rs 1,000 in JSP stamps to buy specified consumer goods and Rs 458 to be deposited
in an individuals savings account. For those beneficiaries who choose to work on
civil works, the JSP entitlement would be in lieu of wages that they would
otherwise earn. Others would enroll themselves in a training program and may be
given credit when ready to undertake self-employment activities. This nexus
between payment of Ru 1,458 and participation in a productive activity would be
achieved with assistance from the newly created Janasaviya Trust Fund-the Trust-
through the partner organizations (para. 5.11) in accordance with the conceptual
framework, methodology and discipline of this project.
5.4       In order to facilitate the production orientation of this program, a
team from the Department of Statistics will develop the socio-economic profile of
the JSP beneficiaries. In the process those found with incomes above the JSP
eligibility level (about Ru 700 per month) will be dropped from the program,
streamlining the selection process further. Based on the experience of Round II,
the beneficiary selection process for subsequent Rounds will be further refined.
5.5       GOSL would also put in place an exit mechanism, so thats
(a) those refusing to participate in a productive activity would be
dropped from the program immediately and become eligible for food
stamps only;
(b) beneficiaries would graduate from the program within the two-year JSP
entitlement period as soon as the family's income level reaches Rs
1,500 per month on a sustained basis.
5.6       GOSL would further require that, until it reaches a level of Rs 1,500
per month, the income generated from self-employment and micro-enterprise
development be placed in the beneficiary's savings account which would in the
first instance be used to repay the loan taken for engaging in the self-
employment activity, and the balance would be used for further investment.
Alternatively, the additional income generated from self-employment and micro-
enterprise development should enable the family to invest an equivalent amount
out of the JSP entitlement in a savings account, thus accumulating savings for
further investment.
5.7       During negotiations GOSL reconfirmed the above understandings reached
earlier and indicated that operational guidelines for making the Round II
production-oriented, including the exit mechanism and the provisions of para. 5.6
above, will be published by March 31, 1991 for use of operating staff and
beneficiaries.
5.8       With the significant involvement of the Trust in training and credit
for self-employment and micro-enterprise development it is expected that the
investment component of the JSP (Rs 25,000 at thet end of the two years) would
become redundant (para. 3.5).
5.9       Round II is considered a transition phase which establishes a clear
link between JSP entitlement, productive activities and the Trust. It is to be
closely monitored by MPPI and the Trust with a view to improving implementation
methodology. Implementation of Round II is assisted by four UNDP experts



- 20 -
attached to the Trust. As new food stamp beneficiaries join future JSP Rounds
III-XI, they will be dropped from the Food Stamp Program and submitted to the
production-orientation discipline of this project. In this way the proposed
project would complement the restructured Food Stamp/Janasaviya Programs,
facilitating the poors' participation in the productive process, and become the
poverty alleviation program of the Government.
C. Project Objectives and Scope
5.10      The major objectives of the project are to increase income earning
opportunities among the poor, and to improve the nutrition status of children
under three years of age and pregnant and lactating mothers. To achieve these
goals, the project has the following specific objectivess
Ca) reorient and expand the existing institutional capacity to serve the
poor, and to create additional capacity;
(b) develop credit and other services for promoting self-employment and
micro-enterprise development through group-based lending and
entrepreneurial development;
(c) expand productive wage employment for the poor through technically,
economically and socially viable rural works projects;
(d) develop programs for nutritional interventions for malnourished
children and pregnant and nursing mothers; and
'e) create policy research and program formulation capacity to take
greater account of issues of poverty and unemployment in overall
growth policies and public investment projects.
D. Proiect Description
5.11      The project will assist the Trust in financing credit operations,
human resource and infrastructure development, and nutrition intervention
activities of NGOs and government agencies (called Partner Organizations). The
Trust will manage four components of the project: Ca) a Credit Fund (CF) to lend
to partner organizations (POs), which will on-lend to the poor in a manner
prescribed by the Trust at interest rates which will make the credit fund
operations self-supporting; (b) a Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF) for
promoting the productive use of credit and for developing the lending capacity of
P0; (c) a Rural Works Fund (RWF) for building economically viable infrastructure
and creating wage employment; and (d) a Nutrition Fund (NF) for reducing wasting
and stunting in children and for reducing incidence of low birth weight and the
prevalence of maternal malnutrition. In addition, the project will finance
technical assistance for an Employment and Poverty Policy Unit in the MPPI.
E. Credit Fund Component
Credit Demand
5.12      Credit would be available to the partner organizations for on-lending
to the poor for productive purposes. The ultimate beneficiaries would need to



- 21 -
complete a preparatory phase of human resource development to achieve minimum
standards of creditworthiness. The size of the fund (US$30 million) is based on
an analysis of the potential demand, over a five-year period, made by the
prospective POs and on an assessment of their capacity to deliver such credit.
The proposed IDA project would provide US$20 million, and an additional DM 15
million (US$10 million equivalent) will be provided by the Federal Republic of
Germany through KFW as a grant. During negotiations agreement was reached that
GOSL would contribute US$5 million to the Trust's Credit Risk Fund -- US$3
million before the IDA Credit becomes effective and US$2 million before December
1, 1992. (para 9.1(a)). Credit Fund disbursement estimates by POs are summarized
below:
Table 5.1s The Credit Funds Lending Estimates
(Project Year and US$ Million)
1       2       3        4       5       Total
RRDBs                            0.8      1.2     1.7     2.4      2.5       8.7
NYSCO                            0.3      0.9     1.0     1.7      2.1       6.0
Sarvodaya-SEEDS                  0.3      0.6     0.9     1.1      1.0       3.9
TCCSs                            0.8      1.5     1.5     1.5      1.8       7.1
Commercial Banks                 0.7      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8       3.9
Other NGOs                       0.0      0.0     0.1     0.1      0.2       0.4
Credit Fund                 2.9     5.1      6.0     7.6      8.4      30.0
Credit Risk Fund            3.0     2.0       0.0     0.0    0.0        5.0
5.13      Onlending Terms to the Trust.  IDA allocations to the Credit Fund will
be passed on to the Trust under a subsidiary loan agreement at 32 repayable in 25
years with a five-year grace period for principal and interest on a fixed
amortization schedule, and GOSL will bear the foreign exchange risk (para.
9.1(b)). A draft of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement was agreed in substav.e during
negotiations; and the signing of this agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
GOSL and the Trust is a condition of effectiveness of Credit (para. 9.4(b)). The
amount retained in the Trust's Credit Fund arising from the faster maturity of
loans given by the CF to POs compared with the Trust's repayment obligations to
GOSL can be used only for lending to P0.
Credit Terms and Conditions
5.14      PO Participation Criteria.  Participation by P0  in the Project would
be carefully monitored by the Trust, and POs subjected to uniform eligibility
criteria accordingly. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Trust
that it would use the following eligibility criteria (para. 9.2(a)).
(a) POs should have at least two years' experience in lending to the
target population;



- 22 -
(b) the loan recovery rate of the PO during the two years proceeding loan
application should be at least 70Z of the amount (principal and
interest) falling due;
(c) P0 would have an adequate spread on existing and proposed operations
to cover operating costs and risks; and
(d)  POs must have or establish an accounting and financial reporting
system acceptable to the Trust, and agree to have the accounts audited
annually by an independent auditor.
5.15      In evaluating the eligibility of POs, the Trust would also take into
account such other non-financial criteria as managerial capacity, organization
and staffing to implement the project, and a demonstrated ability in eocial
mobilization at grassroots level.
5.16      Additionally it was agreed with GOSL and the Trust that eligibility
for continued access to credit would be dependent on the ongoing financial
performance of the PO including, inter alia, (i) an adequate coverage of
operating cost, (ii) net margin sufficient to meet debt servicing requirements
and to build up reserves against risk, (iii) subloan recovery of principal and
interest of not less than 902 from the subborrowers, and (iv) on-time repayment
to the Fund (para. 9.2(b)).
5.17      Onlending Terms to POs.  The Trust will onlend IDA funds to P0  at not
less than 71 p.a. This rate is designed to provide an adequate margin to P0,
given the agreed rate to be charged to the ultimate beneficiaries (para. 5.22),
and the high operating cost of extending credit to the poor in small amounts.
Although the onlending rate to the POs is below the average cost of non-demand
deposits to the commercial banks (presently about 12.52 p.a.), the special nature
of the project's credit operations justifies this rate. During negotiations
agreement was reached that IDA and GOSL would review the onlending rates with the
Trust semi-annually in the light of the P0 operating and risk costs and make
appropriate adjustment. The maturities of loans to POs would be based on the
composite maturities of subloans from POs to the ultimate beneficiaries but would
not exceed three years with six months grace period although the majority of
subloans during the initial period are not expected to exceed 12 months (para.
9.2(c)).
5.18      Lending Terms to Ultimate Beneficiaries.  The onlending terms and
conditions to the ultimate beneficiaries would be determined by individual POs
using prudent lending policies and practices (Annex 2). However, POs must enroll
all sub-borrowers in a savings program at the time they receive credit and
through the period for which they are indebted. The Trust will review these
policies and practices periodically as to their adequacy to maintain the
financial integrity of the PO. If they are found to be lacking, the Trust would
seek their revision to comply with the Trust's eligibility criteria or
discontinue lending to the PO concerned.
5.19      Subloans by PO to ultimate beneficiaries would finance both investment
and working capital expenditure. During negotiations agreement was reached with
GOSL/Trust that POs would limit subloans to a maximum of Rs 40,000 (US$1,000
equivalent). Total loans of a PO to a subborrower would not exceed the subloan



- 23 -
limit of Rs 40,000 (US$1,000 equivalent) at any given time. Rescheduling would
be considered only once for a maximum period of two years in extreme
circumstances such as natural disasters or loss of income earning assets.
Subloan maturity would be determined by (i) the projected cash flow from the
productive activities financed, (ii) the availability of cash surplus to pay
interest and principal, and (iii) the subborrowers subsistence needs, but with an
overall ceiling of three years (para. 9.2(d)).
5.20      For the Trust to monitor the performance of the project financed
subloans and ensure that they are directed to the target population, POs would be
required to maintain separate project ac^1unts, and prepare an annual income
statement, source and utilization of funds statement and a balance sheet for
project financed activities. These statements would be certified by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Trust (para. 9.2(e)).
5.21      Most of the prospective POs are currently onlending at rates varying
from 122 to 18Z. Most agricultural credit is subject to the CBSL refinancing
schemes and is onlent at 12Z to the ultimate subborrowers. This involves a
considerable subsidy, given the high cost and risk of rural credit and commercial
banks' weighted average lending rate of about 18.52. Subsidized credit
undermines the viability of rural credit, and mostly reaches the better-off
members of the society. Lending rates prevalent in Sri Lanka are given in
Annex 3.
5.22      POs would fix onlending rates to the ultimate beneficiaries at levels
which would be sufficient to cover their operating costs and possible loan
lcsses. Given the high operating costs and risks associated with this type of
lending, the POs would be expected to have a minimum spread of at least 122 per
annum. The Trust would ensure that the initial onlending rate on subloans are
sufficient to recover cost of funds, operating costs, risk costs and provide a
margin to build up a prudent cash reserve against future loan losses. During
negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL/Trust that POs onlending rate would
not be less than the average weighted interest rate (for all lending operations)
charged by the Commercial Banks, Development Finance Company of Ceylon, National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka, Regional Rural Development Banks, Credit Societies
and Cooperatives, as published semi-annually by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
The Trust would review rates determined by the POs semi-annually, and agree on a
rate to be used for subloans for the ensuing six months (para. 9.2(f)). However,
the Trust should allow flexibility to POs to rebate those subborrowers who pay
their subloans on time provided the full cost recovery criteria described above
is met.
Credit Fund Sustainability
5.23      The credit operations of the CF would be structured to achieve at
minimum a break-even position after allowing for cost of funds, operating costs
and risk. In order to test the viability of the Credit Fund and its
sustainability, financial projections, covering the five-year disbursement
period, have been prepared. The key assumptions are that the Trust will receive
loan funds at an interest rate of 32, and onlend them at 72, yielding a spread of
42. GOSL will contribute US$5 million to a Credit Risk Fund which would be
invested in Government Securities at a yield of no less than 102, the loan
recovery ratio after rescheduling would average around 95Z of disbursements, and



- 24 -
25Z of loan amounts falling due would be rescheduled. In addition, the model
assumes that 52 of the recoveries would be accumulated in a cash fund to permit
the Trust to meet its liquidity requirements. For the sake of simplicity the
model assumes that all loans are outstanding for a full year.
5.24      These assumptions and the result they produce for the Trust are
detailed on Annex 4 and summarized belows
Table 5.2: The Credit Funds Financial Projections
(Project year and US$ Million)
Year     1      2       3      4      5
Credit Fund Loans                             2.9    5.1    6.0    7.6    8.4
Total Loans                                   2.9    7.2   11.4   16.7   22.0
Rescheduled Loans Outstanding                 0.7    2.2    3.7    5.6    7.6
Bad Debts Written-Off                         0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.9
Net Income/(loss) from Credit
Fund Operations                             0.2    0.3    0.2    0.1   (0.1)
Net Income/(Loss)                             0.4    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.5
Credit Risk Fund                              3.0    5.3    5.8    6.4    7.1
Liquidity/Security Fund                       0.1    0.4    0.9    1.6    2.5
Total Assets                                  6.4   14.3   21.4   30.3   40.0
Net Worth                                     3.4    6.1    6.8    7.5    8.1
5.25      The above data show that provided the loan default rate is less than
5Z and the Credit Risk Fund and the Liquidity/Security Fund continue to earn an
income of no less than 102, the Credit Fund will continue to be financially
viable and could sustain its operations after the credit period. A sensitivity
analysis shows that at a default rate of 1OX, an investment income of at least
152 of the above funds would be required to maintain a break-even position.
F. The Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF) Component
5.26      The HRDF will provide the initial costs of human resource and related
institutional development. The first includes the process of group formation and
awareness building at the beneficiary level, and beneficiary training in
technical, micro-enterprise development and leadership skills. As the
beneficiaries would be JSP recipients, they would not be paid any stipend during
the training period. Institutional development includes the strengthening of the
conceptual and management skills of partner organizations which operate credit,
rural works and nutrition programs for the target population. These costs are
treated as social costs and would be eligible for grant support during the
initial period of program operation. As the credit programs develop and expand,
the recurrent costs of the credit program would be met from net interest income
on lending.
5.27      Estimates of HRDF contained in Table 5.3 are divided into two main
components. A basic fund (to support social mobilization, training and selected
administrative costs); and capital cost support. The size of the basic fund is
estimated by analyzing training costs estimated by the prospective P0 and on the



- 25 -
assessment of their capacity to undertake effective training. Support for the
incremental capital expenditure (such as motorcycles and computer equipment) is
estimated at 25Z of the basic fund.
Table 5.3: The Human Resource Development Funds Grant Estimates
(Project Year and USS Million)
Year   1    2    3    4    5          Total
Basic Fund                               2.3  2.6  2.6  2.1  2.0         11.6
Capital Cost Support                     0.6  0.6  0.7  0.5  0.5          2.9
HRDF                                     2.9  3.2  3.3  2.6  2.5         14.5
5.28      The HRDF will finance programs of awareness creation and organization
of the poor, skills and entrepreneurship development, and assistance in the
identification of productive activities, and rural works projects. The training
to the partner organizations staff would involve group formation, credit
management, MIS, accounting and auditing.
5.29      Eligibility Criteria.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with
GOSL/Trust that POs receiving HRDF grant support would have at least one year
experience in organizing the poor. Additionally, POs would agree to a medium-
term development plan linking human resource development with the use of credit
and other Trust activities. Continued access to the HRDF would be compliance
with previously agreed activities (para. 9.2(g)).
G. The Rural Works Fund Component
5.30      Objective.  The main objective of the Rural Works Fund is to provide
wage employment opportunities to the poor and to create productive assets,
including rehabilitation and maintenance of rural infrastructure. The proposed
program is expected to maximize the long-term sustainable income generation
capacity of the poor through selection of projects that generate long-term
income, and/or on-the-job training in construction skills.
5.31      The rural works program would operate mainly in the South and Central
parts of the country outside the major metropolitan and estate areas. In the wet
zone, the watershed protection and soil conservation/social forestry component is
especially relevant in order to protect fragmented and fragile land resources and
to reduce the negative downstream effects from upland erosion. As the dense road
network in this zone is affected by heavy rainfall and lack of regular
maintenance, road rehabilitation not already covered by ongoing rehabilitation
projects would be given high priority. Irrigation maintenance and rehabilitation
is especially relevant to the dry zone area with its seasonal rainfall pattern.
Because of the scarcity of fuelwood and timber in these areas, and also because
of the need to protect the tank catchments, community forestry would be an
important project activity. Village sanitation, water supply small town
infrastructure and fishpond construction would cut across all zones.



- 26 -
5.32      The Rural Works Fund will finance projects that will be generated and
submitted by potential POs. It would be implemented to a large extent through
government agencies particularly at the AGA division level. The AGA's will be
encouraged to work closely with community groups in identifying eligible
projects. Interested NGOs would also be encouraged to develop programs and as
appropriate they will be assisted through HRDF in developing planning and
implementation capacities. The Trust will establish a mechanism to aggregate
small proposals that the Trust will not be able to appraise and handle
individually, through intermediary organizations.
5.33      Eligibility Criteria.  While the Trust would establish sector-specific
criteria, the following general eligibility criteria for RWF projects were agreed
during negotiations (para. 9.2(g)):
(a) projects should generate substantial employment and use local labor to
the extent possible. The labor component should be in excess of 50Z
of the total contract cost (compared to 30Z in current works); wage
rates would be consistent with those prevailing in the project area,
and JSP entitlement in JSP areas would be paid in lieu of wages that
they would otherwise earn;
(b) projects should generate long-term socialleconomic benefits accruing
directly to the poor;
(c) projects should build sustainable income earning capacity of the poor;
(d) upgraded infrastructure should be maintained on a regular basis either
by the responsible agencies or by the users themselves. Beneficiary
participation in resource management and community contracting should
be favored; and
(e) projects must meet technical requirements in each sub-sector.
5.34      Estimates of Rural Works Fund activities are summarized below:
Table 5.4: The Rural Works Fund: Grant Estimates
(Project Year and US$ Million)
1        2        3         4        5       Total
Irrigation                  0.4      0.6       0.9      0.9       0.9      3.7
Roads                       0.4      0.6       1.2      1.6       1.8      5.6
Forestry & Watershed
Management                0.1      0.2       0.4      0.6       0.6      1.9
Water Supply & Sanitation  0.2       0.3       0.4      0.3       0.4      1.6
Fisheries                   0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.5
Small Town Infrastructure  0.2       0.3       0.5      0.5       0.5      2.0
Feasibility Studies         0.2      0.2       0.3      0.3        -       1.0
Rural Works Fund       1.6      2.3       3.8      4.3      4.3      16.3



- 27 -
H. Nutrition Fund Component
5.35      Obiective.  The Nutrition Fund will support the innovative
intervention approach being tested in Galewala AGA Division, and extend it to 180
AGA Divisions through Sri Lanka's 300-odd NGOs. The Trust would set up a four-
person Nutrition Division to organize the component, screen NGO applications,
develop NGO worker and supervisor training programs and monitor and evaluate the
results.
5.36      The objectives of the component would be, after five years of
operation in an AGA division, to:
(a) reduce moderate and severe malnutrition in children under three years
of age, thereby eliminating severe clinical malnutrition as a public
health problem, and reducing (i) by 75Z the frequency of wasting in
children aged 12-23 months, and (ii) by 30? the prevalence of stunting
in children aged 24-36 months; and
(b) reduce by 252 the incidence of low birth weight and the prevalence of
maternal malnutrition and iron deficiency anemia.
5.37      The Fund would finance training for NGO personnel atd the costs of
monitoring, evaluation and special studies. It also would finance grants to NGOs
for: scales, utensils and equipment for volunteers; and other program operating
costs.   Honoraria and salaries, respectively, for volunteers and supervisors (if
they are JSP recipients) would be adjusted from their individual JSP entitlement.
5.38      Because the availability of adequate quantities of thriposha is
central to the program's success, agreement was reached at negotiations that the
Government would maintain thriposha production levels of 870 metric tons monthly
during project implementation and would allocate to the Trust as much of that
offtake as the nutrition component would require. To promote appropriate
linkages between NGO nutrition and Goveranment health personnel, agreement was
reached with GOSL at negotiations that, in each division where the component
operates, the AGA would chair quarterly meetings of a division nutrition-health
coordinating committee to be set up under terms of reference and with
representation satisfactory to IDA (para. 9.1(c)).
5.39      Phasing of coverage and grants to NGOs from the nutrition fund are
estimated in Table below:
Table 5.5: The Nutrition Fund: Grant Estimates
(Project Year and US$ millions)
Year       1      2       3      4      5      Total
No. of AGA Divisions                  15      40     70     120    180    180
Equipment Cost                       0.2    0.4    0.6      0.9    1.3    3.4
Training                             0.3    0.5    0.6      1.0    1.3    3.7
Operating Cost,
including consumables              0.2    0.6    1.0      1.9    3.4    7.1
0.7    1.5    2.2      3.8    6.0    14.2



- 28 -
I. Technical Assistance Component
5.40      The Janasaviya Trust Fund.  The establishment of the Janasaviya Trust
and its effective operation require considerable technical assistance (TA).
Assistance for start-up consisting of developing operating level policies and
establishing systems and procedures has been provided under a UNDP facility
(Annex 5). Further assistance to the Trust will be required at two levels: (i)
for the Trust's management systems, and (ii) for the Trust's partner
organizations.
5.41      The Trust would need assistance in establishing data processing
systems necessary for modern enterprises: these include financial modeling
expertise, funds forecasting, credit approval, monitorLng procedures and
management information systems. The design and early implementation of a
computerized management information system would be of considerable benefit to
the Trust.
5.42      The Trust would also need general assistance during the project period
depending on the iscues that arise and the steps that need to be taken to
strengthen operating pergormance.
5.43      Technical assistance by the Trust to the partner organizations in the
first instance would focus on social mobilization, credit management, accounting
procedures and monitoring performance. Many NGOs and government agencies are
particularly weak in those areas. Some of the larger organizations will need
help in establishing computerized accounting and control.
5.44      In addition, the Trust would assist P0  in identifying productive
income generation opportunities, linking of small rural producers with wider
local and international markets, and in other ways as identified by the Trust's
evaluation of experience of its partner organizations.
5.45      UNDP would provide this assistance in continuation of its previous
involvement with the Trust. Signing of UNDP project document, providing
technical assistance to the Trust is a condition of effectiveness of IDA credit
(para. 9.4(c)).
5.46      Employment and Poverty Policy Unit.  There is currently little
capacity within Sri Lanka to analyze the employment and poverty implications of
macro-economic policy, sectoral programs or specific projects. Nor are the
employment and monitoring indicators readily available in a timely fashion. The
project would establish an "Employment and Poverty Policy Unit' (EPPU) within
MPPI to develop monitoring indicators and to undertake policy and operational
research and analysis itself in addition to commissioning special studies by
outside agencies. This unit would act as a focal point for policy planning,
coordination and evaluation of employment activities. The main objectives of the
unit would be to:
(a) develop methodologies for analyzing and monitoring, on a continuing
basis, the employment and poverty effect of programs in different
sectors of the economy;



- 29 -
(b)  evaluate the effectiveness of programs and projects aimed at  income
generation for the poor;
(c) develop operational guidelines for employment and poverty strategies
and programs at macro and sectoral levels; and
(d) recommend changes necessary to make existing or proposed policies more
effective in employment generation and poverty alleviation.
5.47      The unit would span two existing divisions -- the Janasaviya and
Nutrition Division and the Human Resources and Employment Division in the MPPI
and would be coordinated by the Secretary, planning. The unit would be assisted
by two advisors skilled in analyzing employment and poverty issues.
5.48      The unit will also develop capacity for small enterprise policy
planning. The first phase would involve the development of a data base for
future work on small enterprises. The second phase would involve the analysis of
national policies and their impact on small enterprises.
5.49      In addition to the need to research specific aspects of both
employment and poverty policy and program performance there is an urgent need to
strengthen the capacity to undertake important household budget surveys -- in
order to identify the characteristics of households (particularly the poor) --
and to monitor trends over time. Currently, survey capacity is divided between
two institutions -- the CBSL and the Department of Census and Statistics. Both
institutions are under-resourced with the result that timely publication of
survey results is delayed. The project will provide financial and technical
support to the Department of Census and Statistics to upgrade its household
survey capacity.
5.50      The location of the unit in MPPI will ensure that its recommendations
receive appropriate attention. The technical assistance staff will work directly
on analytical and research studies with counterpart staff in MPPI. The unit will
have also the capacity to hire short-term consultants to undertake specific
studies. The cost of the unit at US$1.4 is detailed in Annex 6. Agreement was
reached with GOSL during negotiations that the EPPU will develop a three-year
action plan which will be updated annually (by October 31 of each year) and
approved by IDA (para. 9.1(d)). It is expected that this will be provided to IDA
during the second quarter of GOSLs fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
6.1       Total project cost is estimated at US$85.0 million equivalent of which
the proposed IDA credit for SDR 40.6 million (US$57.5 million) would contribute
68X. Project costs are specified in Table 6.1, and the financing plan is given
in Table 6.2. Of the remaining project costs, the Federal Republic of Germany
through KFW would contribute DM 15 million (US$10 million equivalent), and
US$17.5 million would be contributed by GOSL. The proportion of project costs
contributed by partner organizations and the ultimate beneficiaries are difficult
to estimate and are not quantified here because different GOSL agencies and NGOs
have different cost structures and the lending agencies would have different



- 30 -
requirements. For the Credit Fund operations, some partner organizations would
probably provide 1002 loan financing with the condition that sub-borrowers save
regularly. but these savings would not necessarily be available to fund project
activities. Others would be more conservative, such as matching with credit on a
one-for-one basis sub-borrower's cash contribution to project activities. The
wage costs of the RWF, stipend during training and honoraria and salaries,
respectively, of volunteers and supervisors (if they are JSP recipients) for the
NF are also not quantified as these would be adjusted from the individual's JSP
entitlement. The monthly Rs 1,458 JSP entitlement will continue to be paid out
of the Government budget.
6.2        During negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL that IDA's
contribution of US$20 million would be onlent to the Trust, while US$36.2 million
is passed on as grant to the Trust for implementation of the HRDP, RWF and NF
activities.
Table 6.1: Proect Caot Sumary /a
(In Mfllos)
Rupee                     USS               %       % of
Components             Locd   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Foreign    TAsI
A. Credit Fund                 1,410.5    -   1,410.5     35.0      -    35.0      0.0%    41.2%
B. Hu-mn Resource Development Fund    528.4   56.4   584.8  13.1    1.4   14.5     9.6%    17.1%
C. Rural Works Fund             589.3   64.5   653.8      14.7      1.6   16.3     9.8%    19.2%
D. Nutrition Fund               523.3   48.4   571.7      13.0      1.2   14.2     8.5%    16.7%
E. Employment& Poverty Policy Unit  10.1   48.4   58.5     0.2      1.2   IA       85.7%     1.6%
F. Projdct Management           145.9     -    145.9       3.6      -      3.6     0.0%     4.2%
Total Project Cost  3,207.5   217.7  3,425.2   79.6      5.4   85.0      6.3%    100.0%
a/ Calculated at a buying rate of Rs.40.3tUSS as of November 1990.
Table 6.2: Proect Financins Plan
(In MMilo)
FEDERAL REPUBLIC
UOSL           IDA          OF GERMANY            TOTAL
Components               Rs.    USS     Rs.       USS    Rs.      USS       Rs.     US$
A. Credit Fund                  200.7    5.0   806.0      20.0   403.0   10.0   1,409.7    3S.0
B. Human Resource Development Fund    100.8    2.5   483.6  12.0    -      -      584.4     14.5
C. Rural Works Fund              64.5    1.6  592.4       14.7      -      -       656.9    16.3
D. Nutrtion Fund                189.9    4.7   382.9       9.5      -      -      572.8     14.2
E. Employment & Poverty Policy Unit  4.0    0.1   52A      1.3      -      -       56.4      1.4
F. Projet Management            145.1    3.6      -         -       -      -       145.1     3.6
Total       705.0   17.5  2,317.3     57.5   403.0   10.0   3,425.2    8S.0



- 31 -
A. Cofinancing
6.3       The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has proposed a grant of DM 15
million (US$10 million equivalent) for financing the credit component of the
project on a parallel basis after reviewing IDA's Staff Appraisal Report. FRG
has indicated full support for the conditionality of the IDA project and indeed
in the broader areas of re-orientation of the JSP. The FRG grant funds for the
credit component would be administered and disbursed thiough KFW on a parallel
basis to finance subloans of POs which would be identified separately from those
to be financed by the IDA credit. IDA, the Trust and KFW would identify the
eligible POs for FRG grant proceeds annually based on credit demand projections
of POs/eligible beneficiaries.
6.4       Although not an integrated part of this project, UNDP will provide
US$2.5 million for technical assistance to the Trust during project
implementation.
VII. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibilities
7.1       Administration of the proposed Funds, i.e., the Credit Fund, the Human
Resource Development Fund, the Rural Works Fund and the Nutrition Fund would be
the responsibility of the Trust, which was established as an apex agency as a
result of collaboration with GOSL and IDA and with technical assistance from
UNDP. It would receive and disburse designated project funds to partner
organizations according to criteria agreed with IDA.
7.2       The establishment of the Employment and Poverty Policy Unit will be
the responsibility of the MPPI.
B. The Janasaviya Trust Fund
7.3       Organizational and Management System.  The Trust was chartered in
January 1991. Its charter specifies its nor-profit character and its authority
to enter into relationships with foreign sources of funding that have received
GOSL approval. Its objectives are employment generation and pove..ty alleviation
and include providing credit and otherwise assisting government programs,
financial institutions, NGOs, and other groups working to alleviate poverty,
which are called partner organizations. Agreement was reached with GOSL/Trust at
negotiations that any amendments to the i lest's Charter during project
implementation will require IDA's prior agreement (para. 9.1(f)).
7.4       The Trust comprises three elements (Annex 7)t a Board of Trustees, an
NGO Advisory Board and an executive arm. It will liaise with GOSL through the
Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation. A technical assistance team
assists the Board and a Managing Director, in establishing and operating the
programs of the Trust. The executive arm of the Trust has established its own
personnel and administrative procedures outside civil service rules and
regulations.



- 32 -
7.5       The Board of Trustees.   As patron of the Trust, H.E. the President of
Sri Lanka nominated a Board of Trustees, consisting of people from the public
sector, NGOs, academic institutions and the private sector. The trustees act in
their individual capacity and are chosen for their professional competence and
commitment to poverty alleviation. The Board consists of 16 members, 50Z of whom
are drawn from the public sector. Three of the Trustees are women. The
President will be kept informed of the activities of the Trust through the
Secretary of Finance who is the Chairman of the Trust. Given the demand on the
time of the Secretary, a Vice Chairman acts in his absence and on his behalf.
The Vice Chairman is nominated by the President from the Board members outside
the civil service.
7.6       The Board of Trustees is to meet at least 10 times a year.  Operating
concerns are delegated to the Managing Director who is a competent Sri Lankan,
selected by the Board for his managerial competence and familiarity with poverty
alleviation and self-employment schemes. The Managing Director is responsible to
the Board for the running of the Trust. The Chairman, the Board of Trustees and
the Managing Director were nominated before appraisal and the heads of the five
contemplated departments and necessary support staff were in position before
negotiations.
7.7       The NGO Advisory Board.  The Trust has an advisory committee
consisting of NGOs and peoples' organizations as representatives of the poor,
with the objectives of advising the trustees and the Managing Director on the
problems and needs of the poor, as well as on the suitability and effectiveness
of the programs that are being implemented at the grass root level.
7.8       MPPI Liaison.  For many of its activities, particularly for the Rural
Works Program, the Trust will need to gain the cooperation of officials in the
central line agencies and the regional administrations at district and divisional
levels. This cooperation will be assisted by MPPI, the Secretary for which is
the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and senior officials in which have the
responsibility for the development of the Trust, and who will be responsible for
liaison effort with other agencies during implementation.
7.9       The organization structure of the Trust shall be flexible, and is the
responsibility of the Managing Director in consultation with and approval of the
Board. The organizational structure combines managerial, promotional, appraisal,
supervision, accounting, monitoring and credit skills. The initial grouping of
the functions of the Trust under six departments together with an outline of the
tasks and responsibilities of each of the functions is given in Annex 1.
Operating Strategy
7.10      The Credit and HRD Funds.  In order to ensure that the Trust's
resources reach the intended beneficiaries for financially viable and sustainable
income generating activities, the Trust's management is expected to operate
independently of any political or bureaucratic interference. The staff of the
Credit Fund would be high caliber professionals with extensive experience in
rural credit. The Trust would identify innovative methods of credit delivery
t!rough grassroots level government and non-government organizations (Annex 1).
The Trust management would support POs which have the ability to reach the target
population, are able to lend and recover loans and have sufficient backing to



- 33 -
bear the costs and risks of lending. The Trust would also assist and support the
POs in steering clear of possible political interference by adhering to the
agreed definition of ultimate beneficiaries.
7.11      The success of the credit operations would also depend on the ability
of the POs in assisting the beneficiaries in selecting sound income generating
activities and providing appropriate services to ensure successful project
implementation. The Trust through its HRD Promotion and Field Support Department
would assist POs to develop appropriate capacity, and in collaboration with its
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit disseminate to POs those models which are found
successful.
7.12      It is important, however, that the Trust does not get involved in
detailed field work or in propping up wfeaker organizations. It should play the
role of promoter, stimulator of innovation and mobilizer of the institutional
support to the poor. In order to carry out these functions effectively, the
Trust should be well informed about the activities of its POs, knowledgeable
about those activities that work and that do not, and willing to facilitate
interchange of lessons and ideas among its borrowers.
7.13      Operationally, the Trust would develop a collaborative partnership
role vis-a-vis its partner organizations. Rather than responding passively to
institutional requests for project finance, it will develop a promotional
outreach, enabling it to actively solicit not only credit or rural works project
proposals but also related capacity building proposals. Specifically, the
Promotions and Field Support Department of the Trust will be charged with the
task of identifying the grassroots organizations and assisting them in design and
development of sustainable and effective programs. It will also follow an
experimental approach documenting and sharing experiences through monitoring and
evaluation.
7.14      Rural Works Fund.  The RWF would seek to collaborate with institutions
at regional levels taking advantage of the decentralization process in government
agencies and of the emergence of local-level people's organizations and their
networks. Working with community organizations and smaller NGOs on small
projects and government agencies and established NGOs on larger projects, a key
element of the strategy would be to encourage communities to participate fully in
the identification and planning of all projects financed by the RWF. The Fund
would operate through a process of project formulation, application, negotiation,
approval and release of funds accompanied by an appropriate support package. An
organization will become a partner organization when an agreement is reached that
commits that organization to implement a project with Trust funds.
7.15      The implementation of the rural works program relies on the
decentralized levels of the line agencies and on the planning and coordinating
functions of the MPPI, now being developed at the AGA divisional level. The
Trust will encourage bottom-up identification and local participation and a
project-by-project cycle rather than one based on annual plans and budgets.
7.16      With respect to phasing, the strategy is to start with sectoral
activities and collaborating institutions which have experience and capacity. At
the same time, Trust staff would need to engage in a massive effort to identify
promising implementing agencies and design procedures, as well as set up a



- 34 -
technical support and monitoring service. This implies a gradual build-up of the
volume of grants from a relatively modest start.
7.17      The initial attention would focus on road and irrigation maintenance
where the infrastructure is currently operated at a fraction of its capacity but
could be upgraded quickly by labor-intensive methods. Rural sanitation offers
another quick starting activity as there are already well functioning programs in
place that could be supported. Village irrigation, forestry and soil
conservation, on the other hand, would need to be approached more cautiously and
systematically. In establishing the sector-specific criteria for irrigation
schemes, the Trust would ensure that it is consistent with the criteria applied
under the proposed National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
7.18      Grass root participation will require a gradual build-up of the
capacity of local institutions to undertake contracting and to assume
responsibility for the regular maintenance of the upgraded facilities. In the
irrigation sector such an approach has recently become national policy. By
working with village organizations and NGOs in particular, opportunities would be
created for direct community participation in the identification and formulation
of proposed projects. Community control of assets and of income from use of
these assets would also be an important program feature, underwritten where
necessary by credit and technical assistance to develop business opportunities
for the poor in related activities like aquaculture in rehabilitated tanks, tree
nurseries, woodlots in forestry, for example.
7.19      The Nutrition Fund.  Part-time volunteers would be deployed at the
average rate of one per 500 population, providing typical rural coverage of 35
under-three children and 12 pregnant or lactating women. Supervision would be at
the rate of one per ten volunteers. An implementing NGO in an AGA division
typically would recruit, train and manage 100-120 volunteers, 10-12 full-time
supervisors and a project manager. The Nutrition Division would contract with
institutions such as the Agrarian Research and Training Institute for development
of curricula, materials and the conduct of pre- and in-service training for NGO
nutrition volunteers and staff. The scale of incremental AGA implementation
would bes Year 1-15; Year 2-25; Year 3-30; Year 4-50, and Year 5-60.
C. Partner Organizations
7.20      Borrowers from the Credit Fund and recipients of the grants funds will
be government agencies, NGOs, GROs, cooperatives and financial intermediaries
which lend to the poor. These organizations would become eligible for project
support provided they have (a) socio-economic objectives consistent with the
overall objectives of the project; (b) proven track record in organizing and
assisting community groups; and (c) manaperial capacity to identify and supervise
small borrowers and community rural works teams. Eligible POs would enter into a
participating agreement with the Trust. A financial simulation of a typical PO
is given in Annex 9. During negotiations a draft of a participating agreement
was agreed in substance (para. 9.3(b)).
7.21      The likely partner organizations for the Credit Fund and the Human
Resource Development Fund are the Regional Rural Development Banks (RRDBs),
Thrift and Credit Cooperative Societies (TCCSs), Commercial Banks (for selected
schemes), National Youth Services Cooperative Organization (NYSCO), Sarvodaya-



- 35 -
SEEDS and other selected NGOs. Likely partner organizations for use of the Rural
Works Fund will be the government agencies involved in rural infrastructure
development, selected NGOs and Rural Development Societies (RDSs). Nutrition
interventions will be primarily implemented through NGOs and GROs.
D. Administration Procedures
7.22      Procurement.  Under the Credit Fund, individual subloans to ultimate
beneficiaries are expected to be below US$1,000 per subloan and the use of
subloans would be governed by regulations and procedu.es specified by the POs.
Subloans would be used for productive purposes related to agriculture, artisanal
production, transport, petty-trading and other services. The funds would be
used by individual beneficiaries for purchase of goods and services as agreed by
the POs through established commercial practices. The Rural Works Fund would
finance purchase of small tools and equipment and operating costs of implementing
agencies. The Trust would ensure that small tools and equipment and other
materials costing more than US$15,000 per contract would be purchased through
local competitive bidding while other items of lower value would be purchased
through prudent shopping. Small works would be carried out by force account
because their nature and size do not justify competitive contracting.
7.23      Vehicles and motorcycles, computer equipment, office equipment,
furniture, and other goods to be procured under the project would be purchased
thrcugh prudent shopping when the value is less than US$15,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate of US$4 million. Where the value of items or groups of items
exceed US$15,000 but is below US$200,000 local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA would apply. Items or group of items exceeding US$200,000
would be purchased under the international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure.
However, as the above items would be bought in batches over the five-year project
implementation period, it is unlikely that they would be large enough for ICB.
The Trust should ensure that goods financed by IDA, would, to the extent
possible, be grouped to encourage competitive bidding.
7.24      The consultants required under the Technical Assistance Component
would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of
Consultants.



- 36 -
Table 7.1: Procurement Arrangements
ICB     LCB     Other    N/A  Total Cost
Project Elements                                     - (US$ million) -------------
Credit                                                              35.0    35.0
(20.0)  (20.0)
Tools, Equipment, Materials & Works*  -         8.0     8.3        -      16.3
-      (7.2)   (7.5)             (14.7)
Computers, Equipment, Furniture
and Supplies*                        -        3.2     2.6        -       5.8
(3.2)   (2.6)              (5.8)
Vehicles & Motorcycles*                 -       0.6     0.5        -       1.1
(0.6)   (0.5)              (1.1)
Technical Assistance
Policy Formulation                     -        -       1.4        -       1.4
(1.3)              (1.3)
Training                               -        -       -         14.6    14.6
(14.6)  (14.6)
Recurrent Costs                           -       -       -         10.8    10.8
TOTAL                                    -       11.8    12.8       60.4    85.0
(11.0)  (11.9)    (34.6)  (57.5)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
* As most items would be purchased in batches over a five-year period, it is
unlikely that they would be large enough for ICB.
7.25      Bidding documents for all contracts exceeding $50,000 to be procured
under LCB procedures, the first four contracts under $50,000, and all contracts
to be procured under ICB, if any, would be sent to IDA for prior review. Other
contracts and bid evaluations would be subject to random ex-post review by IDA
staff.
7.26      Disbursement Procedures.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over a period of five years (Annex 10) against the categories of expenditure
shown in Table 7.2 below:



- 37 -
Table 7.2: Allocation of Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA
Category of Expenditures                      Allocation      2 of Expenditures
(US$ million)    Financed by IDA
1.  Line of Credit                               20.0                100
2.  Civil Works                                  13.2                 90
3.  Computers, Equipment, Furniture                     100X of foreign costs;
and Supplies                                5.2  100% of ex-factory cost
4.  Vehicles and Motorcycle                       1.0   of local expenditures
907 of local expenditure
5.  Technical Asst. & Studies                     1.3
6.  Training                                     13.1                100
7.  Unallocated                                   3.7
7.27      All disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$20,000 would be made against full documentation. Disbursements below that
level would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for which supporting
documents would be maintained by the Trust and would be made available for review
by IDA staff. A Special Account in US dollars would be opened in the CBSL, with
an initial deposit of US$3.0 million corresponding to about four months estimated
disbursements. The application for replenishment will be submitted monthly or
whenever the special account is drawn down to 40? of its initial deposit,
whichever occurs first.
7.28      Accounts and Audit.  The Trust would maintain its accounts in
accordance with acceptable commercial accounting practices. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOSL and the Trust that an independent external
auditor satisfactory to IDA would be appointed and that certified copies of
Trust's financial statements including corresponding audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within four months of the end of Trust's financial year. The
audit report would include an opinion on controls and procedures for the use of
the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) under the Project (para.
9.2(i)).
7.29      The Trust would compile a list of auditors which the recipients of
loan and grant funds would be required to use for providing an annual audit and
specify the terms of engagement and scope of audit.
7.30      Reporting Requirements.  The Trust would provide operational data on
the four funds it operates reasonably requested by IDA. These would include an
annual budget and three years projections by the start of each accounting year,
and quarterly operational summaries. These reports would include breakdowns by
partner organization and the global totals of loans disbursed from the Credit
Fund, recoveries, and amounts rescheduled and amounts fallen due but not
recovered, and the capital/reserve position of the borrowers. Subloan purposes
would also be reported, as would the number of loans made. The Trust's



- 38 -
operational summaries for the Credit Fund would also include a brief description
of each borrower and each borrowers operations with a focus on gender and
location.
7.31      Similarly, .-he operational suummaries of the HRDF, RWF and NF would
include nature and extent of expenditure, i.e., on social mobilization, training,
capital and recurrent costs with a focus on location and gender. The RWF
summaries would also include the wage bill and its adjustment with JSP
entitlement, employment and physical infrastructure created. The EPPU would
provide an updated annual and a three-year plan of studies every year for IDA's
approval.
7.32      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Regular program reviews are necessary to
check overall program direction, performance of specific components and periodic
assessment of the ability of the program to reach the intended beneficiaries.
These reviews would focus on programmatic and financial progress as well on their
impact on the poor and the unemployed. Such monitoring and evaluation would be
conducted primarily through the review of the standardized and other records of
the operations of the partner organizations, collected and analyzed by the Trust.
7.33      The objective is to warn managers of the problems in program
implementation and alert them of the need for investigation of causes of
performance deviation and recourse to necessary corrective action by appropriate
modifications in the program. The system would avoid the relentless pursuit of
targets and over-rapid program expansion, and provide more attention to quality
of implementation.
7.34      In addition, a mid-term impact assessments will be made by an
independent research organization. This will cover the impact of the Trust's
act"vities on women, adoption of new technologies, environmental impact and other
dimensions of poverty. Such external evaluations would also review the
effectiveness of the Trust in achieving its objectives. During negotiations
agreement was reached that the Trust would appoint an independent research
organization to conduct such an assessment in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA by June 30, 1993 for the report to be available by December 31,
1993 (para. 9.2(j)). The proposed monitoring and evaluation system is described
in Annex 11.
7.35      An IDA supervision plan for the project is in Annex 12.
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1       The major direct benefit of the project is institution-building in the
area of human resource development and credit for the poor. Organizations with
considerable geographic outreach, but limited poverty focus, would be assisted to
reorient their capacity, and those with a stronger poverty focus, but limited
outreach and credit management procedures would be strengthened and assisted to
expand. NGO networks would also be strengthened and improved linkages between
banks and NGOs developed.



- 39 -
8.2       About one million poor are expected to benefit from the resources made
available under the project over the next five years. Nearly 175,000 poor
household would have the opportunity to increase their earning through the Credit
Fund; about half of these would be women. Over 10 million work days of
employment, representing Rs 600 million in wage income would be generated from
rural works. The RWF would also create long-term employment for about 45,000 men
and women, in addition to building economically viable infrastructure.
8.3       The nutrition component will benefit up to one million children under
three years of age and 300,Al'D pregnant and nursing mothers.
8.4       Important intangible social benefits include improvement in the social
status of women, creation of the organizational base of the poor giving them
independence from traditional sources of village-level patronage.
8.5       Through the project's activities indirect benefits will arise,
including more active, informed and effective government programs for the poor,
an increase in NGO activities among the rural poor, and a larger prospective on
how poverty alleviation occurs and how the barriers to progress by the poor can
be addressed.
B. Risks
8.6       A major risk is that over time the Government would subject the
project to pressures of patronage. Furthermore, political interference and
bureaucratic controls could stifle the creativity and impartiality of the Trust.
8.7       Another risk is that enthusiasm to do something for the poor might
overwhelm the stringent requirements that have to be m.t for the credit portfolio
to be self-sustaining, training to be meaningful and infrastructure created to be
economically viable.
8.8       To minimize these risks the project includes the following factors
that offer prospects for self-correcting behavior during implementation that
should promote sustainability in delivering financial and other services to the
poor.
(a) Performance criteria for partner organizations are clearly spelled out
and enforceable; POs which do not meet performance standards will be
denied access to project resources.
(b) Selection of beneficiaries will be agreed upon before project
implementation begins and they will be organized into groups which
will discourage those outside the target groups to attempt to gain
control of project resources.
(c) The proposed project engages NGOs, which are expected to provide a
grass root level commitment and flexibility in the development of
delivery systems. The proposed advisory committee consisting of only
NGOs would be able to collect information on the use of project funds
at the grassroots level.



- 40 -
(d) Finally, the Government's commitment to poverty alleviation and the
selection of a Board of Trustees composed of individuals committed to
poverty alleviation can be expected to ensure the success of the
Trust'  operations by respecting its professionalism and impartiality.
C. Programs of Special Emphasis
8.9       Women.  Nearly one-half of all beneficiaries of the project a-'
expected to be poor women (Annex 13)9 The Trust will encourage partner
organizations to organize poor women in separate groups, provide them training in
skills and micro-entrepreneurial development and credit. In addition, nearly
300,000 women will benefit from the nvtrition component.
8.10      Environment.  No specific environmental dimensions will be included in
project activities, which will be small-scale and primarily rural. However, GOSL
programs and NGOs that would in principle be eligible for project support,
attempt to assist the poor in several ways simultaneously, such as group
formation and skills acquisition. Experience shows that when poor become
empowered through organization they are quick to address environmental issues,
especially as they relate to public health and nutrition.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.1       During negotiations the following agreements were reached with GOSL:
(a) GOSL will contribute US$5 million to the Trust's Credit Risk Fund -
US$3 million before IDA Credit becomes effective and US$2 million
before December 1, 1992 (para. 5.12).
(b) GOSL would onlend the rupee equivalent of IDA's allocations to the
Credit Fund (US$20 million) at 3Z repayable in 25 years with a five-
year grace period for principal and interest, and would bear the
foreign exchange risk (para. 5.13).
(c) GOSL would maintain thriposha production levels of 870 metric tons
monthly during project implementation and would allocate to the Trust
as much of that offtake as the nutrition component would require.
And, in each division where the nutrition component operates, the AGA
would chair quarterly meetings of the division nutrition-health
coordinating committee to be set up under terms of reference and with
representation satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.38).
(d) The Employment and Poverty Policy Unit will develop a three-year
action plan which will be updated annually by October 31 of each year
and approved by IDA (para. 5.50).
(e) IDA's contribution of US$36.2 million is passed on to the Trust as
grant for implementation of HRDF, RWF and NF activities (para. 6.2).
(f) Amendments to the Trust's Charter during project implementation will
require IDA's prior agreement (para. 7.3).



- 41 -
9.2       During negotiations agreement was reached between GOSL, the Trust and
IDA that the Trust would:
(a) use the following eligibility criteria for P09 using the Credit Funds
(i) partner organizations should have at least two years' experience
in lending to the target populations
(ii) the loan recovery rate of the PO during the two years proceeding
loan application should be at least 70Z of the loans falling duet
(iii) all subborrowers have been enrolled in a savings program at the
time they receive credit and through the period for which they are
indebted;
(iv) PO must establish an accounting and financial reporting system
acceptable to the Trust, and agree to have accounts audited
annually by an independent auditor (para. 5.13).
(b) require PO to achieve subloan recovery performance of no less than
9o0 from the subborrowers and on time repayment to the Fund for
continued eligibility to the Trust's resources (para. 5.16).
(c) review on lending rates to the POs from the Trust with IDA and GOSL
semi-annually in the light of the POs operating and risk costs and
make appropriate adjustment. The maturities of loans to POs would be
based on maturities of subloans from POs to the ultimate beneficiaries
but would not exceed three years with six months grace period
(para. 5.17);
(d) require POs to limit all subloans to a maximum of Rs 40,000 (US$1,000
equivalent). Total loans of a PO to a subborrower would not exceed
the subloan limit of Rs 40,000 (US$1,000 equivalent) at any given
time. Rescheduling would be considered only once for a mximum period
of two years in extreme circumstances such as natural disasters or
loss of income earning assets. The subloans maturity would be
determined by the projected cashflow from the productive activity
(para. 5.19).
(e)  PO would maintain separate project accounts, and prepare an annual
income statement, source and utilization of funds status, and a
balance sheet certified by an independent auditor (para. 5.20).
(f) insist that POs onlending rate would not be less than the average
weighted interest rate charged by the Commercial Banks, Development
Finance Company of Ceylon, National Development Bank of Sri Lanka,
Regional Rural Development Banks, Credit Societies and Cooperatives,
as published semi-annually by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. The
Trust would review rates determined by POs semi-annually, and agree on
a rate to be used for subloans for the ensuing six months (para.
5.22);



- 42 .
(g) use the following eligibility criteria for providing POs with HRDF
grant support:
(i) POs would have at least one year experience in organizing the
poor;
(ii) POs would agree to a medium-term development plan linking human
resources with use of Credit and other Trust activities; and
(iii) Continued access to HRDF will be against compliance with
previously agreed activities (para. 5.29).
(h) use the following eligibility criteria for RWP project grantss
(i) projects should generate substantial employment and use local
labor to the extent possible. The labor component should be in
excess of 50Z of the total contract cost (compared to 30Z in
current works); wage rates would be consistent with those
prevailing in the project area, and JSP entitlement in JSP areas
would be paid in lieu of wages that they would otherwise earn; and
(ii) projects must meet the Trust's technical requirements in each sub-
sector (para. 5.33).
(i) appoint an independent external auditor satisfactory to IDA; certified
copies of Trust's financial statements including corresponding audit
reports will be submitted to IDA within four months of the end of the
Trust's financial year. The audit reports would also include an
opinion on controls and procedures for use of Special Account and
Statement of Expenditures under the project (para. 7.28).
(j) appoint an independent research organization to conduct a mid-term
impact assessment with terms of reference acceptable to IDA by June
30, 1993 for the report to be available by December 31, 1993 (para.
7.34).
9.3       During negotiations, drafts of the following documents were agreed in
substances
(a) subsidiary loan agreement between GOSL and the Trust (para. 5.13); and
(b) participation agreements between the Trust and POs (para. 7.20).
9.4       The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) transfer of US$3 million from GOSL to the Trust's Credit Risk Fund
(para. 5.12).
(b) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
GOSL and the Trust (para. 5.13); and



- 43 -
(c)  signing of UNDP project documents, providing technical assistance to
the Trust (para. 5.45).
9.5       With the above agreements, the proposed Project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Development Credit of SDR 40.6 million (US$57.5 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 44 -                    Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Operation of the Credit and Grant Funds
1.        This annex describes the operating procedures for each of the three
funds operated by the Janasaviya Trust. These funds are:
(a) The Credit Fund
(b) The Human Resource Development Fund
(c) The Rural Works Fund
(d) The Nutrition Fund
TEE CREDIT FUND - ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
obiective
2.        The Credit Fund would be managed by the Credit Division of the
Trust. Its purpose is to supply credit through P09 for micro-enterprise and
self-employment schemes by the poor and unemployed youth.
3.        Identification of potential POs would be undertaken with the
assistance from the Promotion and Field Support Division. Responsibility for
helping POs and beneficiaries to develop capabilities to access credit is with
the Human Resource and Institutional Development Division.
Eligible Partner Organizations
4.        Credit funds are available for each primary outlet (branch) of a
partner organization, provided the primary outlet hass
at least two years experience in credit operations;
an operational savings scheme;
a 702 or better on-time collection rate on its
lending (90? after one year for continued access);
established loan administration procedures and is financially
viable; and
undertaken mobilization and training for intended beneficiaries by
animators or field officers for at least three months before the
first credit is disbursed.



- 45 -                   Annex I
Page 2 of 8
Prequalification of Eligible Organizations
5.        National P09 would identify beforehand, in agreement with the
Trust, those branches or primary outlets that meet the above criteria. Trust
Officers (from the Credit Division or via Field Support Staff) would visit the
organization and establish that the Trust's requirements in administrative
practice and beneficiary support have been met. If the applicant has received
a grant from the Human Resources Development Fund, the Trust will verify that
the objectives behind the grant have been achieved.
6.        New credit outlets established by national or large regional POs
with existing credit operations need only meet the requirement of three
months' experience in mobilizing and training beneficiaries, and have estab-
lished accounting and reporting procedures that meet the Trust's approval.
Operation of the Fund
7.        Prequalified POs would borrow against subloans made to the benefi-
ciaries each quarter (or at other such frequency that is decided in conjunc-
tion with the Trust).
8.        Information contained in the quarterly application for funding
request would be:
-    Name of organization and location;
-    Names of applicants for subloans, amounts, terms, conditions and
brief purpose.
9.        National or regional organizations would summarize applications of
the primary outlets and would submit this summarized application to the Trust.
Details on applicant, amount and purpose of each subloan would still be
provided.
10.       For established partners that are meeting criteria, the Trust would
forward the requested amount immediately. Data required for monitoring and
evaluation purposes would be recorded in the Trust's information system.
Operating Costs of Partner Organizations
11.       The rate of interest on borrowings from the Trust will be 7Z.  The
minimum onlending rate to borrowers from the beneficiary target crop will be
the weighted average commercial lending rate plus 12 (currently totalling
19.6Z).
12.       As early as possible in the project, POs are expected to meet costs
of social mobilization, administrative overheads and loan defaults from the
interest spread between the cost of funds obtained from the Trust and the
onlending rate. Trust staff will review arrangements that the partner
organization is making in the achievement of this objective. Partners whose



- 46 -                  Annex l
Page 3 of 8
operating costs and default loans are less than the maximum available under
the Trust would use the funds that are made available to finance additional
loans.
13.       Partner organizations will be expected to hold back from subloans
an amount equivalent to 5Z of the sum that is borrowed. This holdback will be
invested on the subloan borrower's behalf and earn tnterest at passbook rates.
The purpose of the holdback is to provide additional income to that outlet of
the partner organization, to provide a cushion against default and to further
inculcate a savings discipline in the beneficiaries.
Rescheduling of Loans
14.       Partner organizations can reschedule each subloan and the equiva-
lent amount with the Trust over a two-year period, if conditions of regional
disaster or of extreme personal difficulty are encountered by subloan bor-
rowers. The Trust would permit only one rescheduling, which would be for a
maximum of two years.
THE HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT FUND - SELECTION CRITERIA AND OPERATING
PROCEDURES
Obiectives
15.       The Human Resource Development Fund will be managed by the Human
Resource and Institutional Development Division of the Trust. The fund is
intended to help partner organizations (POs) to increase their capacity to
mobilize, supply credit to and support unemployed youth and the poor in income
generatir..: activities. The fund operates by providing grants to the P0O
for the exz .'nditures listed below:
(a) training of staff and the provision of consultancies to strengthen
knowledge and skills in the development of credit and related bene-
ficiary support activities;
(b) study visits to similar organizations in the Asia Region;
(c) consultancies designed to strengthen the management of poorly
performing branches and outlets;
(d) costs of networking workshops and seminars designed to share exper-
ience and learning among P09 and between P0 and the Trust, and to
establish a network of organizations responsible for implementing
the project at the grass roots level;
(e) training of beneficiaries in income generating capabilities;
(f) purchases of equipment and vehicles needed to manage the program;



- 47 -                  Annex I
Page 4 of 8
(g) recurrent costs, such as salaries of additional staff, incentive
payments, travelling costs of staff, maintenance of equipment and
vehicles associated with human rasource mobilization and skills
training, as agreed by the Trust. The maximum period for branches
and outlets to receive these grants is three years. It is antici-
pated that these costs would be met by the interest rate spread
within this period; and
(h) grants would also be made available to training institutions for
upgrading staff capabilities and for developing curricula that meet
the Trust's training needs.
Eligible Partner Organizations
16.       Grants under the Human Resource Development Fund are made for the
above expenditures to organizations which meet the following criteria:
(a) the organization has at least 12 months' experience in group mobi-
lization and training; and
(b) it has an established savings scheme operating with beneficiaries.
Selection Criteria
17.       Grants from the Trust are made on the condition that the partner
organization:
(a) commits to undertake mobilization and training activities with
unemployed youth and the poor, in order to assist them in identify-
ing viable micro-enterprise activities and in obtaining credit;
(b)  obtains -n "in-principle" agreement from the Credit Division of the
Trust to .1-1ply credit if the human resource development activities
prove to be effective;
(c) provides a medium term development plan for each PO which links the
use of the Human Resource Development Fund with the proposed use of
credit from the Trust;
(d) commits (for national or regional POs with several primary outlets)
to recruit and train staff and to establish procedures that meet
the Trust's criteria. New primary outlets would not require prior
experience to obtain grant funds under these conditions; and
(e) for repeat grants, HRDF grants are made against satisfactory
achievements under previous grants.



- 48 -                   Annex I
Page 5 of 8
OperatinR Procedures of the Fund
18.       Commitments by the Trust to provide grants for capital and recur-
rent expenses will be made under a set of conditions on which the partner
organization and the Trust will agree. These conditions are that the grant:
(a) will be for a maximum period of one year for recurrent expenses,
renewed on agreement from the Trust;
(b) is reimbursed each quarter against a statement of expensess
(c) is appraised against cost guidelir.es established by the Trust for
salaries, training expenses, travel, per diem allowances, and
consultancy costs; and
(d) if required for purchases over Rs 50,000 (or alternate amount
approved by the Board of the Trust), will be expended only after
obtaining prior competitive quotations.
19.       The Human Resources and Institutional Development Division will
start operations by identifying potential POs. The division will assess their
programs and agree with them on the nature of assistance required to build
their capacity for achieving the Trust objectives. In this regard, the staff
will also assess the capabilities of local and regional training organizations
which could be contracted to provide specific expertise in training or techni-
cal assistance. In collaboration with the Promotion and Field Support
Division, the division's staff will also identify smaller NGOs with little
track record requiring capacity building and training to become effective
partners. The Trust would agree with the partner organization on a devel-
opment plan which would link the grant assistance to the Credit Fund. This
plan would clearly state the number and type of beneficiaries (lending, rural
works or nutrition beneficiaries) that would be ultimately reached by the POs,
the expected amount to be drawn from the Credit Fund for the lending target
groups, and the specific training and technical assistance interventions
required to build the capacity of the POs. Costing guidelines would be
developed by the HRDF Division for, among others, training costs, trainers'
fees and consulting services. Allowance for a variety of approaches and
flexibility would be required in view of the different nature of the POs. An
individual agreement with each PO would commit grants for training and
institution building for a maximum period of three years, to be reviewed on a
yearly basis.
RURAL WORKS FUND - SELECTION CRITERIA AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Obiectives
20.       The management of this Fund is the responsibility of the Rural
Works Division, with the assistance of the Promotion and Field Support
Division and Human Resource and Institutional Development Division.
Its objectives are:



- 49 -                  Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
(a) to provide income for the poor through the labor
intensive construction of viable rural infrastructure; and
(b) to the extent possible, to maximize the long-term sustainable in-
come generation capacity of the poor. It would achieve this objec-
tive through the choice of the infrastructure projects that incre-
ase the incomes for the poor, in the establishment of maintenance
contracts or in training and upgrading skills that will lead to
further employment.
Selection Criteria
21.       Grants for rural works project will be made to AGAs, NGOs, and
grass roots organizations able to identify and manage rural works projects
that meet the Trust's criteria, as follows:
(a) must be at least 50Z labor intensive, unless otherwise approved by
the Director, Rural Works (the exception would be for small pro-
jects that have a high material cost content);
(b) employment is aimed at project beneficiaries in the region;
(c) the project must has significant social and/or economic benefits
which must meet one or more of the following priorities of the
Fundt
Ci) highest priority to projects which provide employment to the
poor, and where the long-term economic or social benefits
accrue to the poor (e.g. irrigation schemes for marginal
farmers, market or job access facilities for the poor, water
sanitation or other social facilities in deprived areas. etc.);
(ii) next priority to projects which build a sustainable income
generating capability (through on-the-job training and assis-
tance in the acquisition of employable skills and/or through
the establishment of operations and maintenance contracts);
and/or
(iii)  lowest priority is for projects where the poor receive wage
employment, but where the long term benefits go to the
non-poor;
(d) adequate arrangements for design, management of implementation and
maintenance can be established;
(e) to the extent possible, the project promotes grass roots particip-
ation in the identification and planning of the project; and
(f) the project meets the technical requirements in cash sub-sector
(irrigation, roads, etc.) prepared by PACT Consultants.



- 50 -                  Annex I
Page 7 of 8
Assessment of Application for Grants
22.       The information required for an assessment of an application is
designed to provide Trust staff with an indication that the project is viable
and will meet Trust criteria. This information provides details ons
(a) location, duration and type of projects
(b) numbers and wage cost of beneficiaries in work force;
(c) evidence of compliance with Trust's selection criteria;
(d) organizational and management arrangements for implementation and
maintenance;
(e) funding required of Trust;
(f) arrangements made for design and technical supervision of construc-
tion, and where appropriate, agreement of concerned technical
agency that project is feasible and conforms to regional develop-
ment plans;
(g) preliminary technical details; and
(h) proposed financing and reimbursement arrangements.
23.       A preliminary screen and an in-principle approval would be given on
basis of above information.  Rural Works Division Staff would visit the site
and meet with implementing agencies to review arrangements for engineering
design that may be needed. Costing and management details, together with any
further technical assistance needed that may be required would also be
assessed.
24.       Compliance with complete technical and operational criteria would
also be assessed. Smaller projects could be reviewed on site by field
support staff on behalf of the Rural Works Division.
Operations of the Rural Works Projects
25.       Rural Works Division staff would visit the project at least once
during the construction period, and on completion. Staff of the Field Support
section would inspect smaller projects on behalf of the Dlvision.
26.       Payments would be made against an agreed schedule of completed
work. Projects requiring inspection and certification of completed work would
use Trust staff to the maximum extent possible.
OPBRATION OF TI= NUTRITION COMPONENT
27.       The nutrition program, managed by the Nutrition Division of the
Trust, shall operate through NGOs who are willing to organize and supervise
volunteers on an AGA divisional basis to provide services, advice and nutri-
tional feeding supplement to at-risk pregnant women, nursing mothers and
severely malnourished or growth faltering children to three years of age.
28.       The task of the NGO volunteers is to spend approximately 2-3 hours
daily in their selected villages in weighing children, recording and analyzing



- 50 -                  Annex I
Page 7 of 8
Assessment of Application for Grants
22.       The information required for an assessment of an application is
designed to provide Trust staff with an indication that the project ls viable
and will meet Trust criteria. This information provides details on:
(a) location, duration and type of project;
(b) numbers and wage cost of beneficiaries in work force;
(c) evidence of compliance with Trust's selection criteria;
(d) organizational and management arrangements for implementation and
maintenance;
(e) funding required of Trust;
(f) arrangements made for design and technical supervision of construc-
tion, and where appropriate, agreement of concerned technical
agency that project is feasible and conforms to regional develop-
ment plans;
(g) preliminary technical details; and
(h) proposed financing and reimbursement arrangements.
23.       A preliminary screen and an in-principle approval would be given on
basis of above information. Rural Works Division Staff would visit the site
and meet with implementing agencies to review arrangements for engineering
design that may be needed. Costing and management details, together with any
further technical assistance needed that may be required would also be
assessed.
24.       Compliance with complete technical and operational criteria would
also be assessed. Smaller projects could be reviewed on site by field
support staff on behalf of the Rural Works Division.
Operations of the Rural Works Projects
25.       Rural Works Division staff would visit the project at least once
during the construction period, and on completion. Staff of the Field Support
section would inspect smaller projects on behalf of the Division.
26.       Payments would be made against an agreed schedule of completed
work. Projects requiring inspection and certification of completed work would
use Trust staff to the maximum extent possible.
OPERATION OF THE NUTRITION COMPONENT
27.       The nutrition program, managed by the Nutrition Division of the
Trust, shall operate through NGOs who are willing to organize and supervise
volunteers on an AGA divisional basis to provide services, advice and nutri-
tional feeding supplement to at-risk pregnant women, nursing mothers and
severely malnourished or growth faltering children to three years of age.
28.       The task of the NGO volunteers is to spend approximately 2-3 hours
daily in their selected villages in weighing chlldren, recording and analyzing



- 52 -                         Annex 2
Page . of 2
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Loans to Beneficiaries from Partner Organizations
1.        The partner organizations will finance the productive activities of
the intended beneficiaries who are among the poorest members of the concerned
community. These activities may be ongoing activities (such as in Schedule
A), or those suggested by the partner organization and/or the local community.
2.        The partner organizations will also ensure that:
(a) the activities financed by them are technically feasible and
manageable by the intended beneficiaries;
(b) such lending would improve the sub-borrower's standard of
living/quality of life;
(c) the intended beneficiaries are enrolled in a savings program before
loans are made to them.
Schedule A: SOME ACTIVITIES TO BE FINANCED BY PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS
1. Homestead cultivation
2.  Land leasing
3. Shallow tubewells for irrigation and selling water
4. Paddy husking
5. Coir products
6. Coconut oil making
7. Fishing
8. Fish net making
9. Improvement of fishing boats
10. Purchase of fishing nets and boats
11. Dairy cattle
12. Cattle fattening
13. Agricultural produce trading
14. Grocery shop
15. Transport equipment
16. Polleny products
17. Cane and metal works
18. Garment making
19. Weaving
20. Group based poultry farming
21. Group based rice hutters and oil expellers
22. Group based fish ponds
23. Carpentry



- 53 -                         Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
24. Blacksmithy
25. Soap making
26. Aluminum utensils
27. Fuel briquetting
28. Fish meal and animal feed
29. Shoe making
30. Furniture making
31. Brick making
32. Piggery development



-54 -
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Denosi and Ut Rale8
(Percent Per Annum)
1987            1988            1989             1990
TREASURY BILLS
Primary market                  10.6% - 11.0%   18.5% - 18.9%   15.2% - 17.5%   15.5% - 18.5%
Secondary market                     11.3%            23%             20.5%           21.5%
DEPOSIT RATES
Commercial Bank
Savings deposits               6.0% - 11.0%   5.0% - 11.0%   5.0% - 14.0%    6.0% - 15.0%
6-month fixed                  7.0% - 13.0%   8.0% - 13.5%   8.0% - 16.0%    8.0% - 16.0%
12-month fixed                 8.5% - 14.0%   9.0% - 15.5%   11.0% - 20.5%   11.0% - 21.0%
LEDING RATES
Weighted average prime
lending rate                      14.2%           16.9%            18.0%           17.3%
Development Finance Corporation  14.0% - 19.0%   14.0% - 19.0%   14.0% - 19.0%   14.0% - 19.0%
National Development Bank        7.0% - 14.0%   7.0% - 18.0%   7.0% - 18.0%   10.0% - 21.0%
OTHER SELECTED
LENDING RATES
Agriculture loans refinanced
through Central Bank              n.a.             n.a.            n.a.        12.0% - 14.0%
Bank of Ceylon/Peoples Bank
loans to Youth (NYSCO)            n.a.             n.a.            n.a.             18%
Sarvodaya SEEDS for Small
Enterprise Development            n.a.             n.a.            n.a.             20%
Thrift and Credit
Cooperative Societies             n.a.             n.a.            n.a.       12.0% - 18.0%
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lank - Annual Report.
Average Minimum and Maximum Rates during the year.



- 55 -                  Annex 4
Page 1 of 14
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Financial Prolections for the Credit Fund Operations
1.        The following financial projections for the Credit Fund operations
are prepared to demonstrate the effect various assumptions of interest spread,
operating cost and portfolio performance would have on the financial viability
of the Fund operations. The principal assumptions used in the simulation
presented are summarized belows
(a) The GOSL loan is disbursed 1002 to POs in the year received.
(b) The subloans are repayable within 12 months and 95Z of subloan
collections are re-lent in the following year. The balance 52 is
invested in a liquidity/security fund.
Cc) 25Z of subloan principal falling due is rescheduled over a period
of two years.
(d) Bad loans would amount to 12 of the second year operations, and
increase at 12 per annum until it reaches a maximum of 5Z of total
disbursements in a year.
Se) Interest spread is 4Z.
5f) Operating costs are based on staffing and other cost budget
prepared at appraisal.
(g) Investment income would be at 102.
2.        The above assumptions are variables in the model.  Given a set of
assumptions the model simulates the assets, liabilities, net income and the
cashflow position of the Trust. In addition, the model works out the
collection ratio before and after rescheduling. The two constants in the
model are the GOSL loan financed out of the IDA Credit and the FRG grant of
$30 million and the GOSL contribution to the Risk Fund of $5 million.
3.        The following paragraphs describe the outputs resulting from the
above assumptions. Subsequently, one or two key assumptions are varied to
demonstrate the effect on financial performance.
Lending Activity - Table 1
4.        Table 1 summarizes the lending activity of the Credit Fund.  It
projects the volume of funds disbursed onlending to the rural poor and the



- 56 -                   Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
unemployed. Lending funded from the GOSL loan is termed first round lending,
as disbursements would be made against this activity. As the Trust activities
continue to grow, an increasing share of lending would be funded out of
collections of loans falling due.
Collections of Principal - Table 2
5.        Table 2 projects the collection performance of the Credit Fund on
its loans to partner organizations. Twenty-five percent of amounts falling
due are assumed to be rescheduled, and the amounts uncollectible grow from 12
of total disbursements in year 2 to 41 in year 5. The collection ratio before
rescheduling averages around 801-85Z and after rescheduling around 96Z-982.
Although 252 of new loans falling due are rescheduled, the collection ratio
before rescheduling is higher than 75Z due to the effect of collecting
previously rescheduled amounts.
Credit Fund Income Statement - Table 3
6.        Table 3 projects the Trust's income statement assuming a 31 cost of
funds and a 71 onlending rate. Important sources of income in addition to
this spread are interest earned on balance in the Credit Risk Fund and in the
liquidity/security fund, which would be invested in GOSL securities. The
current yield on six-month Treasury Bill is 152. However, a modest 10 income
on investments is assumed in the projections. The projections are simplified
by assuming that loans are disbursed in the first day of the year and
recovered on the last day of the year.
7.        The amount of Credit Fund loans falling into arrears is expected to
be negligible at the outset, but increases to 42 of disbursement in year 5.
The amounts falling into arrear are assumed unrecoverable and written -off
against income. As the Credit Fund would be wholesaling credit, its operating
cost is assumed to remain low.
Credit Fund Assets - Table 4
8.        The asset side of the balance sheet is presented in Table 4. The
Credit Fund's major asset Is cash held. The presentation assumes that all
lending during the disbursement period is short term. However, the
introduction of term lending should not have a material effect on Credit
Fund's income or on the size of the Credit Fund. The other significant assets
are the Credit Risk Fund created out of the initial GOSL grant and the
liquidity/security fund created by retaining 5 of loan collections. The tws
funds together ($9.6 million in year 5) will exceed the value of the
rescheduled loans outstanding ($7.6 million in year 5) in any given year. The
model assumes that the rescheduled amounts will be collected in full. As long
as the risk fund assets exceed the rescheduled loan balance, the Credit Fund
would be able to avoid financial collapse due to large scale default on
rescheduled loans.



-57 -Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
Credit Fund Liabilities and Net Worth - Table 4
9.        The Credit Fund's major liability is the long-tenm loan from GOSL
funded by the proceeds of the IDA credit and the PRG grant. The loan is
assumed to carry an interest rate of 32, with a maturity over 25 years
including five years of grace. The interest is capitalized during the five-
year grace period. Therefore, there is no repayment of principal or interest
during the credit disbursement period.
10.       The Credit Fund's net worth consists of the initial GOSL
contribution of US$5 million and retained earnings.
Credit Fund Sources and Uses of Funds - Table 5
11.       Table 6 summarizes the Credit Fund's flow of funds, which
mathematically integrates the balance sheet and the income statement. The
sources and uses of funds statement is presented in several parts
correspondinq to the major activities of the Fund.
12.       Part I shows the financing of the Fund's administration.  This is
shown separately as funding of the Credit Fund's administration costs out of
its income is fundamental to the viability of the Fund. The major sources of
funds for this purpose include net income from the Credit Fund operations,
income from investments in the Credit Risk Fund and the liquidity/security
fund, and the retention of cash due to capitalization of interest on the GOSL
loan.
13.       Part II shows the mechanics of the Credit Fund's use of outside
funding.  The GOSL loan received is fully available for credit operations.
No loan repayments are due in the disbursement period. GOSL grant received is
fully invested in a Credit Risk Fund. The net effect of these flows show the
new funds available for first round lending each year.
14.       Part III continues the progression by showing how funds are used in
credit operations. Here the amounts disbursed constitute a use of funds and
the recoveries provide a source of funds. As all loans are assumed to be of
short-term, the use of funds in a year should be zero if all borrowers pay on
time. However, this rarely happens and 25Z of the annual disbursements are
assumed to be rescheduled. Some delayed payments and bad debt losses are
inevitable, especially when lending is innovative, as in the case expected to
occur under the project. The first instance of failure to repay according to
contract is provided for by rescheduling of amounts that are not received when
originally due. Rescheduling of subloans are done by the partner
organizations, and their action reschedule their loans from the Credit Fund.
The rescheduled loans outstanding and loans in arrear and not considered
recoverable become a use of Trust funds.



- 58 -                   Annez 4
Page 4 of 14
15.       Par IV summarizes the first three parts and shows the change in the
cash position of the Credit Fund, which is a year-end position reflecting the
assumption that all loans are repayable on the last day of the year.
Sensitivity Analysis.
16.       The assumption of loan losses is the most critical fc: the Fund's
operations. As the Fund has a spread of only 42, any loan loss above this
would result in a financial loss to the extent not covered by income from
Fund's investment activities. The simulation can be manipulated to determine
the rate of investment income required to offset different rates of loan
losses. Of course, one could assume higher rates of spread to cover
increasing loan losses. However, this is not considered feasible due to
limitations on ultimate onlending interest rate that could be charged to
beneficiaries and the need to allow sufficient spread to POs.
17.       If the loan loss rate is assumed at 52 in year 2 and assumed to
increase to 102 by year 5, with all other assumptions remaining same the
following changes to the financial position of the Credit Fund take placet
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Collection Ratio
Before reschAeduling      75Z      752      79Z     802     812
After rescheduling       1002      94Z      92Z     902      89Z
Net Cashflow from Operations  415.5   293.0   -30.5   -329.8  -585.3
18.       The net cashflow will turn negative due to the net income from
Credit Fund operations, i.e, the net interest income minus loan losses would
turn negative and the investment income from the Risk Fund investments would
not be sufficient to cover it. However, if the investment income is assumed
to increase to 152 compared to 102 assumed in the model, the Credit Fund would
be able to maintain a positive cashflow provided a minimum collection ratio
after rescheduling of 922 is achieved:
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Collection Ratio after
Rescheduling                1002      942       922      922       922
Net Cashflow                  568.2    439.9      59.6    110.0    192.0
19.       The above simulation shows, given the current yield of Treasury
Bills of about 15Z, the Credit Fund should aim to contain its loan losses well
below 82. This is very critical since from year 6 onwards the Trust will
start repaying the principal and interest on the GOSL loan which would require
it to generate additional funds.



ANNEX 4
- 59 -                                      Page 5 of 14
~~~ 59                          ~~~~~~ ~Scenario 1
Table I
SRI LANKA                                     Page I of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDrr FUND
Projected Financial Statements
(US$ '000)
Trust Lending Activity Summary
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year S
Principal Disbursed to Trust clients
from IDA credit & FRO Grant (first round lending)
to Government Credit Programs                    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
to Non-government Programs                    2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
to State Banks' Programs                         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total first round disbursements                  2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Subsequent round disbursements funded by 95% of
previous year's principal collections of Credit Programs   2,066.3   5,382.2   9,089.0  13,617.9
Total Disbursements                      2A900.0   7,166.3  11,382.2  16,689.0  22,017.9



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 14
60 -                                    Scenario I
Table 2
SRI LANKA                                   Page 2 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CRED1T FUND
Colections Worksheet
(US$ '000)
Year I    Year2    Year3    Year4    Year5
Pncipal from first round lending faUing due   2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Total first round principal faUing due        2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Total subsequmt rounds' principal falling due     0.0   2,066.3   5,382.2   9,089.0  13,617.9
Total principal faUing due before reschedulig  2,900.0   7,166.3  11,382.2  16,689.0  22,017.9
less: Principal rescheduled (assumed 25% falling due)    725.0   1,791.6   2,845.6   4,172.2   5,504.5
Maturities of rescheduled principal                       362.5    362.5
(assumed rescheduled over 2 years)                                  895.8    895.8
1,422.8   1,422.8
2,086.1
Rescheduled principal falling due              0.0    362.5   1,258.3   2,318.6   3,508.9
Total Principal Falling Due after rescheduling  2,175.0   5,737.2   9,795.0  14,835.3  20,022.3
less: Principal falling into arrears              0.0      71.7    227.6    500.7    880.7
(see Income Statement provision)
Total principal collections                   2,175.0   5,665.5   9,567.3  14,334.6  19,141.6
Principal collections recycled into
subsequent round lending (0 95%)              2,066.3   5,382.2   9,089.0  13,617.9  18,184.5
Noruecycled portion to liquidity/security fimd  108.8    283.3    478.4    716.7    957.1
Principal collection rate before rescheduling    0.75      0.79      0.84     C.86      0.87
Principal coUection rate after rescheduling      1.00      0.99     0.98      0.97      0.96



ANNEX 4
- 61 -                                  Page 7 of 14
Table 3
SRI LANKA                                    Page 3 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CRED1T FUND
Projected Income Statement
(US$ '000)
Year I    Year2    Year3    Year4    YearS
Interest income from Credit Fund Operations @ 7%  203.0    501.6     796.8   1,168.2   1,541.3
less: Interest expense on project loan @ 3 %
(Capitalized during 5 yr grace period)        44.3     165.7     335.4     546.9     800.1
Net interest income from credit operations       158.7     335.9     461.4     621.3      741.1
less: Provision for loans in arrears:
% of annual disbursements assumed going into arrea  0.0    1.0       2.0       3.0       4.0
Amount of provision                              0.0      71.7     227.6      500.7     880.7
Net Income from Credit Fund Operations           158.7     264.3     233.7      120.7    (139.6)
Interest income. at 10% of average balance:
Credit Risk Fund                               300.0     530.0     583.0      641.3     705.4
Liquidity/security fund                          5.4      19.6      43.5       79.4     127.2
Net Financial Income                             464.2     813.9     860.3     841.3      693.1
Staff costs                                       22.4      24.4      33.0      35.0      36.6
Other operating expenses                          60.2      73.0      88.4      104.4     109.4
Depreciation expense @ 25%                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net Income (or Loss)                             381.6     716.5     738.9     701.9     547.1
GOSL grants received                           3,000.0   2,000.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other grants received                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Change in Net Worth                            3,381.6   2,716.5     738.9     701.9     547.1



ANNMA
- 62 -                                    Page 8 of 14
Scenario I
Table 4
SRI LANKA                                  Page 4 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Projected Balance Sheet
(US$ '000)
Year I    Year2    Year 3    Year4    YearS
ASSETS
Cash (60 days' staff cost & other oper. experditures)  13.8  16.2    20.2      23.2      24.3
Credit Fund:
Cash available for lending                   2,481.8   6,449.8  10,925.3  16,618.5  22,770.9
(balancing figure from sources & uses)
Accrued interest (assumes all due 31 Dec)       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Unrescheduled loans outstanding                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Rescheduled loans                              725.0   2,154.1   3,741.3   5,595.0   7,590.6
Gross Credit Fund                         3,2u.8   8,u;.8  14,O66./   2,2z13.5  30,301.5
less: Alowance for loans in arrears             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
(assumes provision = new arrears)
Net Credit Fund                            3,206.8   8,603.8  14,666.7  22,213.5  30,361.5
Liquidity/socurity fimd                          108.8    392.0     870.4   1,587.1   2,544.2
Credit Risk Fund                               3,000.0   5,300.0   5,830.0   6,413.0   7,054.3
Total Financial Assets                     6,329.3  14,312.1  21,387.3  30,236.9  39,984.3
Misellaneous Assets                               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Fixed Assets                                     51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9
less: Accumulated depreciation                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net fixed assets                           51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9
TOTAL ASSETS                               6,381.2  14,364.0  21,439.2  30,288.8  40,036.2
IUABHL1TES
Current Liabilities
Accrued interest expense                        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
(assumes all due 31 Dec)
Otheraccrualsandpayables                        3.4       4.1       5.1       5.8       6.1
(15 days staff costs & other op exp)
Current portion of project loan                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
(assumed paid on 31 Dec)
Total CurretLiabilities                       3.4       4.1       5.1       5.8       6.1
Long Term Liabilities
Project loan from GOSL                       2,951.9   8,096.2  14,261.9  22,197.3  31,144.2
Capitalized interest @3%, 5 yrs grace          44.3      165.7    335.4     546.9    800.1
less: Current portion (paid 31 Dec)             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Outstanding project ioan balance            2,996.2   8,261.9  14,597.3  22,744.2  31,944.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         2,999.6   8,266.0  14,602.3  22,750.0  31,950.4
NET WORTH
GOSL grants                                    3,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0
Other gants                                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Retained earning                                381.6   1,098.0   1,836.9   2,538.8   3,085.9
Total Net Worth                              3,381.6   6,098.0   6,836.9   7,538.8   8,085.9
TOTAL LIABILITES AND NET WORTH             6,381.2  14,364.0  21,439.2  30,288.8  40,036.2



ANNEX 4
-  63  -                                                   Page 9 of 14
Scenario 1
Table 5
SRI LANKA                                                   Page 5 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(US$ '000)
Year I       Yoar2         Year3         Year4         YearS
Pat I
Fu-di  of Foundatln Adminliatlon
Not Income from Credit Fund Operations                                158.7        264.3         233.7         120.7         (139.6)
Interest capitalized on projet loan
during 5 yer grace period                                            44.3         165.7         335.4         546.9        8C0.1
Credit Risk Ftmd interest income                                      300.0        530.0         583.0         641.3         705.4
Liquidity/sccudty ftmd intrest income                                  5.4           19.6         43.5          79.4         127.2
IDer (deer) in other acemals & payables                                3A            0.6           1.0           0.8           0.3
less: Increase (decreae) in Misc. Aetb                                 0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Increasoin60daycashrequirment                                     13.8           2.5           4.0           3.0          1.1
Staff cots                                                        22.4          24.4          33.0          35.0         36.6
Other operating expcses                                           60.2          73.0         U8.4          104.4         109.4
Investment in Credit Risk Fund                                                 300.0         530.0        583.0         641.3
Fus available (qued) after aduiln.                               415.5         580.3         541.2         663.6        705.1
_-t H
Fuig of Fixed Assets & Crdit Operations
from Outde Sourcs:
Project loan received from COSL                                     .,951.9       5, 100.0      6,000.0       7.600.0      8,400.0
Ic: Inveted in Fixed Aset                                            51.9           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Project loa proceeds
available for Crdit Fund operations                                2,900.0       5,100.0       6,000.0       7,600.0      8.400.0
OOSL gratm received                                                 3,000.0       2.00D.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
lss: Repayment of project loan to OOSL                                 0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Less Investment In Credit Risk Funkd                                3,000.0       2.000.0
Net mw  finds avaiable for lentn                                 2,900.0       5, 00.0       6,000.0       7,600.0       8,400.0
Pa tm
Fid Used in Credit Operatiwos:
Total Disbements                                                    2,900.0       7,166.3      11,382.2      16,689.0     22,017.9
less: Total Principal Pkiling due from
borowr befor Rescheduling                                      2,9C0.0       7,166.3      11,382.2      16,689.0     22,017.9
Funds used before reocebduling                                         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Principal rescheduled                                                725.0        1,791.6      2,S45.6       4,172.2       5,504.5
les: Rescheduled pdncipal falling due                                  0.0         362.5        1,258.3       2,318.6      3,508.9
Fands used aftr schedug                                              725.0        1,429.1       1,587.3       1,853.7       1,995.6
Pridcipal falling into arar                                            0.0          71.7         227.6         500.7         880.7
Actual  ds used in  et operadIons                                    725.0        1,500.7       1,814.9       2,354.3      2,876.3
Put IV
_3umasy of Sore nd Uses of Pds:
Fund available (rqed) after admnin (Pt1)                             415.5         580.3         541.2         663.6         705.1
Net ne  funds available for lending (Pt II)                         2,930.0       5,100.0       6,000.0       7,6C0.0       8,400.0
les: Actual funds ued
in credit operations (Pt I)                                       725.0       1,500.7       1,814.9       2,354.3       2,876.3
Alocaton to Uqudilty/lsouity find                                 108.8         283.3         478.4         716.7        957.1
Lon In afrrea writtn off                                               0.0          71.7         227.6         500.7         880.7
Other grsb eceivd                                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
IDCr (deer) in scemed Interest expense                                 0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Change In C"dit Fund Cash Position                                  2,481.8      3,968.0        4,475.6      5,693.2       6,152.4
(ae Credit Pund asuet n bale iheet)
Memo: Credit Risk Fund Conrbution                                   3,000.0       2,000.0          O.C           0.0           0.0
Interert Income Invesd                                              0.0         300.0         530.0         S83.0        641.3
Credit Risk Fund     Yr end                                      3,000.0      5,300.0       5,830.0       6,413.0       7,054.3
Credit Risk Fund     Yr. BDe.                                    3,000.0      3,030.0       5,300.0       5,830.0       6,413.0



ANNEX 4
- 64 -                                     Page 10 of 14
Scenario 2
Table I
SRI LANKA                                    Page 1 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Projected Financial Statements
(US$ '000)
Trust Lending Activity Summary
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Principal Disbursed to Trust clients
from IDA credit & FRG Grant (first round lending)
to Government Credit Programs                    0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
to Non-government Programs                   2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
to State Banks' Programs                         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total first round disbursements                 2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Subsequent round disbursements funded by 95 % of
previous year's principal collections of Credit Programs  2,066.3   5,109.9   8,372.4  12,185.0
Total Disbursements                      2,900.0   7,166.3  11,109.9  15,972.4  20,585.0



ANNEX 4
- 65 -                                    Page 11 of 14
Scenazio 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA                                   Page 2 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Collections Worksheet
(USS '000)
Year I    Year2    Year3    Year4    Year5
Principal from first round lending falling due  2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Total first round principal falling due        2,900.0   5,100.0   6,000.0   7,600.0   8,400.0
Total subsequent rounds' principal falling due    0.0   2,066.3   5,109.9   8,372.4  12,185.0
Total principal falling due before rescheduling  2,900.0   7,166.3  11,109.9  15,972.4  20,585.0
less: Principal rescheduled (assumed 25% falling due)    725.0   1,791.6   2,777.5   3,993.1   5,146.2
Maturities of rescheduled principal                       362.5     362.5
(assumed rescheduled over 2 years)                                  895.8      895.8
1,388.7   1,388.7
1,996.5
Rescheduled principal falling due              0.0     362.5   1,258.3   2,284.5   3,385.3
Total Principal Falling Due after rescheduling  2,175.0   5,737.2   9,590.7  14,263.8  18,824.0
less: Principal falling into arrears              0.0     358.3     777.7   1,437.5   2,058.5
(see Income Statement provision)
Total principal collections                    2,175.0   5,378.9   8,813.0  12,826.3  16,765.5
Pnncipal collections recycled into
subsequent round lending (0 95%)               2,066.3   5,109.9   8,372.4  12,185.0  15,927.3
Nonrecycled portion to liquidity/security fund   108.8    268.9     440.7     641.3     838.3
Principal collection rate before rescheduling    0.75      0.75      0.79      0.80      0.81
Prncipal collection rate after rescheduling      1.00      0.94      0.92      0.90      0.89



ANN-EX 4
- 66 -                                     Page 12 of 1
Scenario 2
Table 3
SRI LANKA                                    Page 3 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FIJND
Projected Income Statement
(US$ '000)
Year I    Year2    Year3    Year4    YearS
Interest income from Credit Fund Operations @ 7%  203.0    501.6     777.7   1,118.1   1,440.9
less: Interest expense on project loan @ 3 %
(Capitalized during 5 yr grace period)        44.3     165.7     335.4     546.9     800.1
Net interest income from credit operations       158.7     335.9     442.3     571.2      640.8
less: Provision for loans in arrears:
% of annual disbursements assumed going into arrea  0.0    5.0       7.0       9.0       10.0
Amount of provision                              0.0     358.3     777.7   1,437.5   2,058.5
Net Icome from Credit Fund Operations            158.7     (22.4)   (335.4)   (866.3)  (1,417.7)
Interest income at 10% of average balance:
Credit Risk Fund                               300.0     530.0     583.0      641.3     705.4
Liquidity/security fund                          5.4       18.9     40.9       73.0     114.9
Net Finncial Income                              464.2     526.5     288.5    (152.1)   (597.3)
Staff costs                                       22.4      24.4      33.0      35.0      36.6
Other operating expenses                          60.2      73.0      88.4      104.4     109.4
Depreciation expense @ 25%                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Nt Income (or Loss)                              381.6     429.1     167.1    (291.5)   (743.3)
GOSL grants received                           3,000.0   2,000.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other grants received                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Change in Net Worth                            3,381.6   2,429.1     167.1    (291.5)   (743.3)



ANNEX 4
- 67 -                                     Page 13 of 14
Scenario 2
Table 4
SRI LANKA                                  Page 4 of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Projected Balance Sheet
(US$ '000)
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
ASSETS
Cash (60 days' staff cost & other oper. expenditures)  13.8  16.2     20.2      23.2      24.3
Credit Fund:
Cash available for lending                   2,481.8   6,76.7  10,186.4  15,106.7  20,322.1
(balancing figure from sources & uses)
Accrued interest (assumes all due 31 Dec)        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Unrescheduled loans outstanding                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Rescheduled loans                              725.0   2,154.1   3,673.3   5,381.8   7,142.8
Gross Credit Fund                          3,206.8   8,330.8  13,859.6  20,488.5  27,464.9
less: Allowance for loans in arrears             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
(assumes provision = new arrears)
Net Credit Fund                            3,206.8   8,330.8  13,859.6  20,488.5  27,464.9
Liquidity/security fund                          108.8     377.7     818.3   1,459.7   2,297.9
Credit Risk Fund                               3,000.0   5,300.0   5,830.0   6,413.0   7,054.3
Total Financial Assets                     6,329.3  14,024.7  20,528.2  28,384.4  36,841.5
Miscellaneous Assets                               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Fixed Assets                                      51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9
less: Accumulated depreciation                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Net fixed assets                            51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9      51.9
TOTAL ASSETS                               6,381.2  14,076.6  20,580.1  28,436.3  36,893.4
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accrued interest expense                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
(assumes all due 31 Dec)
Other accruals and payables                      3.4       4.1       5.1       5.8       6.1
(15 days staff costs & other op exp)
Current portion of project loan                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
(assumed paid on 31 Dec)
Total Current Liabilities                      3.4       4.1       5.1       5.8       6.1
Long Term Liabilities
Project loan from GOSL                       2,951.9   8,096.2  14,261.9  22,197.3  31,144.2
Capitalized interest 03%, 5 yrs grace           44.3     165.7     335.4     546.9      800.1
less: Current portion (paid 31 Dec)              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Outstanding project loan balance            2,996.2   8,261.9  14,597.3  22,744.2  31,944.3
TOTAL LLABILITES                           2,999.6   8,266.0  14,602.3  22,750.0  31,950.4
NET WORTH
GOSL grants                                    3,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0   5,000.0
Other grants                                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Retained enings                                  381.6     810.6     977.8     686.3    (57.0)
Total Net Worth                              3,381.6   5,810.6   5,977.8   5,686.3   4,943.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH            6,381.2  14,076.6  20,580.1  28,436.3  36,893.4



A-MX 4
-  68  -                                                     Page 14 of 14
Scenario 2
Table S
SRI LANKA                                                     Page S of 5
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT FUND
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(US$ '000)
Year I        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year S
PAt I
Funding of Foundation AdminitraUion
Net Income from Credit Fund Opertions                                   158.7          (22.4)       (335.4)       (866.3)       (1,417.7)
Interest capitalized on project loan
during 5 year grace period                                             44.3          165.7         335.4          546.9         SOD. I
Credit Risk Fund interest income                                        300.0          530.0         583.0         641.3          705.4
LIquidity/security fund interent Income                                   5.4           18.9          40.9          73.0          114.9
itor (deor) in other acoruals & payablea                                  3.4           0.6            1.0           0.8            0.3
less: Increas (decrease) in Misc. Assets                                  0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0          00
Increase it 60 day cash requirement                                  13.8           2.5           4.0            3.0           1.1
Staff coats                                                         22.4           24.4          33.0           35.0          36.6
Other operatng expenesa                                             60.2           73.0          88.4         104.4          109.4
Investment in Credit Risk Fund                                                    300.0         530.0          583.0         641.3
Foua avilable (required) after admin.                              415.5          293.0         (30.5)        (329.8)       (583.3)
Pant H
Fundig of Fixed Asset & Creit Operatons
from Outside Souree8
Project loan received from OOSL                                        2,951.9       5,100.0       6,000.0        7,600.0       8,400.0
less: Invested in Fixed Assets                                           51.9           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Project loan proceeds
available for Credit Fund operations                                 2,900.0        5,100.0       6,000.0       7,60.0         8,400.0
GOSL grant received                                                    3,000.0       2,0C0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
les: Repayment of project loan to aOSL                                    0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Loss Investment in Credit Risk Pund                                   3,000.0        2,000.0
Net new funds available for lending                                 2,900.0       5,100.0       6,000.0        76.0          8,4W.0
Put m
Funds Used in Credit Opotions:
Tot Disbursements                                                      2,9W0.0       7,166.3      11,109.9       15,972.4      20,585.0
less: Total Principal Fallng due from
borrowera before Rescheduling                                    2,900.0        7,166.3      11,109.9      15,972.4       20,585.0
Funds used before rescheduling                                            0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Principal rescheduled                                                   725.0        1,791.6       2,7m7.5        3,993.1       5,146.2
less: Rescheduled principal falling due                                   0.0         362.5        1,258.3        2,284.5       3,385.3
Funds used after rescheduling                                           725.0        1,429.1       1,519.2        1,708.6       1,761.0
Principal falling into arrears                                            0.0         358.3          777.7        1,437.5       2,058.5
Actua fund used Incredit operatio                                       725.0        1,787.4       2,296.9        3,146.1       3,819.5
Part IV
Summaty of Soue and Usea of Punda:
Funds available(required) after admin (Pt 1)                            415.5         293.0          (30.5)       (329.8)       (58s53)
Net new funds available for lending (Pt I)                            2,900.0        5,100.0       6,000.0        7,600.0       8,400.0
les: Actual funds used
Inredit operations (Pt I)                                           725.0        1,787.4        2,296.9       3,146.1       3,819.5
Allocation to Dquidity/security fund                                 108.8         268.9         440.7          641.3         838.3
Lons in arreara written off                                               0.0         358.3          777.7        1,437.5       2,058.5
Other grants reeeived                                                     0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Iner (doer) in acerued interest expene                                    0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Change in Credit Fund Cash Position                                    2,481.8       3,695.0       4,009.7        4,920.3       5,215.4
(se Credit Fund aetu on balance sheet)
Memo: Credit Rik Psud C      _stslbutions                              3,000.0       2,000.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
Interest Income Invested                                              0.0          300.0         530.0          583.0         641.3
Credit Risk Fund Balanee Yr end                                    3,0D0.0       5,3W.0         5,830.0       6,413.0       7,054.3
Credit Risk Fund Baane Yr. Beg.                                    3,000.0       3,000.0        5,300.0       5,830.0        6,413.0



- 69 -
Annex 5
Page I of 5
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Janasaviya Trust Fund
1.        The Trust is a newly created organization designed to provide
assistance in building the income generation capabilities of the poor. It
will operate throughout the country in conjunction with a number of national,
regional and local partner organizations. Its tasks are complex, with little
experience currently available in Sri Lanka on the types of credit related
poverty alleviation programs that it will be carrying out. The Trust will
need to develop the institutional capacity of the partner organizations
through which it will be working, and in addition, will be managing a labor
intensive rural works component and a nutrition component. As such, its
technical assistance needs are strong.
2.        The program of assistance envisages a three-pronged approach:
(a) Technical Assistance during the start-up phase, until the IDA
credit is effective. This assistance, which is currently funded by
UNDP, was considered critical, as it would establish the basic
management systems under which the Trust will operate (Interim
Phase).
(b) Long term technical assistance subsequent to the IDA credit
becoming effective, which would be provided at the level of the
Board of Trustees and the Managing Director. Three people are
envisaged for a total of five person years. One consultant would
cover the credit and micro-enterprise development activities of the
poor, and the second the human resource and partner development
support supplied by the Trust. A third consultant, assigned for a
shorter period, would assist the Trust in establishing its
monitoring and evaluation systems that were concerned with ensuring
the effectiveness of its credit and human resource development
activities (Long-Term Advisors).
(c) Short term assistance designed to overcome particular issues and
constraints as they arise during implementation (Short-Term
consulting).
3.        In developing the proposed program, two overriding principles were
adopted:
(a) Wherever possible, long-term foreign assistance would be minimized.
Local consultants should be sought where competent expertise is
available.



- 70 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
(b) The approach adopted in selecting consultants would be on a
comparative basis after a relatively wide ranging search for the
best consulting capability to meet the particular requirements of
the Trust. The availability of expertise in the fields of activity
covered by the Trust is limited, and the Trust would need to ensure
that they select from firms and individuals that have experience in
poverty alleviation projects as well as the senlor level skills and
ability to work with Trust staff.
Interim Phase Assistance
4.        The Trust is currently filling staff positions and has recently
commenced operations. Assistance was needed to help with the start up and be
available until the IDA credit is operational. These short term arrangements
are being handled with additional resources available from UNDP under a
revision of the UNDP Project SRL/89/013. The estimated cost of this phase of
the assistance is $400,000.  The precise tasks in the short term assistance
depends on the extent to which Trust needs are met by the work recently
completed by PACT consultants on the preparation of implementation manuals,
but primarily cover assistance with implementing the procedures outlined in
the manuals, and in helping the Trust establish operations.
5.        The interim assistance also includes revision of those manuals as
experience is gained, and as additional staff are recruited and are able to
provide input into the operating procedures of the Trust. Persons selected
for this interim assistance were chosen from a short list of skilled
consultants, and were approved by the Trust's Board in consultation with UNDP
and IDA. Areas of assistance are:
(a) provision of assistance to the Rural Works Division and the
Promotion and Field Support Division in the selection.
implementation and control of labor intensive rural works (1
person, 6 months);
(b) assistance to the Credit Division in establishing procedures for
the operation of the Trust's lending systems to the intermediary
organizations and, in turn, their credit operations with the poor
(1 person, 6 months);
(c) assistance in human resource development and partner development
activities with a particular emphasis on helping the Trust
establish its training, NGO development and partner networking
operations (1 person, 6 months); and
(d) assistance with implementing the finance, accounting and data
processing activities of the Trust (1 person, 6 months);
6.        The leader of the above team is responsible to the Trust for the
work of all consultants in the team.



-71 -                        Annex S
Page 3 of 5
7.        The consultants providing the interim assistance are also assisting
Trust and UNDP in developing the Terms of Reference for the long term
technical assistance, including help in identifying indLviduals, firms oL
organizations that could be approached.
Long Term Advlsers
8.        A short list of management consultants and NGOs wLth appropriate
experience in poverty alleviation projects would be asked to prepare proposals
for the provision of the technical assistance requirements of the Trust (to
become effective when IDA credit is operational). This technLcal assistance
comprisess
(a) a senior executive of the selected consulting organization as a top
level senior consultant resident in Sri Lanka, to provide advice
and assistance to the Board and to the Managing Director on a
regular basis throughout the first two years of the project life.
This consultant would have the experience and stature to relate at
the Board level, The skill of this consultant would be ln Trust
activities in credit and micro-enterprise development with the
poor;
(b) a long term advisor skilled in human resource development and
training with beneficiaries and organizations that manage rural
credit operations for the poor. He or she will be resident in Sri
Lanka and located in the Trust for the first two years of project
operation. If this person has the experience and skills to provide
assistance at the Board Level, then he or she would be the senior
adviser; and
Cc) a consultant skilled in monitoring and evaluation systems, and to
be located in the Trust for a period of one year. This
consultant's task will to be to help establish the monitorlng and
evaluation systems that the Trust must use to maximize its
effectiveness. The consultant would also undertake the evaluations
scheduled for the first year of operations, and ensure that the
base line studies needed for the mid-term (and ex-post) evaluations
are carried out effectively.
9.        Included in the tasks of the long-term consultants would be steps
to involve and strengthen local consultants in all aspects of Trust
Operations. This task would be accomplished by providing all interested local
consultants with information on the Trust's requirements, and by ensuring that
local consultants were considered in the selection of short term advisors. To
the extent feasible, the long term advisors would also assist foreign
consultants identify local expertise which could be used on assignments.
10.       The advisers would help manage the provision of short-term
consulting assistance. Their Temsa of Reference would include the requirement
to outline the process of identific&tion of consulting assignments and



- 72 -                        Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
selection of consultants over the period of IDA funded Trust operations. The
selection of short-term consultants would be made by the Trust.
Short-Term Consultina
11.       Specific technical assistance needs in different areas, identified
with the help of the above two advisors, would be approved by the Trust's
Board and IDA and selected from a short list of qualified consultants for the
best assistance possible. No consulting project would be staffed on a sole
source basis unless the consultant had demonstrated competence on a previous
Trust assignment.
12.       Persons or firms selected "hould be approved by the Trust in
consultation with IDA. They would be selected on the basis of a defined Terms
of Reference and schedule, and would not be contracted through the
organization or individual supplying the long-term senior-level advisors. Sri
Lankan consultants and NGOs, or a consortium thereof, would supply assistance
in those areas where qualifications and experience were appiopriate.
13.       Areas of short-term assistance likely to be needed by the Trust and
chosen on the basis of international and domestic search ares
(a) further extending the interim assistance provided by the interim
consultants, in devising and expanding operating procedures, and
assisting in their implementation;
(b) strengthening evaluation and policy formulation practices;
(c) undertaking the impact studies required for the mid-term
evaluation;
(d) strengthening finance, accounting and data processing procedures;
and
(e) developing NGO and partner organization's capabilities through:
(i) consultations, seminars and workshops;
(ii) arranging study visits by Trust and P0 staff to institutions in
the region which are skilled in credit and micro-enterprise
development activities with the poor; and
(iii) developing of networking capabilities among POs.
Nutrition Component
14.       Technical Assistance requirements for the nutrition component will
be entirely short-term, anticipated at three person-months of foreign
consultancies and 15 months local. The three months of foreign consultancies
will be required in (a) intervention design, (b) assistance in monitoring and



- 73 --                    Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
evaluation and (c) provision of expertise in food technology as it relates to
diet supplementation.
15.       The local consultancies will be required to provide assistance in
(a) community mobilization, (b)impact evaluation and (c) research studies on
effectiveness of alternative operational approaches.
Cost of Technical Assistance for the Trust
16.       The estimated cost of the above technical assistance is
approximately $2.5 million, and will be provided by UNDP.
Assistance for the Poverty and Employment Policy Unit
17.       Technical requirements of this unit are high, due primarily to the
shortage of both staff and skills in these areas in the GOSL. It is
anticipated that one long-term adviser will be required for a period of two
years, supported by 36 person-months of shorter-term advisors, and 16 months
of local research and consultancies. The principal skills of the advisors
would be int
(a) evaluation of the employment impact of micro and macro economic
policy in the country, including the impact of particular
employment generation and poverty alleviation projects;
(b) survey research and statistical analysis, as it relates to
household income surveys; and
.c) small enterprise development, particularly in regard to the impact
of government policy on employment and growth.
18.       The long-term advisor, at the outset of the project, would develop
a medium-term plan of the analyses and development activities required for the
approval of HPPI and IDA.
19.       The cost of technical assistance for this component of the project
is estimated at $900,000.



- 74 -                           ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECI
EMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY POLICY UNIT
Cost Eistimates
US$ '000
A. Foreign Advisers
Long-term Consuiltants                       400
Short-term Consultants                       800
Sub-total        1,200
B. Local Cnnsultants                             130
C. Computers (PC)                                 30
D. Data Processing                                40
Total        1400



Annex 7
Page 1 of 12
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
The Janasaviya Trust Fund
Organization Structure and Responsibilities
Considerations in the Organizational Design of the Trust
1.        Increasing the income generating capacity of the poor through self-
employment and micro-enterprise development requires a number of coordinated
services to be provided, such as credit, marketing, technical skills
development, etc. Most projects in Sri Lanka that assist the poor are single
service projects which lack the coordination necessary to achieve the desired
results.
2.        The establiahment of a separate organization for implementation of
the Poverty Alleviation Project, outside the regular banking system has,
therefore, a number of distinct advantages. The major advantage is that a
separate organization enables concentration to be placed on those factors that
ensure that credit operations with the poor are successful - in the
mobilization, training and support that needs to be provided to the poor, both
directly and through the intermediary organizations that will be partners with
the Trust. This support is not available through the banks or even through
many intermediary organizations that provide credit. In the design outlined
balow, a separate unit in the Trust has been charged with the task of
developing the resources of the poor and of the organizations that assist
them.
3.        A second advantage is that concentration can be placed on the
evaluation of those factors that help the poor use their credit effectively.
Considerable experience has been gained in supplying credit to the poor, but
much is still to be learned about the more effective ways of mobilization,
group formation, establishing savings schemes, training for micro-enterprises,
etc. The Trust can ensure that these lessons are learned, %nd that they are
incorporated in its own operations and those of its partnero.
4.        The design and operational procedures of the Trust must ensure,
however, that these advantages are realized.
5.        One other factor that impinges on the design of the organization is
the need to promote the Trust. In the structure outlined in the following
paragraphs, a separate promotional activity has been established that will
operate in the rural areas of Sri Lanka and which will promote and support all
major areas of Trust operaLlons - credit, rural works, human resource
development and nutrition.



- 76 --                       Annex 7
Page 2 of 12
6.        An additional benefit that will emerge is that the Trust will tend
to operate both credit and rural works in the same geographical areas.
Although the two facilities can operate separately, contiguous operations will
add synergy in their impact on the poor (through the multiple contacts by and
with partner organizations); they will also produce savings in the follow-up
and monitoring operations of the Trust.
Organization Structure
7.        An initial organization structure for the Trust, together with
supporting structures for each of the Divisions of the Trust, is shown in the
attached charts.
8.        This structure was developed in conjunction with the Management
Committee of the Board of Trustees and is being used in the recruitment of the
staff of the Trust. It will be reviewed once the Trust is in full operation
and appropriate changes made in the light of experience gained.
9.        The function of each of the divisions is listed on these charts.
These functions have been further elaborated in the manuals prepared by
Private Agencies Collaborating Together (PACT) consultants.
10.       The organizational design envisages a lean but highly professional
staff, using a maximum of modern office technology. The approach to achieving
this structure is by employment of a high percentage (perhaps more than 50Z)
of young, professionally trained staff drawn from non-governmental
ojLganizations and the private sector. A high degree of automation of the
Trust's information and decision support systems will strengthen the Trust's
capabilities.
11.       In order to strengthen staff performance, the Trust would minimize
the use of government practices and procedures. PACT consultants have
assisted the Trust in developing recruitment, promotion, remuneration and
rersonal policies that would reflect effective work performance and encourage
ir.Lievements of staff.
Managing Director
12.       The Managing Director possesses the same level of achievements and
accomplishments as the Board members, and is responsible for the successful
operation of the Trust. As such he has been elected as a member of the Board.
13.       The Managing Director should also be delegated a limited authority
from the Board to approve loan and grant applications.
Management Committee
14.       The Management Committee is a small executive committee of the
Board of Trustees. It could be delegated some of the powers of the Board as
decided by the Board from time to time. The Managing Director would be a



- 77 -                        An- 
Annes 7
Page 3 of 12
member of the Committee.
15.       The Board of Trustees includes representation from government and
non-government sectors, from women, and NGOs. It would be desirable,
therefore, that any committee of the Board reflect the same interests as the
Board.
NGO Advisory Committee
16.       One of the major objectives of the Trust is to work through
national and local NGOs in delivering services to the rural poor; in the
process it would strengthen the capabilities of Sri Lankan NGOs in credit and
micro-enterprise development and related services.
17.       In order to ensure that its actions are acceptable to the NGO
community and reflect its needs, as well as ensure that the voice of the rural
poor is maintained in Trust policy considerations, an NGO Advisory Committee
to the Board has been established. A search committee of the Board has
identified the possible members of the Committee, the Chairman of which will
be elected from among the members annually.
18.       This Committee should be as strong as possible.  It would review
all Trust grants or loans to NGOs. It would provide suggestions to the Board
on the Trust's relationships and policies with NGOs and propose steps that
might be taken to strengthen these relations. The NGO Committee would also
submit policy papers on beneficiary development and related issues for the
Board's consideration.
19.       The Committee should play a major role on the project in broadening
the scope of assistance to women, and should allocate time for discussion on
ways and means to strengthen partner organizations catering to womens'
concerns. It should make this information available to the Board, and make
specific recommendations on those aspects of Trust activities that are related
to women.
MPPI Liaison
20.       The Trust will frequently need to interact with units of the
central government. The most common will be in developing rural works
projects with the line ministries and with the Integrated Rural Development
Program. Other joint activities will lie in the definition and selection of
food stamp and Janisaviya program beneficiaries, who will also be the
beneficiaries of the Trust's services. These activities are the
responsibility of, or coordinated by, the Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation. A formal linking of the Trust with the Ministry is a
necessary step in ensuring sound coordination, and in obtaining the support of
the Government for Trust activities.



-78 -                         Annex 7
Page 4 of 12
Executive Committee of the Trust's Senior Staff
21.       The Directors of each of the Divisions of the Trust would form this
committee, chaired by the Managing Director. Considerable coordination and
interaction is required among the Divisions of the Trust, primarily as each is
working to the same target group - the poor, often through complementary and
interrelated mechanisms. Tha Trust will not be effective if it becomes
compartmentalized - overlap and the assumption of one division's tasks by
other divisions (an example ifj a field trip undertaking tasks for several
divisions) is necessary.
22.       One approach to ensuring this coordination, apart from the building
of a culture that ensures a cross-flow of communication, is through the estab-
lishment of an executive committee, covering both policy issues and opera-
tional matters on all Trust activities.
Audit
23.       This office would be responsible for the internal auditing of the
Trust's finar.cial operations and for ensuring that the audits of its partner
organizations are carried out effectively and to the satisfaction of the
Trust.
Orientation of Trust Staff
24.       In addition to considera,le professional competence, Trust staff
will need a particular orientation and motivation. A sound program of
recruiting high level professional staff, therefore, would need to be
supported by an effective technicai assistance and training plan.
25.       Staff woul. need to understand the constraints faced by the poor,
to understand NGOs that help them, and the effectiveness of the mechanisms
that are used. Orientation programs around these issues would not only ensure
that Trust staff are working to the same objectives, but would help the Trust
take advantage of its unique ability to develop productive income generating
activities for the poor. These programJ would outline much of the same
information used in training change agents and field staff that work with the
poor.
Promotion and Field Operations of the Trust
26.       The Trust is a new organization, one that will be working in new
fields of endeavor with partners who are only partly experienced in the skills
that are needed by the Trust. In the case of those NGOs that will be partners
of the Trust, the Trust is asking that they borrow on a larger scale than
their current practice in order to provide the finance that can be on-lent to
the poor. The previous practice of most NGOs has been to use grants to
finance small scale credit programs.



'79-                       Annex 7
Page 5 of 12
27.       These factors will create obstacles to the whole-hearted
endorsement of Trust activities, especially by NGOs. The approach to be used
to overcome these obstacles is the creation of a promotional activity in the
Trust, supported by a regular contact with potential and actual clients.
28.       The Promotion and Field Support Division has been designed to
supply this capability to the Trust. Although operating responsibility for
credit, rural works and human resource development will be with each of these
operating divisions of the Trust, the staff of the Promotion and Field Support
Divisioin can supply the contacts and promotional activities in the field that
the Trust will need, and through this support, encourage greater and more
effective use of Trust resources.
29.       Division staff will need to spend considerable time in the rural
areas of Sri Lanka in promoting, developing and supporting Trust operations,
both directly with beneficiary groups and with partner organizations.
Organized on geographical basis, they would provide the initial thrust to
Trust operations in a new area. They would seek out potential partners in
that area, undertake the responsibility for explaining and promoting all areas
of Trust operations. Through these partners, they would seek to identify
initiatives for Trust activities and to provide the partner with assistance in
bringing them to fruition.
30.       During implementation, they would assist the partners in their
dealings with the Trust, and assess progress on behalf of the operating
divisions. They would help build linkages between parts of the Trust's
operations, and between different partner organizations, and to provide advice
and support where needed.



- so -                                                        Annex7
Page 6 of 12
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
JANASAVIYA TRUST FUND
Organizatina Stcte
PATRON
H.EA RHE PFtE81DE
MtANAGiEMENT                             OFNO   WSF
COMMnliTEE                          TRUSTEE8 OS^TE
MAPPI LLW80N                                 NAl                              EXECLITIVE
HUMAN RE8URE |                PRMOMtTO                                            FINANCE 
CPEOIT  l~~~         lNSITUTIONAL               &                      W.'RAL WOM                 &                      NU"r
l   DEIIELOPIIENT             FURD SUIPPOR                                      AMNliNSTRAI
_A  LR        _m -HUMAN RESOURCE DV. 2)    PROMOTION OF TRWT (1)    _APPRAISAL &                       FINANCE & ACCOUNTS ()    _NUTIITIONMCOH
A FOLLOW-UP (2)         - Training                                             STANDAD8 (I)                                       OPER,TION8 2)
L_FIELD 8UPPORT(4)                                   tlDMNISTRATION (30)
OPERATIONS &         PARTNER OEVELOPMENT (3)         - IdentIicatIon of       MONrTORN4 &             - Office Managem nt      _MONITORING &
MONT<ORINN (2)          - Apprabal                     Poram & Problebm        SUPPORT ()              - Personnel                EVALUATION(1)
- Speolalt Assbtanoo           In Credit, Rural orks,                          - 
(Credif Operatn. Socal       Parner DeOvlopment &                            - Drivero                 - Identifcton
MobIzatn, EnterprIeo         snefblo4ivy Assstan                            - Janhoro,of                 of NBC. to delver
Dwelopment, Marketing,    - Field MonItorIng and                                                         NutrIIon Sefv8
Technology for BenefcarIes)  AssRtanew                                  _ATA PROCESN
- Including Managemnt     - TrsnIig & Funding
EVALUATION & PLANNING (3)                                                          Inbormon System            Na  to supply
- Program Evaluation & PlannIng                                                                             Meral and Chid
- Mbro Ente rprIso &8nt- SLeLf(on tiner                                                                     Nuffdon 8ves
Emplyment                                                                                                and EduatIon
- Group Formation & Motivation
- RuralWrks Impat                                                                                        - LegwIth
- Women In Development                                                                                       overnmenton
- Unemployed Youth                                                                                          nutdton Inputs
- Dissermnntlon of Findings
|   PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS   l
OTHER      F   AA DMIVOO% UNK AGENCIES, NBC.
APPROXIMATE NUMEER OF STAFF
EndotFlr tYear     3                         e                          6                       6                        2               2   -   t4
* Manegng Dlr  Or. Audit (1) -   8U
Third Year         6                                                    e                       7                       ad               4    -   U
(As above)                                                                                                         *Managln Director + Audh () *   72



- 81-                        Annex 7
Page 7 of 12
|CREDIT
APPRAISAL &      (2)                             OPERATIONS        (2)
FIOLLOW-UP                                       MONITORING
Responsible for:
1.  Establishing & updating                 1.  Evaluating activities of
criteria for approval of Trust              Partner Organizations.
Credit Projects.
2. Ensuring that Human Resource            2.  Establishing and keeping
development activities have                current systems for
taken place before credit is               coordinating the approval,
disbursed.                                 disbursement and monitoring of
credit flows.
3.  Appraisal and recommending on          3.  Monitoring flow of funds.
proposed credit projects.
4.  Follow-up on approved loans.           4.  Liaising with HRID Division on
support needed for
strengthening partner
organizations.
5.  Supporting other Trust                 5.  Liaising with evaluation
divisions in widening &                    section of HRID Division on
strengthening NGO and                      monitoring success and
grassroots credit schemes.                  failures in credit schemes.
The tasks of staff in this Division are flerfble and interchangeable, without
a strong need to be organized in two separate sections.



-82 -                         Annex 7
Page 8 of 12
HMAN RESOURCES &                      igi8-f1
|INSTUTIONAL DEVLOPNMEN
HUMAN RESOURCE    (2)           PA&RTNER       (3)      EVALUATION    (3)
DEVELOPMENT                   DEVELOPMENT               PLANNING
ResRonsible for:
1. Assessing capabilities    1. Managing the Human            1.  Assessment of
of training                    Resource Development           effectiveness of
institutions, and              Fund (HRDF).                   Trust and PO
recommending to                                               practices in:  (a)
Partner Organizations.                                        Group Organization
and motivation; (b)
Micro-Enterprise
Development; (c)
Involvement of
Women; (d) Impact of
rural works; (e)
Employment of Youth;
and (f) Others as
needed.
2.  Ensuring Trust             2.  Assessing needs of         2.  Dissemination of
practices and                  partner organizations.         findings to Trust,
evaluation findings                                           partner
are incorporated in                                           organizations and
curricula of external                                         Government.
training institutes.
3. Assisting training          3. Provision of                3.  Incorporation of
institutions to                consulting assistance          'best' practices
develop appropriate            to POs or beneficiary          into Trust policies
curricula.                     groups.                        and plans.
4.  Advising partner           4.  Assisting in workshops    4.  Formulation of
organizations on               and conferences of             medium-term
suitable training              partner organizations.         strategic plan.
programs for self-
development or
beneficiary training.
5.  Arranging and              5.  Ensuring linkages of
coordinating regional          proposed HRDF
training activities            expenditures with use
for partner                    of credit fund.
organizations or
beneficiaries.
6.  Providing Trust staff      6.  Monitoring the use of
training programs on           the HRDF and
Trust policies (in             supporting evaluation
conjunction with other         section in impact
divisions).                    assessment studies.



83-                         Annex 7
Pave 9 of 12
PROMOTION &
FIELD SUPPORT
|PROMOTION    (1)                             |  FIELD SUPPORT        (2)
Be1RonsibJe_f2X:
1.  Preparation of Trust                     1.  Promotion of Trust activities
promotional, informational and               in the field.
educational materials.
2.  Presentation of Trust                    2.  Identification of potential
operations at regional and                   partner programs and potential
national seminars and                        Trust projects.
workshops.
3.  Providing information and                3.  Ensuring initial compliance
promotional materials for                    with Trust criteria and
partner organizations.                       assistance in documenting
applications.
4.  Providing promotional support            4.  Liaising with POs on behalf of
for Trust's staff in field                   Trust's Credit, Rural Works
activities, as requested.                    and HRID Divisions, when
requested.
5. Field monitoring and support
of projects during
implementation, as requested.
6. Providing special support to
grassroots organizations,
women and unemployed youth.



- 84 -                       Annex_7
Page 10 of 12
||RURAL WORK8S |
APPRAISAL &      (3)                              MONITORING &       (2)
STANDARDS                                         FIELD SUPPORT
Responsible for:
1.  Establishing and updating               1.  Provision of assistance to POs
Division's social and economic              in the field in identifying
criteria for funding rural                  and implementing projects that
works.                                      meet criteria.
2.  Identification and appraLsal            2.  Provision of consulting
of projects that meet                       assistance as needed.
criteria.
3. Establishing medium-term rural           3. Monitoring and providing
works program.                              support to implementing POs.
4.  Establishing and implementing           4.  Provision of field experience
technical standards for Trust-              and input to updating of
financed projects.                          social, economic and technical
criteria.
5.  Establishing and implementing           5.  Identifying training and other
productivity and costing                    support needs for implementing
standards for Trust projects.               POs.
6.  Identifying and implementing
methods and c:riteria for
developing rural works
activities managed by
beneficiary.
The tasks of staff in this division are flexible and interchangeable, without
a strong need to be organized in two separate sections.



-85 -                         Annex 7
Page 11 of 12
FINANCE 
ADMINISTRA,TION
FINANCE &    (5)              DATA         (2)             OFFICE          (30)
ACCOUNTS                   PROCESSING                   ADMINISTRATION
Responsible for:
1.  Payment of authorized      1.  Designing and               1.  Personnel
invoices & accounts.           implementing                   Management.
management information
systems for Trust.
2.  Disbursing loan and        2.  Providing data              2.  Administration, &
grant funds against            processing support to           secretarial and
approval.                      operating divisions.            typing staff.
3.  Collecting and                                             3.  Drivers.
monitoring repayments
on credit fund.
4.  Notifying relevant                                         4.  Janitors, etc.
Trust divisions of
defaults.
5. Rescheduling loans as
authorized.
6. Preparing
documentation as
requested for IDA.
7. Investing Trust funds.
8. Payment of staff
salaries and
allowances.
9. Preparing forecast of
Trusts' financial
requirements.
10. Preparing other
financial data as
requested.



-36 -                          Annex 7
Page 12 of 12
|NUTRITION
MONITORING &      (1)                              NUTRITION           (2)
EVALUATION                                         MCH OPERATIONS
Resoonsible for:
1.  Establishing baseline surveys            1.  Identifying NGOs through which
in proposed target divisions.                Trust can operate in selected
AGA divisions.
2.  Arranging data collection and            2.  Establishing criteria for
analysis.                                    Trust funding of NGOs for
delivery of nutrition support.
3. Assessing relevant information            3.  Selecting and 2provals of
on nutrition from other                      NGOs to provide. volunteer
sources.                                     services in mother and child
education and supplementary
child weighing,   and feeding.
4. Proposing changes in nutritic.n           4.  Providing training and other
program.                                     support to selected NGOs.
5.  With director, liaise with
government on supply of
Triposha and other services.



- 87 -                  Annes 8
Page I of 3
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
The Janasaviya Trust Fund
Medium-Term Implementation Plan
1.          The medium-term work plan for the project is embodied in the
establishment of each of the four funds -- Credit, Rural Works, Human Resource
Development, and Nutrition and in the setting up of the activities of the
training, evaluation and promotional unlts within the Trust. These activities
are described in the body of the Staff Appraisal Report. They will be initiated
as quickly as staff recruitment allows and will continue until completion of the
project.   The only change will be those designed to correct the problems
identified during implementation.
2.          The following three-year work schedule for the Trust provides a
detailed plan for the start-up of each of the Funds, and for related Trust
activities. The schedule also emphasizes the establishment of base line surveys
and the regular completion of impact evaluations, designed to ensute that the
project is continually assessing performance, and th,4. the Trust adjusts its
operational procedures when these evaluations indicate that changed approaches
are necessary.



- 88 -                          Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
_~~~~~~ ~             3
li                      JANISAVIYA TRUST - NEDIUM TERM PLAN H
II                                   1991             1992         1993
11-                      .. .                                  
1I                         J F M A M J J A S O  N D Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q411
11 START-UP ACTIVITIES                                                    It
11 Recruit Staff                                                           i
11 Design Promotionl Seminar  _
11 Develop Trust Pamphlets    _
11 1
1i Identify Initial AGA Dive _                                             II
11 Identify Eligible PO   _                                               II
11 Search for Truot Projects   _
11 Project Launch Workshop          _
11                                                                         11
11 TRAINING
11 Identify Training Inst'ns _
11 Assess Training Capacity  -o
11 Develop new Trg. Courses   _I
11 Begin PO Staff Training    *,
11 Begin Beneficiary Trg      *I
11                        :1
1 RURAL VORKS 
11 Finalize Operat'g Systems _                                             I
|| Identify First AGA Div'ns  -
11 Solicit Projects            - -
|| Approve First Project        -
11 Solicit Projects for 1992         *
PARTNER DEVELOPMENT
Finalize Grant Criteria   _
Identify Potent'l Outlets  _
II Develop Improvement Plans      _
fl Process First HRDF Grant       _
II CREDIT
|| Finalize Credit Procedurs -
Identify Eligible Outlets  -
FI Form Initial Groups       *I
|| Process First Applic'ns        *u
11SVALUATION & PLANIG
1 Establish Base Line Survy
11 in Selected Divisions           _ 
11Mid-Term Impact Evaluat'n                                           _
|| Assessment of Viability
11 of Micro-enterprizes       _              m      m    _              - *n
11                                                                         1
II                                                u__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I



89 -                    Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
JANISAVIYA TRUST - MEDIUH TERM PLAN
(Continued)                          U
Hl                                  1991             1992        1993   U
II                        J F M A M J J A S O N D Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q41
IEVALU&TION (Coat' d)H
11 
11 Evaluation of Beneficiary
11 Organization Practiris               _                m     - _  _
|| Evaluation of Trust                                                   U
11 supported Training               _               -            _       f
|| Evaluation of Rural Works               _m                         - _
|| Establsh Medium Term Plan          _                                  U
11 Annual Pian Update                        _            _           - U
11 1
IIMUTRITION COMPONENT                                                    U
11 
11 Appoint Staff             _                                           U
11 Familiarization Workshops     _
11 Advisory Group Feedback        -
II Establish Division Plans      _  *
11 Decide Volunteer Paymnts        _
1l Invite NGO Proposals                   -                              II
11 Select Training Institute               _                             U
1l Select First Year NGOs                                                U
11 Start NGO Training                         - _
111U
IjTRUST iDMINISTRATION
11                                                                       U
fl Establish Salary Strcture
1 & Personnel Mgmt System   -
11                                                                       11
11 Establish Assets Register  -                                          I
11                                                                       U
11 Purchase Vehicles        -                                            l
11                                                                       U
11 Purchase Office Equipment  -                               _          H
u                                                                        a
II Establish Financial Mgmt  _                                           U
11     Systems                                                           U
11                                                                       U
11 Design Data Processing
11        Systems                                                        U
11U
|| ManagemenL Information
11  System Operational               _
I  _ ____                  ___             _U__                __
Hl                                               __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 90 -                   Annex 9
Page 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Financial Simulation of a Partner OrganLzation
1.        The financial health and the integrity of the Partner Organizations
(POs) are critical to continued operation of the Credit Fund. In order to
assess the risk to the Fund and establish criteria for monitoring the
financial health of the PO, a financial simulation of a hypothetical PO is
undertaken. The scenarios tested using a computer model attempt to evaluate
varying operating conditions on the finances of a PO.
2.        Three factors affect the financial viability of a lending
institutions the interest spread; the operating costs and the collection
performance. In the model tested the interest spread and the operating cost
are treated as constants. The collection ratio is assumed a variable, and the
objective is to evaluate the effect different collection ratios would have on
the overall financial performance.
Principal Assumptions
3.        The principal assumptions used in the model, which are also
consistent with the terms and conditions for lending, are summarized below:
(a) Interest Rates The PO's borrowing rate would be 7Z. The
onlending rate is assumed at 1? above the average commercial bank
lending rate. Based on the current average rate of 18.5Z a lending
rate of 19.5Z is assumed. For loans rescheduled, a penalty
interest rate of 22Z is assumed.
(b) Savings Scheme. All beneficiaries of the project are expected to
join a saving scheme before receiving loans. The savings required
would be a modest some weekly, and interest on savings is payable
at 1Z above the commercial bank savings deposit rate. The
beneficiaries would be allowed to withdraw their savings and
accrued interest only on leaving the PO.
(c) Emergency Fund. POs are expected to withhold 5Z of all loans
approved to accumulate an emergency fund to safeguard against loan
losses. The amounts credited to this fund are non-returnable.
(d) Investments. The savings mobilized and the emergency funds would
be invested in Government securities. The current yield on one-
year Treasury Bill is 15Z which is used to calculate the investment
income.



- 91 -                  Annex 9
Page 2 of 7
(e) Rescheduling. PO will reschedule uncollected loans in certain
circumstances over a two year period. For simplicity the model
assumes that all uncollected loans are rescheduled over two years.
Any rescheduled loans falling into arrear should be written off the
books, although collection action may continue to recover them.
POs rescheduling automatically reschedules an equivalent amount due
to the Trust's Credit Fund.
(f) ODerating Cost. Operating costs are assumed to be high, 12S of
lending, at the beginning.  As the lending volume increases, the
operating costs would decline and reach a steady state of 92 of
lending volume.
Base Case Scenario
4.        The above assumptions were used to simulate a number of scenarios
using different collection rates for a PO with an initial borrowing of   Rs 1
million. Based on these simulations, the minimum collection rate to remain
financially viable was derived at 902 ot lending before rescheduling. Since
the rescheduled loans are of a poor quality, the collection of these were
assumed at 502. This would give an overall collection ratio after
rescheduling of 95Z which is determined by the 902 collection of initial
lending and 5O0 of 102 rescheduled.
5.        Under this scenario, the financial position of the PO will continue
to grow stronger. At the end of the five year period, the total
beneficiaries' own funds, which is defined as savings deposits, balance in the
emergency fund and accumulated profits, would amount Rs 714,000 or
approximately 30X of the loan portfolio in the year 5. The balance in the
emergency fund which is non-returnable to the beneficiaries would amount to Rs
337,000 or 142 of the loan portfolio. This latter fund would provide an
adequate financial cushion in a bad year when loan collections could fall
significantly below normal levels following an event such as a natural
disaster.
6.        The savings deposits and the emergency fund would be invested in
Treasury Bills yielding 152 incouie per annum. This is a critical assumption
for the viability of the PO. The interest spread of 12X is not sufficient to
fully cover the operating costs and loan losses. The PO is able to break even
in the early years and earn a small profit later principally due to the
investment income assumed under this scenario. Therefore, in addition to
withholding 52 of the loan amount, PO's ability to remain financially viable
will critically depend upon its ability to mobilize savings. The savings
deposits and the emergency fund not only make the PO viable but also have the
added benefit of making the beneficiaries more committed to the success of the
PO.



-92 -                    Annex 9
Page 3 of 7
Alternative Scenarios
7.        Alternative scenarios, using collection ratios below 90? as
summarized below:
Net Cash Flows Sin Rs 000)
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Cumulative
90? Collection Ratio   5.00      4.53    4.05    33.71   53.37    100.66
85Z                     5.00    -8.02  -25.32    -3.69   10.56    -21.47
752                     5.00   -33.11  -85.43   -81.27   -88.37  -283.18
8.        The above Table clearly shows that the 902 collection ratio is a
break-even position and should be strictly enforced as a condition of
continued access to credit. The improvement of the cashilow position in the
years 4 and 5 under first two scenarios occurs principally due to the
reduction of operating cost to 92 of lending assumed and the growth in the
investment income. Although a reduction in the operating costs is within the
control of the P0, the amount of savings mobilization and the investment
income are influenced by external factors. Therefore, these factors should
not be relied upon to generate cashflow. The emphasis should be to maintain a
rigorous watch on collection.
Getting Through a Bad Year
9.        A more likely event that could occur is a natural calamity or civil
commotions that adversely affect the capacity of a P0 to recover loans. The
purpose of creating an emergency fund is to insulate the lender against such a
risk. To simulate the effect of such an event, an-d to evaluate the
sufficiency of the 5? emergency fund retention, the base case scenario is
amended to show a 602 collection ratio in year 3 recovering to 80? in year 4
and reaching 90? in year 5. The collection of rescheduled loans would also
collapse to 20? in year 3 and recover to 502 from year 4. The above results
in negative cashfl3ws in years 3 to 5 totaling a deficit of Rs 232,400 which
would require withdrawal of emergency funds from investment to maintain
operations. As emergency funds would total Rs 337,000, the P0 would be able
to maintain its operations and be current with the Trust.
10.       If such an event as described above occurs, the Trust would
continue to lend to the P0 as long as the accumulated emergency funds are
sufficient to cover the cashflow deficits until full recovery is made. The Po
should also require to achieve normal minimum recovery ratios within two years
of the calamity taking place. If the accumulated emetzency funds are not
sufficient to cover the cashflow deficit, the POs would need new capital from
other sources.



93 .NN-s
pgar 4 of 7
SRI LANKA
Poverty Alleviation Project
Financial Simulation of A Partner Organization
Year I   Year2    Year3    Year4    YearS
Assumptions
Initial Borrowing from Trust        1,000.00
Annual growth                                     15%       15%       15%       15%
Interest Rates
Payable to Trust                        7%       7%        7%        7%        7%
On Deposits                             8%        8%       8%        8%        8%
Subloans not rescheduled             19.5%     19.5%     19.5%    19.5%    19.5%
Subloans Rescheduled                   22%      22%       22%       22%       22%
Risk Funds
compulsory savings                      0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
Emergency Fund                          5%       5%        5%        5%        5%
Investment Income                        15%       15%      15%       15%       15%
Opeating Cost % of subloan             12.0%     11.0%    10.0%      9.0%      9.0%
Collections Ratio
Subloamns not rescheduled              90%      90%       90%       90%      90%
Subloans Rescheduled                   50%      50%       50%       50%      50%
Original Subloans                     1,000.00  1,150.00  1,322.50  1,520.88  1,749.01
Avenge Size (Re. '000)                     8.0       8.5      9.0       9.5      10.0
No. of Borrowers                          125       135       147       160      175
Saving per week (Rs.)                     5.00     6.00      7.00      8.00     9.00
Per annum (Rs. '000)                      0.26     0.31      0.36      0.42     0.47
Saving per   um                          32.50    42.21     53.49    66.60    81.85
Savings relent                              0%       0%        0%        0%       0%



-94 -                                      ANNEX9
Pagp 5 of 7
SRI LANKA
Poverty Alleviation Project
Financial Simulation of A Partner Organization
Year I   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5
Subloans Funded by Trust            1,000.00  1,150.00  1,322.50  1,520.88  1,749.01
Subloans Funded by savings             0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Subloans    1,000.00  1,150.00  1,322.50  1,520.88  1,749.01
Interest Payable
Loans not rescheduled              70.00    80.50    92.58   106.46   122.43
Rescheduled Loans                   0.00     8.37    13.80    15.87    18.25
Deposits                            2.60     5.98    10.26    15.58    22.13
Total      72.60    94.84   116.63   137.92   162.82
Interest Receivable
Subloans not rescheduled          195.00   224.25   257.89   296.57   341.06
Subloans rescheduled                0.00    26.29    43.38    49.89    57.37
Total     195.00   250.54   301.27   346.46   398.42
Operating Costs                      120.00   126.50   132.25   136.88   157.41
CurreatDue toTrust                  1,070.00  1,230.50  1,415.08  1,627.34  1,871.44
Amout due from Sub-borrowers        1,195.00  1,374.25  1,580.39  1,817.45  2,090.06
Collections                         1,075.50  1,236.83  1,422.35  1,635.70  1,881.06
Arrears                              119.50   137.42   158.04   181.74   209.01
Amount rescholedue                   119.50   137.42   158.04   181.74   209.01
Reschoedu  Period                         2        2        2        2        2
Maturities of Roschedued Amount
2                             59.75    59.75
3                                       68.71    68.71
4                                                79.02    79.02
5                                                         90.87
6
Rescheduled Principal Due                      59.75   128.46   147.73   169.89



- 95 -                                       AMNsx 9
Poge 6 of7
SRI LANKA
Poverty Alleviation Project
Financial Simulation of A Partner Organization
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year4   Year S
Rescheduled Amount duo to Trust
Rescheduled Balance - Opening                 0.00   119.50   i-7.17   226.75   260.76
Interest Charge                               0.00     8.37    13.80    15.87    18.25
Princlpal & Interest due                      0.00    68.12   142.26   163.60   188.15
Current & Rexhoduled Due Trust                950.50  1,161.19  1,399.30  1,609.20  1,850.58
Reschedul'4 Baanco - Closng                    119.50   197.17   226.75   260.76   299.88
Rescheduled Amount duo from Sub-borrower
Opening Balance                               0.00   119.50   197.17   226.75   260.76
Interest Charge                               0.00    26.29    43.38    49.89    57.37
Total       0.00    86.04   171.84   197.62   227.26
Rescheduled Amount Codlectod                    0.00    43.02    85.92    98.81    113.63
Arms written off                                0.00    43.02    85.92    98.81    113.63
Rescheduled Balance-Clodsg                     119.50   197.17   226.75   260.76   299.88
Overl Collections                            1,075.50  1,279.85  1,508.27  1,734.51  1,994.69
Ratio before rescheduled                      0.90     0.88     0.86      0.86     0.86
RaUo after rescheduled                        1.00     0.97     0.95      0.95     0.95
Savin Fund                                     32.50    42.21    53.49    66.60    81.85
Cumulative Savings Fund                        32.50    74.71    128.20   1^4.80   276.65
Compuory Deposts                                0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Cumulative Compuory Deposbt                     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total DpoQst                                   32.S0    42.21    53.49    66.60    81.85
Savings Depost Closig Baance                   32.S0    74.71    128.20   194.80   276.6S
Emergecy Fund                                  50.00    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45
Emergey Fund Closing Balnce                    SO.00   107.50   173.63   249.67   337.12
Inesments                                      82.50    99.71    119.61   142.64   169.30
wInestmet withdrawn                                       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Investment Closing Balanoe                     82.50   182.21   301.82   444.47   613.77
Investment income                                        12.38    27.33    45.27    66.67
Portfolio Assets
Subloan Principal plus interest            1,195.00  1,374.25  1,580.39  1,817.45  2,090.06
Reschoduled Balance Opening                   0.00   119.50   197.17   226.75   260.76
Rescheduled Interes                           0.00    26.29    43.38    49.89    57.37
Totad    1,195.00  1,520.04  1,820.94  2,094.08  2,408.19
Savings Fund                                   32.50    74.71    128.20   194.80   276.65
Emergency Fund                                 50.00   107.50   173.63   249.67   337.12
Compulsory Sav                                  0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Retaned Profits                                 2.40      0.9S    (5.25)   12.87    44.11
Accrued Ilteres                                 2.60      8.58    18.83    34.42    56.55
Tota Benofellc'   i         87.50   191.74   315.40   491.76   714.43
% of Portfoll-) Assets                          7.3%    12.6%    17.3%    23.5%    29.7%
Opeatlonal Cash                                125.00   118.65   108.97   125.31   144.11
Savings Deposit                                 0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Opeating Costs                                 120.00   126.SO   132.25   136.88   157.41
Not Oprating Cash                               5.00    -7.85   -23.28   -11.57   -13.30
Investment nlcome                               0.00    12.38    27.33    45.27    66.67
Net Cashflow                                    5.00      4.53     4.05    33.71    53.37
Cash withdrawn from savings                               0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Cash Closing Baldace                            5.00      9.53    13.58    47.29    100.66
% of Portfolio Asets                            0.4%     0.6%     0.7%     2.3%      4.27'*



-96-                                       ANNX 9
Page 7 of 7
SRI LANKA
Poverty Alleviation Project
Financial Simulation of A Puater Organization
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year4   YearS
Profit and Loss Statement
Interest Income
Loans not rescheduled              195.00   224.25   257.89   296.57   341.06
Rescheduled loans                   0.00    26.29    43.38    49.89    57.37
Total     195.00   250.54   301.27   346.46   398.42
interest Payable
Loans not rescheduled              70.00    80.50    92.58   106.46   122.43
Rescheduled loans                   0.00      8.37    13.80    15.87    18.25
Deposits                            2.60     5.98    10.26    15.58    22.13
Total      72.60    94.84   116.63   137.92   162.82
Net Interest Income                   122.40   155.70   184.63   208.54   235.61
Investment Income                      0.00    12.38    27.33    45.27    66.67
Total Revenue                         122.40   168.07   211.96   253.81   302.28
Operating Cost                        120.00   126.50   132.25   136.88   157.41
Bad Debt written off                   0.00    43.02    85.92    98.81   113.63
Net Income                             2.40    -1.45    -6.21     18.12    31.24
Cash Flow Statement
Overall Collections                  1075.50  1279.85  1508.27  1734.51  1994.69
Payments to Trust                    950.50  1161.19  1399.30  1609.20  1850.58
Operational Cash                      125.00   118.65   108.97   125.31   144.11
Operating Costs                       120.00   126.50   132.25   136.88   157.41
Net Operating Cash                     5.00    -7.85   -23.28   -11.57   -13.30
Investment Income                      0.00    12.38    27.33    45.27    66.67
Net Cashflow                           5.00     4.53      4.05    33.71    53.37
Reconciliation
Deposits relent                     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Deposit Interest                    2.60     5.98    10.26    15.58    22.13
Profits                             2.40    -1.45    -6.21     18.12    31.24
TOTAL         5.00     4.53     4.05    33.71    53.37



- 97 -                                 AbX
SRI LANKA
POVETY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Esti-mted Disbursm ent Sched*
(US$ Miliomk)
IDA Fiscal Year
Compont                  92      93     94     95     96    Total
A. Credit Fund                         1.9    3.4    4.0    5.1    5.6      20.0
B. Human Resouc  Development Fund    2.4    2.7    2.7    2.2    2.0        12.0
C. Rural Works Fund                    1.4    2.1    3.4    3.9    3.9      14.7
D. Nutrition Fund                      0.5    1.0    1.5    2.5    4.0       9.5
E. Employment & Poverty Policy Unit    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2       0.8
F.  Project Managoment                 0.1    0.1    0.3      -      -       0.5
Total      6.4    9.4   12.1   13.9   15.7      57.5
Cumulative Total    6.4   15.8   27.9   41.8   57.5
Percent of Total   11%    27%    49%    73%   100%



- 98 -                        Annex 11
Page 1 of 4
SRI LAN>-,
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
The Janasaviya Trust Fund
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Monitoring and evaluation of the Trust's activities will be part of
the Trust's management information systems to monitor performance of the Trast
and its partner organizations over time, and to determine which practices are
the most effective in their impact on the incomes and well being of the poor.
In developing the systems outlined below, the monitoring and evaluation
activities have been treated as two separate, although interconnected tasks.
2.        The monitoring system is a routine gathering of information on the
performance of the Trust's activities, carried out by the unit responsible for
each of those activities. Evaluation is a periodic stopping to assess whether
the activities of the Trust have had the impact that was intended; and whether
there are not more effective ways to achieve a greater impact. Some
evaluative information can be routinely gathered during the monitoring
process, but its analysis and assessment would normally be a separate task.
Monitoring
3.        Monitoring in the Trust - the routine function of ensuring that
activities take place as scheduled and that the cost and quality of
performance is the optimum possible - is the responsibility of each of the
operating divisions of the Trust. The methods used will be reports on
progress and disbursements from the partner organizations, supplemented by
field visits of Trust Staff.
4.        In order to provide a basis for assessing performance, monitoring
data would compare actual performance against a standard. The standard is
normally a previously prepared work plan or schedule, but comparisons can be
made with performance standards established for that particular economic or
social sector.
5.        Although the main responsibility for monitoring operations in the
field lies with the operating divisions, the Promotion and Field Support
Division would be used to provide feedback from the field, as requested.
Decisions on any corrective action would be taken by the respective operating
division.
6.        Monitoring activities would be aimed at strengthening the
information and control that the Trust had over the performance of the partner
organizations. Typical examples would be:



-99                           Annex 11
Page Z of 4
Credit Fund Monitorini
(a)  Disbursements by subloan borrower  location, outlet of the partner
organization, purpose and terms of loan. This tnformation would be
summarized and compared with planned disbursema.its;
(b) Repayments, and defaults, against the same items: and
(c) Data on outlet performance (groups formed, training undertaken,
financial viaiility, repayment rates, etc.), for each major partner
organization. These data, and the items above, would be
incorporated in the management information systemR reporting to
senior Trust management;
Rural Works Fund Monitorinr
(d) Payments for work completed, for each partner organization,
compared with the schedule of work anticipated in the work plan at
the time of making the grant;
Ce)  Summary data by location, type of proiect, numbers emplovad, costs,
and partner organizations, again compared with the medium term plan
of work;
Human Resource Development Fund Monitoring
(f) Accomplishments against each item of a grant from the Human
Resource Development Fund, in comparison with agreed development
plans formed at the time of making the grarv; and
(g) Training activities that are underway with Trust support. The
monitoring data would include numbers of atten&'es, attendance and
drop-out rates, together with any curricula changes.
7.        Monitoring information can be collected as part of the Trust's
management information system. It would be summarized for periodic reporting
to top management. It can also be used for evaluative purposes. Examples
are:
(a) Failure rates on the different types of micro-enterprises started
by the poor can be assessed by using the loan default data
routinely supplied by a partner organizations. This information
would be made available to all partner organizations; and
(b) Loan payback rates can be assessed using the information supplied
by partners. For example, an analysis of the training, group
organization methods, etc. can be made again using routinely
supplied data.



- 100 -                      Annez 11
Page 3 of 4
Evaluation
8.        The evaluation tasks of the Trust are more demanding.  The Trust
will operatR through a number of partner organizations, many using dLfferLng
concepts and practices. In many cases, the effectiveness of these practices
will not be knmwl. Examples are listed below of evaluations of Trust
activities where a search for the most effective practices would baniait the
program.
(a) An evaluation of method. of group formation, together with size and
structure of membership, and method. of organization and
mrinagement, if correlat A' with effective use of credit and the
development of income gnxerating capabilities will provide
information on successful ways to promote the organization of
beneficiaries.
(b) Practices in group savings schemes, if correlated with loan usage
and collection rates, may yield information on more offectlve
approaches to managing savings schemes for the poor.
(c) An evaluation of the constraints faced by the poor, and the
effectiveness of approaches used in developing their own self help
capabilities, would also provide approaches to strengthening the
program.
(d) The effectiveness of training schemes for beneficiaries would also
require frequent evaluation.
(e) The type, profitability and sust1.inability of different micro-
anterprise schemes.
(f) The extent to which the Trust and its partner organizations are
reaching the beneficiaries at whom the project is targeted will
need to be frequently assessed.
(g) The long term impact of practices used to develop the skills o; the
poor in implementing and managing rural works, and the
sustainability of such skill development will also need assessment.
9.        The Trust will need to ensure that its findings on the more
effective of these practices are incorporated in its own programs and in the
activities of its partner organizations. It will also need to ensure that the
training programs and seminars that it supports are updated by these
o aluation findings.
10.       A separate evaluation unit wo4ld be set up in the Trust (the
Evaluation and Planning Section in the Human Resources and Institutional
Development Division). This section would undertake the above evaluation
activities.



101 -                       Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
11.       These evaluations would also assist the partner organizations in
re-orienting their operating practices and training programs. An effective
method of sharing the knowledge and skills learned through such evaluations
would be through seminars and workshops supported by the Trust. These
seminars would be part of the development of a network of NGOs and POs, in
which information and experience is ehared among all organizations, including
the Trust.
Nutrition Monitoring and Evalutation
12.       Monitoring of the nutrition component will be undertaken by an
officer assigned to this task within the Nutrition Division. The component
will encompass a large number of volunteera, eventually opera'ing in
approximately 60 AGA divisions, the activities and achievements of which will
require the es.ablishment of a comprehensive systei1 of monitoring.
13.       The operation of the component will also requires a continuing
assessment of the effectiveness of different training and delivery systems.
This evaluation research activity will be undertaken by Sri Lankan consulting
and research organizations under contract.
SubJective Assessment of Impact
14.       A number of approaches are open to the staff of the Trust to assess
the effectiveness of their partner programs without establishing elaborate
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The approaches would be simple and
would include partially quantified measures of impact. A represe tative
questioning of recipients over time will determine whether recipients believe
that they are better off as a result of the program. A questioning on
responses to different group formation methods, the uses to which different
training schemes have been put, and other such questioning of beneficiaries
and program delivery staff, will yield useful insights into ways to improve
program effectiveness.
Mid-Term Evaluation
15.       The Trust will find it useful to undertake an evaluation of the
impact of its ope-ations about the third year after start-up. This mid-ternm
evaluation would .ave the purpose of assessing the impact that Trust
activities had on the incomes of those to whom Trust services were available.
The evaluation would also seek approaches to improving on this impact
14.       To carry out this evaluation, the Trust would first need to
establish base line surveys in a sample of AGA divisions or regional areas
prior to Trust operations being commenced. Ensuring that the base line
surveys were being conducted would be a task of Trust management. The mid-
term evaluation would also need to draw on the operational evaluations being
carried out by Trust staff that are described in the above paragraphs.
Without this prior preparation, the mid term evaluation would be useful, but
would not yield as much information as would otherwise be the case.



- 102 -                       Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Bank SuPervision Input into Key ActivitLes
Tentative         Main               Manpower                  Tentative
Dates             Activity           Reauired                  Staff-weeks
May 20, 1991       Project-          Poverty/Group Form/EPPU         3.0
Launch            Management                      2.0
Workshop          Credit                          2.0
Review of         Human Resources                 2.0
Systems and       Rural Works                     2.0
Procedures of     Nutrition                       2.0
Project           Disbursement & Procurement    2.0
Implementation
Sept. 1991        Supervision        Poverty/Consultants             3.0
Mission           Management                      2.0
(Review achiev.   J. Trust programs               2.0
FY91 program &
plan activ. FY92)
March 1992         Review of         Poverty/Management              2.0
Technical         Credit                          2.0
Implementation    Human Resources                 2.0
Issues of the     Rural Works                     2.0
Proj. Components  Nutrition                       1.0
EPPU                           1.0
Sept. 1992        Supervision        Poverty                         3.0
Mission           Management                      2.0
(Review achiev.   J.Trust programs                2.0
FY92 program &    Disbursement/Procurement        2.0
plan activ. FY93)
March 1993         Supervision       Poverty/Manag./Comun.Dev.       2.0
Mission           Credit                          2.0
(Impact assess.   Human Resources/EPMU            2.0
of project        Rural Works/Nutrition           2.0
on intended
beneficiaries)



-103 -                         Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Sept. 1993        Supervision        Poverty                         3.0
Mlssion           Management                      2.0
(Review achiev.   J. Trust programs               2.0
FY93 program &    Disbursement                    2.0
plan activ. FY94)
1994 and 1995     Two Supervislon   Poverty/Management/Com.Dev.   6.0
Missions and one  Credit                          3.0
Technical Review  Human Resources/PPMU            3.0
Rural Works/Nutrition          3.0
1996              One Supervision   Poverty                          3.0
Mission and One   Management                      2.0
PCR Mission



- 104-                         Annex-3
Page I of 4
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Assistance to Women
1.    Economic factors are at the root of women's poverty in Sri Lanka.
Compared to other low income countries in South Asia, Sri Lankan women enjoy
an advanced demographic and educational status. Progressive social policies
during the past years providing free education and scholarships, free health
services and an abundance of welfare programs have produced less gender
inequalities than in the rest of South Asia. Available data indicate that
gender disparities are not significant in mortality rates. By 1984, women in
Sri Lanka had attained one of the highest survival rates in South Asia with a
life expectancy of 72 years (just below Japan, Australia and Singapore, and on
par with Korea). Only four countries in Asia have lower infant mortality
rates than in Sri Lanka,1 with female infant mortality even slightly lower
than that af males. Girls' enrollment in primary schools is comparable to
that of boys (83.6Z for girls and 83.7Z for boys according to the 1981 Census)
and even slightly higher for the older age groups. The gender gap in literacy
has declined from 30Z in the mid-1940s to 81 at the beginning of the 19808.
Sri Lanka has also attained significant levels of development in higher
education for women.
2.    Sri Lanka's female population, however, conatitutes an untapped economic
resource. Although increasing, women's rate of participation in economic
activities is among the lowest in Asia. 2 Unemployment among women is about
double that of men. Female unemployment was 21.31 and male unemployment was
7.81 in 1981-82. The figures from the Labor Force and Socio-Economic Survey
(1985-86) are as follows:
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES IN SRI LANKA BY SEX AND SECTOR
(X)
All         Male         Female
All Island                     14.1         10.8        20.8
Urban                          19.5         15.8        27.9
Rural                          13.2          9.5        21.3
Estate                          7.8          9.0         6.4
1 Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore.
2 The economic activity rate for females was 23.1 and that of males 64.7
in 1981. Only India, Pakistan and Bangladesh had lower rates. (Economic activity
rates compare the total economically active female population to the total female
population of all ages.)



- 105 -                        Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
3.    The liberalization policies of the late seventies had a significant
impact on women's employment opportunities and incomes. Local and small
induetries have cuffered the most. In the handloom industry, approximately
40,000 women lost their jobs. The percentage of women among the textile
industry workers declined from 70.1X in 1971 to 47.1! in 1981. Female-headed
households, which in 1981 constituted 172 of households in Sri Lanka and were
among the poorest of the poor, continue to increase. Women engage in economic
activities for the survival of the family and need special support.
4.    Women's employment increased in the export oriented industries.  The
proportion of women in the urban manufacturing force increased from 20.4Z in
1981 to 30.3Z in 1985/86. In 1987, 81.62 of the workforce in the Katnayake
Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and 902 of those in the garment industry were
women between 18 and 25 years of age. Wages, however, are among the lowest in
Asian EPZs. Young women work in a very difficult environment of semi-skilled
assembly line tasks, little chances of mobility and high chances for
retrenchment due to automation or slack demand. Subcontracting to home-based
women pays rates below minimum wage levels. In sum, the women who benefitted
from the increased employment have still to cope with low incomes tnd little
opportunity for mobility, career advancement or skill improvement.
5.    In the rural sector, women farmers contribute around 50! of the
household income, work an average 14 hours a day in the fields, home gardens
and the household and are the main producers of subsidiary food crops
(chillies). However, they remain subordinated within the family structure,
have lost land rights and are increasingly vulnerable to mechanization.
6.    The most disadvantaged women in terms of employment opportunities and
income are the self-employed home-based producers in the urban and rural
informal sectors. They lack access to adequate capital, institutional credit,
skills, technology and markets. Women have been confined to the production of
food or consumer items for other low income families with minimal profit, to
petty trade with high interest on borrowed money and to employment in domestic
service locally or in the oil rich countries.
7.    There are no data on the proportion of women getting credit from formal
or informal sources, but women still lag behind men in their eligibility to
credit.   Many women resort to the money lenders with rptes as high as 2402
rather than going to the established banks which ask for collateral and
cumbersome documentation. Poor women often do not understand how to cope with
the paperwork and how to meet the various criteria for loans. Although there
is no overt discrimination against women, banks tend to prefer male customers
and bank officials sometimes discourage women from obtaining loans. Credit
could help many women improve and expand their productive skills as they
engage in self-employment and micro enterprise development.
8.    Against this background, strategies to assist women must necessarily
take into account their unequal access to resources. This project will pay
particular attention to the constraints faced by women in improving their
economic and social well being. Women will be given special consideration and



- 106                          Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
participate fully in all aspects of the implementation. There are two
additional reasons for this special consideration: experience has shown that
women are a better credit risk and women's incomes and profits are usually
allocated to improve their housing, children's education and family welfare
in general. In order for women to benefit from the credit, skills and support
made avLilable through the Janasaviya Trust and to encourage their full
participation in Sri Lanka's productive activities the project will in
general:
-     Promote the generation of gender disaggregated data by the
Emiployment and Poverty Policy staff at the Ministry of Policy
Planning and Implementation (MPPI) for monitoring social and
economic indicators.   This will include promoting the appropriate
changes in Household Finance and Labor Force surveys and analysis.
Initiate the production of gender specific data by the Trust
management information system and assess the project's impact on
the intended beneficiary women groups.
9.    In the area of human resource development, the project will:
-     Encourage and facilitate the organization of women's groups which
will mobilize women in low-income families in order to increase
their access to and control of economic resources by increasing
their bargaining power and developing their self-reliance.
Awareness creation, conscientization and training programs geared
to changing women's attitudes will enhance their participation in
the Trust lending and other programs.
Ensure that the partner organizations provide opportunities for
training in management, accounting, marketing and expand "women's
programs" beyond the traditional dressmaking, sewing and
needlework training.
-     Provide individual women who have accumulated savings or women's
groups savings funds with opportunities for training in business
skills so that they embark on business ventures instead of
consumption.
-     Require from the  'artner organizations to clearly state in their
business plans t ir proposed strategies for reaching individual
women and femalu - oups. Many potential partner organizations
reported that close to 40Z of their members were women who
borrowed from their credit facilities. However there is no good
statistical data on this.
-     Promote the exchange of experience with countries in the region
regarding the organization of self-employed women and women
entrepreneurs.



- 107 -                        Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
10.   In the area of credit the project will:
-     Assist with counselling (start-up and remedial), planning and
preparation of project documentation for the potential women
entrepreneurs.
-     Expand women's potential income generating activities or micro-
businesses by facilitating their access to credit. Flexibility
will be encouraged in the form of small loans, short term loans
(even for only a day at a time), interest rates in terms of an
amount per month, separation of accounts from the husband's when
needed, frequent repayment, group repayment and outreach to women
borrowers in their homes and places of business. Preference in
lending should be given to economically viable projects from
female-headed households.
11.   In the area of rural works the project will:
-     Ensure that the planned rural infrastructure works managed by the
government organizations and the :JGOs involve women in the
construction groups and in wage employment in general.
12.   The major expected outputs from the assistance to women by the project
will be:
(a) Improved data and indicators on the social and economic situation
of women and on the impact of the project's human resource
development, credit and rural works program on the status of the
particular women beneficiaries as well as the broader socio-
economic effects;
(b) Improved local capacity to pay particular attention to the social
and economic needs of poor women;
(c) Increased participation of poor women in credit programs and income
generating activities through small and micro enterprises; and
(d) Meaningful and sustainable increases in income levels for large
numbers of participating women.



- 103 -                  Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Reports and Studies
A.1   Sri Lanka. Sustaining the Adiustment Process, Report No. 8951-CE,
The World Bank, September 26, 1990.
A.2   Sri Lanka. Nutrition Review, Report No. 7575-CE, The World Bank,
July 13, 1989.
A.3   Sri Lanka: Report of the Presidential Commission on Youth
(Summary) January 19th, 1990.
A.4   ICTAD/ILO Technical Assistance Project. Final Report: Training and
Employment Needs of Women in the Construction Industry of Sri
Lanka, by Marina Fernando, July 30, 1989.
A.5   UNICEF: Situation Analysis of Children and Women in Sri Lanka,
1987.
A.6   UNIDO: Human Resources in Sri Lanka's Industrial Development - The
Current and Prospective Contribution of Women, 1989.
A.7   Centre for Women's Research (CENWOR), The Hidden Face of
Development, Sri Lanka, 1989.
A.8   Sarvodaya Strategic Plan 1991-1994, Sarvodaya, 1990.
B.    Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   UNDP,Project SRL/89/013. Sri Lanka: Employment and Poverty
Alleviation Proiect. Volume 1: The Prolect: Volume 2: The
Background and Volume 3:Background Reports on Project File.
June 1990
B.2   Poverty in Sri Lanka: Its Extent, Distribution and Characteristics
of the Poor, (Annex 1) by Neville Edirisinghe, June 1990.
B.3.  Profile of Socioeconomic Relationships in Sri Lanka, (Annex 2)
June 1990.
B.4   Micro Enterprise and Self Employment, (Annex 3) June 1990.
B.5   Current Approaches and Institutions Involved in Self Employment
and Micro Enterprise Credit in Sri Lanka, (Annex 4), June 1990.



- 109 -                  Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
B.6   Rural Infrastructure (Annex 5), June 1990.
B.7   Community GrouPs. Social Mobilisation and Credit, (Annex 6), June
1990.
B.8   Organization and management of the National Development Trust,
(Annex 7), June 1990.
B.9   Labor Absorption in the Agricultural Sector in Sri Lanka (Annex 2)
by R.B. Senaka Arachchi, June 1990.
B.10  Socio Economic Relations in the Rural Sector (Annex 3) by Jayantha
Perera, June 1990.
B.ll  Study on Credit and/or Small and Micro Entreprises Schemes of NGOs
(Annex 4) by P.P. Fernando, IRED/DSSC, March 1990.
B.12  Financial Analysis of Rural Lending Institutions, (Annex 5)
prepared by Agroskills Ltd., February 1990.
3.13  Report on Identification of OPRortunities and Priority Sectors for
Micro Enterprise Development (Annex 6) prepared by Agroskills
Ltd.. June 1990.
3.14  Financial Projections for Four Credit Programs (Annex 7), June
1990.
3.15  Study on Creation of Comunity Level Construction Units (Annex 8)
conducted by ICTAD, April 1990.
B.16  Sector Study on Employment and Poverty Alleviation Programs -
Rural Roads (Annex 9) prepared by Consultants in Technology,
Management and Development Studies, June 1990.
C.    Working Papers prepared by Bank Staff/Consultants
C.1   UNDP, Project SRL/89/013. Janasaviya Trust: Program Policy Manual,
Operations Manual, Personnel Manual, Implementation Plan and
Organization and Staffing Plan. Prepared by PACT and the
Janasaviya Trust, December 1990.
C.2   UNDP, Project SRL/89/013. Employment and Poverty Alleviation
Proiectt Narrative Reports of Consultants. PACT Consultancy
Mission, December 20, 1990.
C.3   Instrument/Deed of Janasaviya Trust Fund (Final copy submitted on
January 30, 1991)



MAP SECTION
I



IBRD 2087
Konkesonturoi                                                    SRI  LANKA
- oiloral roads
, Railways
\  SoIldcted towns and villoges
*Notional capital
listrict boundoress
. Provlrne boundorl"
,Rlvrs
A  F F  ;A
_  ,, ' M. U ;e a   T  V u
Maankubm
Toloironnor           /                -'
NA          ~    ~~/   I           -
Manna               N  0, 'R      HfP'N  _  _                         I   ' _    'KIpl5S'
MA N N A R              *                                                                J*.  Mo
Vavunlyn
,, .  .,, _.                                                  ) TRINCOMALE'
' /,>y'    A N U R AD    A      RA
Anuradlodop/r
1bMbMa~5\ms/    cOLOMBO    -V - F JJr/I(2J/
'   ,    N/O R r\H   ~~~~~~~czf   RAl \j1;
PdLtOM '                           NtALOLONNARIA                       GA Q
-r     mTALAM            |       ;/    0J;/F-?MON                           AL
.~~~~ ~~~ {  /        R;,Dmul                                   AT TI CALOAS
T,     A\A /        /    /c(_oqS/<                                          loa
hiol K U R U    9EA          MA    T A L E                        J 
t          Kvwunego_) rle     /x,
dwdme~   ~        ~ ~ dt heW- le <   r\  
PAKISrTRAN /;8ADULLA S!,VJ                                          \  AMPARAI
Galls0 -                                   batOta      I  K  AN Y_, K A/ Nc a
Kotunoydel   G A,8 A \;? K E G A L L A Z Xf \_         CX       > /             tA                          1
-r _ w coLo^ot ST _ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  A <t  
_f Wv ho hm, ,A or                                                                ul i  !
R _ M m  AL U T R.    COL OMBOnkf'
Gro to nor M. AAV                                  xlAA A}
60o o                                       RA\-                         /       -     edl                /t      
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                            T OT API  



