7CiF    COPY
Report No. 1112-RO                                                           FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation
and Agricultural Development Project Romania
March 29, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Irrigation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in their performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Lei 1           =   US$0.05
Lei 1,000       =   US$50.00
Lei 1,000,000        US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                     5    0.0394 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                           0.3937 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                           =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      =    0.6214 mile (mi)        2
1 square kilometer (km2)              =    0.3861 square mile (mi )
1 liter (1)                           =    0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)                  0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)    =    35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 atmosphere (at)                           14.2239 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                             1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 ton (ton)                           =    2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP         Agricultural Production Cooperative
CELIF       Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DIFCA       Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction
DGPD        Directorate General of Planning and Development
GSI         Group for Supervising Investments
IAS         State Agricultural Enterprise
IELIF       Enterprise for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
ISPIF       Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design
MAIA        Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA         Agricultural Mechanization Enterprise
TCIF        Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROMANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............                   ....*...*.*         i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ................ s........ .............. .................         1
II.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...........                       2
A.    Country Background  ...... .a...... ... ...... .  ................. . . .  2
B.    The Agricultural sector .                 ...........................      2
III.    THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS  ...............                       4
A.    The Project Area ............................                              4
B.    Natural Resources   ......          * * * * * * * *..........              5
C.    Land Tenure  ............ .......                 ............             5
D.    Agricultural Production  ......................                            6
E.    Farm  Inputs            .........................................          6
F.    Agricultural Research and Extension .                  ................    7
G.    Investment Financing  ......  ........ .......  ........... .              8
H.   Marketing  ..............             .............................         8
IV.    THE PROJECT  .          ..............................                          10
A.   Objectives  ..                ......................... ....... . ......   10
B.  Description . ......... ..................   10
C.   Detailed Features   , ................................ .................   11
Irrigation Component  ...........................                  11
Agricultural Component  ........................                   13
Livestock Component  .......... .... ............ ..               14
Rural Water Supply Component                  ................     15
D.    Water Requirement and Availability  .                .................    15
E.    Status of Engineering  ..............*.         .................         16
F.    Cost Estimates  .................................  ......                 17
G.    Financing  ............................................ .                 19
H.    Implementation Schedule  ............................                     19
I.    Procurement  .........  * ............................. . ..........      20
J.    Disbursements  ........... .. .. . ..  ............................ .     20
K.    Environment and Health  ..            .............. ...... ... .         21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. S. Niaz, T. Haile-Mariam and N. Worker (Bank); and A. Abidi and
W. Allan (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Cont'd)                                                                      Page No.
V.    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION                ....................................            22
A.    Organization  and Management  .......... ..                  ..............    22
The Borrower          ....................................    22
Implementing  Agencies            .............      ..............    22
B.    Operation and Maintenance  .............                   ...............    23
C.    Supporting  Agricultural Services  ........ ..                   ...........    24
D.    Recovery of Project Costs  ..............                   ..............    24
E.    Accounts and Audit             ................. ..................    25
F.    M1onitoring  .          ..........................................              26
VI.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........                ........................    27
A.    Production  ..........................................                          27
B. *   iarkets  ..............................................                        29
C.    Prices  ...............................................    30
D.    Producer Income              ......................................             31
E.    Main  Benefits and  Beneficiaries  ......... ..                 ...........    33
F. Economic Rate of Return                                 ..                         34
VII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .....                       ...............    34



ANNEXES
1. Agriculture and Description of Agricultural Component
2. Agricultural Production Organizations and Investment Financing
3. Marketing, Markets and Prices
4. Description of Irrigation Component
5. Description of Livestock and Rural Water Supply Components
6. Water Requirement and Availability
7. Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
8. Lists of Equipment and Materials
9. Disbursement Schedule
10. Farm Budgets and Recovery of Project Costs
11. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
15360     Typical Danube River Flow Patterns
15361(R)  Implementation Schedule
15362     Project Organization
MAP
IBRD - 11880






APPRAISAL OF
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROMANIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Romania's agricultural sector is an important contributor to the na-
tional economy, second only to the industrial sector. In 1974, it accounted
for about 16% of national income, about 27% of convertible foreign exchange,
and about 40% of labor force. Agriculture has contributed to Romania's eco-
nomic growth in several important ways: in addition to providing food, it has
been a source of raw materials for industry; a source of capital and foreign
earnings to help finance industrial development; and a source of labor for
growth of other sectors. Irrigation is important for stabilizing crop yields
in the southern and eastern plains, where rainfall during the cropping season
fluctuates widely from year to year and in some years results in crop failures.
Only about 24% of the arable area needing irrigation is presently irrigated.
Government has been emphasizing expansion of irrigation to achieve growth and
greater stability in agricultural production. In furtherance of this policy,
Government has requested the Bank's assistance to help finance the Rasova-
Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project, which is located
in the southeast, about 150 km from Bucharest.
ii.       Bank lending to Romania, since it became a member in December 1972,
has totalled US$350 million (7 loans) of which US$140 million (3 loans) is in
the agricultural sector. An eighth loan of US$50 million for a hydropower
project is also proposed for consideration by the Executive Directors in April.
The proposed loan of US$60 million would be the fourth loan in the agricultural
sector. Progress on previous loans is generally satisfactory.
iii.      The proposed project would:  (a) provide irrigation to about 65,400
ha presently rainfed, of which 70% is owned by Agricultural Production Co-
operatives (CAPs) and 30% by State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs); (b)
establish eleven dairy units consisting of 830 cows each, and two beef fat-
tening units to produce about 2,000 tons of meat annually; (c) provide a
grain silo (44,000 tons) and a feedmill (140,000 tons); and (d) provide water
supply to 17 rural communities with a population of about 15,000. The irriga-
tion water (49 m3/sec) would be pumped from the Danube river over an average
head of about 150 m, and would be distributed through concrete-lined canals to
39 pressure pumping stations, which would supply water to the pipe distribution
networks for sprinkler (31,400 ha) and furrow (34,000 ha) irrigation. The
system's pumping stations would have a combined capacity of 173,000 kW. The
project's irrigation component would also include supply of on-farm sprinkler
and furrow equipment, land leveling, soil erosion control works on 7,000 ha
and supply of farm machinery and implements. Establishment of a vineyard in
450 ha, and a fruit orchard in 350 ha are also included. In addition, the
project would provide equipment for operation and maintenance of irrigation
works.



- ii -
iv.       Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies but
excluding interest during construction, is estimated at US$130.5 million, of
which the foreign exchange component would be US$41.7 million. Interest and
other charges during construction on the proposed Bank loan are estimated at
US$10.8 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million would cover the
full foreign exchange component (US$41.7 million), interest and other charges
during construction (US$10.8 million) and about 8% of local cost (US$7.5 mil-
lion). Of the remaining local cost (US$81.3 million), 61% (US$49.8 million)
would be contributed by the Government, 2% (US$1.5 million) by the CAPs who
would own the agricultural and livestock developments to be made under the
project and 37% (US$30.0 million) by sub-loans advanced by the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) to the project's agricultural entities
(CAPs and IASs).
v.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAIA), through its
various departments and trusts, would be responsible for planning, construc-
tion and supervision of all project activities. Planning and design of ir-
rigation works would be carried out by the Institute for Land Reclamation
Studies and Design (ISPIF), and construction by the Construction Trust for
Land Reclamation Works (TCIF); both organizations are a part of the Ministry's
Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction (DIFCA). The
irrigation works would be operated and maintained by the Ministry's Central
for Operation of Land Reclamation Works (CELIF). Components other than irri-
gation would be planned and implemented under the Ministry's Directorate
General of Planning and Development (DGPD). All concerned agencies are com-
petent to carry out the proposed works satisfactorily. All procurement, fi-
nanced under the proposed loan, would be arranged in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Project implementation would be completed in five years by 1980;
irrigation would commence on one-third of the area in 1979, and the whole area
would be under irrigation in 1981.
vi.       The on-farm irrigation equipment, and subprojects under the project's
agricultural, livestock and water supply components would be mainly financed
through BAFI loans to various enterprises. The existing procedures for on-
lending and interest rates have already been reviewed and accepted by the Bank
for previous projects. Arrangements for the supply of other inputs as well as
the marketing aspects of the project are satisfactory.
vii.      At full development in 1984, the incremental crop production of var-
ious project commodities would be: cereals 215,000 tons; sugar beet 174,000
tons; vegetables and potatoes 32,400 tons; sunflower and soybean 6,200 tons;
fruits and grapes 11,800 tons; alfalfa (hay) 45,700 tons; and silage maize
377,500 tons. Gross value of crop production would increase by 280% from
US$8.5 million equivalent to US$32.5 million. The project's beef fattenning
units would yield 2,000 tons of meat from 1981; and its dairy units would pro-
duce 29 million liters of milk and 800 tons of meat from 1984. The feedmill
would produce 140,000 tons of processed feeds for livestock and poultry from
1980.  The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 17.4%.  Export of



- iii -
a part of commodities would annually earn about US$10 million in foreign ex-
change. The total income of about 6,000 members of CAPs would increase by
about 110% from about US$425 per member to about US$890. The project would
also benefit and improve the health of about 15,000 people (50% of project
population) living in the rural communities that would be served by the water
supply component.
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in the report,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$60 million to the Bank for Agri-
culture and Food Industry under the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of
Romania for a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace.






APPRAISAL OF
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Romania has requested the Bank's assistance in
financing the Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project.
The proposed project would increase: (a) the agricultural production of about
65,400 ha of rainfed land, located about 150 km southeast of Bucharest (Map
IBRD 11880), by providing irrigation, and (b) the milk and beef production of
this area by establishing dairy and beef fattening units. Construction of a
grain silo and a feedmill are also included as necessary adjuncts to the stor-
age and marketing of increased agricultural production, and to provide pro-
cessed feeds to livestock units. Provision of rural water supply to 17 vil-
lages (population 15,000) in the project area is also included. The project
would mainly benefit about 6,000 members of the agricultural production co-
operatives or, counting their family members, a population of about 13,000.
1.02      Romania joined the Bank on December 15, 1972 and has received seven
loans totalling US$350.0 million. An eighth loan of US$50.0 million for a
hydropower project is also proposed for consideration by the Executive Direc-
tors in April. Of these, the Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project (US$70.0
million), the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project (US$30.0 million) and
the agricultural component of the Flood Recovery Project (US$40.0 million out
of two loans totalling US$60.0 million) account for a total lending of US$140.0
million in the agricultural sector. The proposed loan would be the fourth in
this sector.
1.03      The proposed project was identified by the Government, and a feas-
ibility report was submitted to the Bank in December 1974. The project was
appraised in June 1975 by a mission consisting of Messrs. S. Niaz (Chief),
T. Haile-Mariam and N. Worker (Bank); A. Abidi and W. Allan (Consultants).
This report, which takes into account the contributions of Messrs. Worker,
Abidi and Allan, has been prepared by Messrs. Niaz and Haile-Mariam.



- 2 -
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Country Background
2.01      Romania has an area of 237,000 km2 and a population of 21 million
(mid-1974 estimate), which is increasing at an annual rate of about 1%. Per
capita income, in 1974, was estimated at US$910. The rural population is
about 12 million (57%), of which about 20%, with incomes below US$210 level,
constitute the poverty target group.
2.02      Romania is endowed with abundant natural resources, including sources
of energy and water, minerals and good soils. A number of small rivers origin-
ate from the Carpathian Mountains, which dominate the country's central part.
After flowing through various parts of the country, these rivers join the
Danube River, which follows Romania's southern border for several hundred
kilometers, before outfalling into the Black Sea.
2.03      Almost all resources are either owned or controlled by the State.
The State manages resource allocation and product distribution to achieve its
economic objectives as outlined in the national Social and Economic Develop-
ment Plan for each 5-year period. The emphasis in resource allocation has
been to achieve industrialization through high rates of investment which aver-
aged about 30% of GNP during 1969-74. While the national income grew by an
annual average of 10.7% in this period, the growth rate of the industrial
sector reached 14.3%. Industry is expected to continue receiving high prior-
ity investment and the sector's share of the national income would rise.
Presently, the indusrial sector accounts for about 54% of GNP, about 48% of
exports and employs 38% of the labor force.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Resources.  Of the nearly 15.0 million ha agricultural land (63% of
total area), about 9.7 million ha constitute cropland, 4.5 million ha are under
permanent pastures and 0.8 million ha in vineyards and orchards. Soils are
generally well suited to grow cereals (maize, wheat and barley), oilseeds (sun-
flower and soybean), fruits and vegetables, but low and uncertain rainfall in
many regions, particularly the southeastern, limits full exploitation of agri-
cultural potential without irrigation. Romania has substantial sources of ex-
ploitable water for irrigation including the Danube River, which is the major
source for areas in the south and the southeast. About 40% of the labor force
is engaged in agriculture, a part of which is underemployed. Level of mechan-
ization is low by European standards. Investment in agriculture has been re-
latively low; consequently, labor productivity is about one-fourth of that in
industry.



- 3 -
2.05      In 1975, the livestock population was estimated at about 29.0 mil-
lion, of which cattle were about 6.0 million (20%), pigs about 8.6 million
(30%) and sheep and goats about 14.4 million (50%). Poultry population was
around 67.7 million. Cows numbered about 3.0 million and produced about
4,000 million liters of milk. Meat production amounted to about 1.9 million
tons (liveweight). The quality of livestock is being improved by cross-
breeding both with imported stock and selected local breeds.
2.06      Sector in the National Economy.  The agricultural sector accounts
for about 16% of national income and about 27% of convertible foreign exchange
earnings. Agriculture, therefore, is of key importance to the national economy
as, in addition to producing raw materials, it also provides investment re-
sources including the foreign exchange to the rapidly growing industrial sector.
Although investment in the agricultural sector grew from Lei 12,800 million
(US$640 million) in 1970 to Lei 14,800 million (US$740 million) in 1973, its
proportion to total investment dropped from 17% in 1970 to 14% in 1973. The
sector's contribution to the national income, however, remained unchanged in
this period.
2.07      Growth in this sector has been slow; during 1966-70 the annual rate
averaged about 2%. In the first three years of the current 1971-75 plan, the
annual rate increased to 9.5%, but during 1974 it was almost negligible due
to below normal rainfall. It is also expected to be negligible in 1975 due
to near record floods in six river basins in central, southern and eastern
Romania. These floods caused extensive uamages; losses to crops and agricul-
tural assets are estimated at over US$380 million. These losses were expected
to reduce agricultural exports in 1975 by US$225 million (including US$125
million to convertible currency areas). Two recent Bank loans, totalling US$60
million, would assist the Romanian economy to recover from the effects of
the 1975 floods; of these, one loan of US$40 million (1169-RO) is for the
agricultural sector.
2.08      Future Development.  During the 1976-80 plan period, the agricultural
sector is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 4.6 to 6%, when the
area served by irrigation would increase from 1.2 million ha to 1.8 million ha.
In the livestock and poultry subsectors, emphasis would be on improvement of
breeds with consequent increases in production of milk, beef, mutton, pork and
poultry. By the end of 1980, it is expected that cattle would increase to 7.5
million (of which about one-half would be cows and heifers); sheep and goats to
19 million and pigs to 12 million. Production of milk would increase by about
50% to 6,700 million liters and of meat (liveweight) by 40% to 2.5 million tons.
Government plans to continue with the regional development policy, which has
been followed successfully during the past decade. The RasovaVederoasa Project,
which aims at regional development in the agricultural sector, is in line with
this approach.



- 4 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
3.01      Location.  The project area is located in Constanta district, about 150
km southeast of Bucharest and about 35 km west of the Black Sea city of Constanta
(Map IBRD 11880). It extends from the southern bank of the Danube River near
Rasova to the Bulgarian border near Negru Voda, and covers a gross area of
110,000 ha. Main towns within the project area are Negru Voda (population
8,000) and Cobadin (population 3,200). Medgidia with a population of 50,000
lies just outside the project boundary.
3.02      Topography.  The project area lies on a plateau, which rises sharply
from the terraces of the Danube Valley. The northern half of the area is about
150 m above the Danube Valley and the southern part is up to 30 m higher than
the former. In general, the area is undulating with mild slopes and is crossed
by five deeply incised (up to 100 m deep) and narrow valleys. The side slopes
of these valleys are quite steep, often larger than 10%, and are not suitable
for irrigation. These slopes are also subjected to soil erosion. The area to
be irrigated has slopes smaller than 10%; of the total 65,400 ha, about 50,000
ha (76%) has less than 5%.
3.03      Population.  The population of the project area, which includes 30
villages and two towns, is about 31,000, of which about 13,000 (42%) is within
the working age group. The agricultural labor consists of about 7,000 workers
or about 54% of total; the remaining are employed in industrial and other sec-
tors. On the average, a family consists of 4.4 persons, of which two adults
contribute to the project area's labor force.
3.04      Electricity and Water Supply.  All towns and villages in the project
area are electrified. Water supply in most villages is from shallow open wells,
which are unable to furnish the increasing demand. Also, due to absence of any
protection zones around the wells, the water supplies are liable to get polluted.
3.05      Communications.  The project area is served by a network of asphalt
roads; almost all villages are interconnected. One primary road, linking
Constanta with Baneasa, passes through the project area, and another which con-
nects Constanta with Negru Voda extends through the southeastern tip of the
project area into Bulgaria. The existing farm road network is generally satis-
factory. In certain parts of the project area, it would be extended as a part of
the on-farm development under the project. The Medgidia-Negru Voda railway
line serves the project area, and forms its eastern boundary.
3.06      Livestock.  The livestock population of the project area is estimated
at 26,000 cattle, 150,000 sheep and 30,000 pigs. Most of these animals are
kept in livestock farms that are managed as independent economic units; a small
percentage is retained on agricultural farms to meet the local needs of milk
and meat. Some farmers rear a few animals each on individual plots (para. 3.10).



- 5 -
B. Natural Resources
3.07      Climate.  The climate is basically continental with hot summers and
cold winters, but is temperated by air movements from the Mediterranean and
Black Sea. Average monthly maximum temperature varies from 28.90 C in July to
1.70 C in January; the minimum varies from 16.30 C in July to -4.70 C in January.
Average annual precipitation is around 433 mm, of which about 235 mm (54%)
falls during the cropping season of April to September. The minimum annual
rainfall could be as low as 220 mm, with only 45 mm during the cropping season.
Frost period extends from December to February. Wind velocity varies from
2.2 to 4.1 m/sec during the day but decreases during the night. Further data
is given in Annex 1.
3.08      Soils and Land Classification.  Detailed surveys indicate that the
soils consist of chernozems 1/, which have developed over deep deposits of
loess. They are very fertile, have a medium texture, a uniform profile,
moderate to high permeability and a good water retention capacity. The loess
deposits vary in depth from 5 m to 40 m; most are sensitive to moisture and
may settle from 5 cm to over 40 cm on wetting. About 88% of the area to be
irrigated is categorized as Class 1, and the remaining 12% as Class III,
mostly on account of its eroded nature and lesser fertility.
3.09      Wlater Resources.  Groundwater is available at a depth of 10 m or
more in most parts of the project area but in quantities insufficient to
irrigate large areas. The only reliable source of irrigation water for the
project is the Danube River, which flows close to its northern boundary but,
because of difference in levels, its water has to be lifted about 150 m for
irrigating the project area. Groundwater, however, is suitable for use in
rural and urban water supply schemes.
C. Land Tenure
3.10      All project land is either owned or controlled by the State.  Of
the gross area to be irrigated, 45,900 ha (70%) are owned and farmed by 32
Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAPs), which have an active membership
of about 6,000. About 175 ha of CAP land is distributed among eligible co-
operative members in sizes not exceeding 1,500 m2 as individual plots, where
these members can farm for their personal benefit. The remaining 19,500 ha
(30%), owned by the State, are farmed by 6 State Agricultural Enterprises
(IASs). Areas held by the CAPs vary in size from 600 ha to 4,000 ha, and by
IASs from 600 ha to 6,000 ha.
1/   Dark colored soils, rich in humus.



- 6 -
3.11      The governing body of a CAP is its General Assembly, whose member-
ship consists of all working adults in the CAP. The Assembly elects the CAP's
President, and is responsible for preparing its annual plans, ratifying all
contracts and allocation of CAP's income; all in accordance with the general
guidelines of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAIA). All exe-
cutive functions are performed by a Council, whose membership includes the
President (and the Vice President, if any), the Chief Economist, the chiefs
of the farms in the CAP and the representatives of technicians and of CAP's
members. The CAPs meet the labor requirement from their members and normally
do not hire labor. Further details are given in Annex 2.
3.12      The chief executive officer of an IAS is its Director, who is ap-
pointed by the Ministry. He is assisted by a Chief Economist and chiefs of
the farms in the IAS. The governing body of an IAS consists of its top man-
agement, representatives of the unions and the Party and the elected repres-
entatives of the workers. IASs employ all labor, some of which is temporary.
Labor is paid in accordance with national wage rates; a premium is paid to
those whose performance results in production exceeding planned targets.
Further details are given in Annex 2.
D. Agricultural Production
3.13      Land Use.  Of 110,000 ha in the project area, only 64,800 ha (59%)
are suitable for cultivation of field and permanent crops; the remainder is
mostly hilly with slopes exceeding 10%. The cultivable area is currently
rainfed. Cereals (wheat, maize, barley) occupy about 70% of the area; crops
grown on the remaining area include forage (13%); sunflower (12%); and veg-
etables, sugar beet, soybean, grapes and other fruit (5%). The cropping pat-
tern is not expected to undergo a major change in future if irrigation is not
introduced; some increase in areas under maize, soybean, sugar beet and fodders
is foreseen at the expense of wheat and sunflower.
3.14      Production.  Since a fair amount of technology is already available to
the project area, yields are reasonable for unirrigated crops. These yields are
not expected to change in the future without irrigation. Present yields, which
widely vary according to the amount of rainfall during the cropping season,
average 2.1 tons/ha for wheat and barley, 2.3 tons/ha for maize, 1.0 ton/ha for
soybean, 1.2 ton/ha for sunflower and 17.8 tons/ha for sugar beet. Present, and
future without project, production from the project area are summarized at
Annex 1, Table 2.
E. Farm Inputs
3,15      Seeds, Fertilizers and Pesticides.  Seed production, processing, test-
ing, certification and distribution is well organized. Seeds for breeders are
produced on the research stations; seed multiplication is entrusted to IAS farms
and selected CAPs. Special organizations (SEMROM, AGROSEM, etc.) within the



- 7 -
ttinistry are responsible for seed production, processing, testing, certifica-
tion and distribution. In spite of a production of about 3.0 million tons of
fertilizers, average application rate is low. Currently, IAS farms receive
higher amounts of fertilizers as compared to CAPs, but after irrigation the
disparity, if any, would be insignificant because Government allocations for
all irrigated areas are the same. Plant protection efforts are usually ade-
quate and timely. Most pesticides, fungicides and weed killers are produced
within the country; their production has increased by about 300% during the
last decade.
3.16      Farm Machinery.  Tractors and other farm equipment and implements are
manufactured in Romania. Presently there is one tractor to every 80 ha of
arable area under CAPs and to every 56 ha in the IAS farms. The CAP farms are
served by the Agricultural Mechanization Enterprises (SIA), while the IAS farms
own, operate and maintain the equipment required by them. The CAPs in the
project area are currently being served by seven substations of the Constanta
SMA. Land preparation is completely mechanized, while seeding, fertilizing,
spraying of pesticides and harvesting operations are mechanized to a consider-
able degree on the IAS farms and to a lesser degree on the CAPs. Maize and
wheat production, for example, is mechanized to an extent of 65% and 85% re-
spectively on the CAPs; comparable figures on the IASs are 90% and 100%.
Some of the equipment at the SMA substations serving the project area needs
replacement and has been provided for under the project.
F. Agricultural Research and Extension
3.17      Agricultural Research.  The Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
Sciences coordinates all agricultural research in Romania, which is carried
out in 17 institutes and 35 experimental stations. These institutes and sta-
tions, which are well distributed throughout the country's ecological zones,
are staffed by about 1,600 scientists and cover about 80,000 ha. Emphasis is
being laid on applied aspects including varietal improvements and cultural
practices. The main regional experimental station is located at Valul Lui
Traian, a few kilometers east of the project area, where research is being
carried out since 1970 on project area crops under irrigated conditions.
Prior to 1970, this station was devoted to the problems of rainfed crops.
3.18      Agricultural Extension.  Extension work is organized in Romania
through the General Directorate of Agriculture in each district. The General
Directorate of Constanta district has a staff of 18 specialists in crop and
livestock production, and marketing at its headquarters. In addition, each
CAP or IAS has its own specialists, who are furnished by the General Direc-
torate in case of CAPs and by the Department of State Agriculture in case of
IASs. Thus the extension staff has a direct say in improvement of cultural
practices and application of technology instead of an advisory role. In-
stuction manuals that are prepared and periodically updated by specialist
staff are made available to each farm. Thus, the research findings rapidly
pass into practice, and the supervisory staff at each CAP and IAS adequately
monitor their application. Further details on agriculture are given in
Annex 1.



- 8 -
G. Investment Financing
3.19      Investments in projects, which specifically benefit the IASs, are
financed generally from the State budget and from compulsory savings of such
enterprises. The major sources of financing investments in CAPs are loans
from the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI), and savings of the
cooperatives. Financing of investments in State enterprises under BAFI loans
is relatively small but is expected to increase in future. Investments in
large-scale irrigation works, however, which serve both the IAS and CAP lands
are financed through the State budget; such funds are channelled through BAFI.
Short-term credit for production, and credits for marketing and processing
of agricultural products are also extended by BAFI to suitable cooperative
or inter-cooperative enterprises.
3.20      Normally, up to 70% of on-farm investments in CAPs are financed
through BAFI loans, but in special cases, up to 95% of such investments may be
financed by BAFI. Farm entities are required to contribute the balance. BAFI
extends long-term loans for no more than 25 years at an interest of 3% per an-
num; short-term production loans bear an interest of 4%. These interest rates
are considered positive because of the near zero rate of inflation in Romania.
3.21      BAFI obtains funds for its operations from the State budget, deposits
by various State enterprises and cooperatives, borrowings from the Romanian
National Bank, foreign loans and its own statutory capital of Lei 300 million
(US$40 million). For large-scale investments financed by Government, BAFI
obtains funds from the State budget at no interest. Deposit funds with BAFI
bear an interest of 1-1/2%. For making short-term loans, BAFI borrows from
the National Bank at 1% per year. A part of BAFI's net profits are returned
to the State budget.
3.22      BAFI was founded in 1968 for channeling funds exclusively for the
agricultural sector. It has six specialized departments, three of which ad-
minister the financing of production, marketing and processing of agricultural
products. The other three are responsible for planning, financial control and
general administration.   BAFI operates through 39 branches, with one branch in
each district, and 100 sub-branches. The project area is served by the dis-
trict branch (at Constanta) and four sub-branches.
H. Marketing
3.23      All agricultural produce in Romania is marketed at fixed prices by
13 State controlled and operated Centrals, each of which specializes in mar-
keting specific commodities like cereals, vegetables and fruit, sugar, meat,
milk, etc. In each district, a few markets, run by peasants for sell-
ing the produce from small individual plots or private farms, are allowed
sor,e price flexibility, but handle only a small volume of produce for local
consumption.



- 9 -
3.24      Each marketing Central is represented in the country's 39 districts
by a marketing enterprise, which is the Central's executing agency. Each en-
terprise has several collecting centers, which are suitably located throughout
the district. All collecting centers and enterprises are well equipped to
efficiently collect, handle and distribute various commodities in accordance
with the State plan without excessive losses. Prices play little or no role
in allocating products among various markets. The marketing enterprises,
however, do have adequate incentive in terms of profit margins to promote
efficient distribution.
3.25      At least six Centrals and their enterprises, and a large number of
their collecting centers would market the project commodities. As all produc-
tion plans in any region are closely coordinated with expected product use and
distribution, adequate measures have already been planned for handling antici-
pated incremental output from the project. Further details about marketing
are given in Annex 3.



- 10 -
IV. TIIE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The main objectives of the project are (a) to increase and stabi-
lize crop production in an area of 65,400 ha gross (64, 800 ha net) through
provision of irrigation; (b) to develop milk and beef production in the proj-
ect area; and (c) to increase the income of project beneficiaries. Other
objectives are to improve the drinking water supply of 17 rural communities
with about one-half of the project population, and to contribute to the
country's long-term goal of improving the national dairy herd through cross-
breeding by providing imported foundation stock.
B. Description
4.02      The project would consist of (a) an irrigation component, which
would include a system of irrigation works including on-farm sprinkler and
furrow equipment, land leveling and soil erosion control works, and farm
machinery and implements; (b) an agricultural component consisting of the
establishment of a vineyard (450 ha) and an orchard (350 ha), and a 44,000
ton grain silo; (c) a livestock component, which would include eleven dairy
units, two beef fattening units and one feedmill; and (d) a rural water sup-
ply component.
4.03      The irrigation system would utilize a maximum flow of 49.0 m3/sec
to irrigate the project area, partly by sprinklers (31,400 ha) and by fur-
rows (34,000 ha) at an overall efficiency of 60%. The system would consist of
a floating pumping station on the Danube River near Rasova; a concrete-lined
main canal, two branch canals and their distributary canals; two pumping
stations on the main canal, two on the branch canals and four on the distri-
butaries; 39 pumping stations to pressurize the water for distribution; pipe
distribution networks for both sprinkler and furrow areas; and portable
on-farm irrigation equipment. The irrigation component would also include
land leveling of about 13,000 ha, soil erosion control works on 7,000 ha and
farm machinery and implements required to cultivate the project area following
introduction of irrigation. Detailed features of the irrigation and other
project components are described in Section C below. Further details are in
Annexes 1, 4 and 5.
4.04      MAIA would be responsible for planning, construction, supervi-
sion of construction and operation and maintenance of the project works.
The Ministry's Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction
(DIFCA) would supervise the design and construction of irrigation works.
Under DIFCA, the Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design (ISPIF)
would carry out the planning and design functions, the Construction Trust
for Land Reclamation Works (TCIF) would construct the irrigation works, and
the Central for Operation of the Land Reclamation Works (CELIF) would operate



- 11 -
and maintain them. All works relating to components other than irrigation
would be implemented by MAIA's Directorate General of Planning and Develop-
ment (DGPD) with assistance from relevant institutes and construction trusts.
C. Detailed Features
Irrigation Component
4.05      Main Pumping Stations.  A floating pumping station (average lift
5.5 m), near Rasova (Map IBRD 11880), would lift up to 49.0 m3/sec from the
Danube River into the main canal. About 4.5 km downstream, Baciu pumping
station would raise the water level in the main canal by another 6.7 m. The
next station at Hateg, which is the largest on the system, would lift 19.0
m3/sec over 88.7 m into Rasova branch canal, and up to 30 m3/sec over 71.1 m
into Vederoasa branch canal. About 1 km downstream, on the Rasova branch
canal, another station would lift its flow over 40.5 m. Similarly, a pump-
ing station on the Vederoasa branch would raise its flow over 67.4 m. A
schematic diagram showing the lifts at various pumping stations is given on
Map IBRD 11880; data on the stations is summarized in Annex 4, Table 1.
Four smaller pumping stations, located on distributaries of Vederoasa branch
canal would raise their discharges (varying from 0.8 to 3.5 m3/sec) over lifts
varying from 11.0 m to 43.0 m in order to irrigate the southern part of the
project area, which is at higher levels. All pumps would be driven electri-
cally and would have a combined installed capacity of 114,300 kW. About 240
km of 20 kV power transmission lines, and transformer substations with an
aggregate capacity of 137 MVA, would be constructed to supply power to the
main and pressure pumping stations.
4.06      The Canal System.  The main canal, with a capacity of 49.0 m3/sec,
would be constructed in three short reaches--the first (1.5 kin) would connect
the discharge basin of the floating pumping station with Baciu lake, a natural
lake about 2.5 km long; the second (0.5 km) would convey water from the lake
to Baciu pumping station; and the third reach (1.5 km long) would carry water
to the main pumping station at Hateg. The Rasova branch canal would have a
capacity of 19.0 m3/sec and would irrigate about 25,400 ha; the Vederoasa
branch would irrigate the remaining 40,000 ha with a maximum flow of 30.0
m3/sec. A number of distributary canals would serve the project area. Total
length of the canal network, all of which would be concrete lined, would be
about 175 km and would involve an excavation of about 13 million m3 and a
fill of 3 million m3. The canal system would cross ten large and small
valleys through siphons. Other main structures on the system would consist
of 39 gated regulators, 33 bridges, 45 drainage culverts, 30 escape weirs



- 12 -
and 12 drops. Thirty-nine pressure pumping stations on the canal system
would provide high (9-10 atmospheres) or low (3-4 atmospheres) pressure to
->e water entering the piped distribution networks.
4.07      Over 90% length of the canals would traverse zones that are made
up of loess soils with depths varying from 5m to 40 m. Most of these soils
are likely to subside, on wetting, by 5 cm to over 40 cm. Canals traversing
zones that are particularly sensitive to wetting would be operated without
lining for two to three years so as to compact the subgrade prior to con-
crete lining. In these sensitive reaches only temporary canal structures
would be provided initially, which would be replaced by permanent works
after full subsidence of loose soils. All major pumping stations would be
located on bedrock foundations, except for the Rasova station which would
be supported on I m diameter drilled caissons penetrating the 25 m thick
loess layer to limestone bedrock. Further details of loess soils and works
thereon are given in Annex 4.
4.08      Pipe Distribution Networks.  The project area would be divided
into 39 irrigation sectors, each of which would be served by a pressure
pumping station and an independent pipe network. There would be 18 such
sectors on Rasova branch canal and 21 on Vederoasa branch. The sector
size would vary from about 500 ha to 3,000 ha, with an average of 1,660 ha,
depending on the terrain. The main supply pipe of each network would feed
a number of distribution pipes, which would normally be spaced 612 m apart.
The main and the distribution pipes of each network would be mostly of
asbestos cement and would be buried. Total length of pipe for the irriga-
tion system is estimated at 1,570 km, of which about 1,300 km would be
of asbestos cement (100 mm to 600 mm) and the remaining of reinforced
concrete and steel (100 mm to 1,000 mm).
4.09      Sprinkler Irrigation.  Parts of the project area (totalling
about 31,400 ha) having ground slopes exceeding 3% or requiring excessive
land leveling would be irrigated by sprinklers, which is the least cost al-
ternative for such a terrain. Irrigation sectors would be subdivided into
blocks of about 38 ha, each of which would be served by a distribution pipe
on which 9 or 10 hydrants, spaced 72 m apart, would be provided. Each hydrant
would have connections for four laterals, but a distribution pipe would be
able to furnish pressurized supplies to only two laterals per block simulta-
neously. Sprinklers would be spaced at 18 m interval along the portable
laterals and would irrigate an area of 18 m by 18 m at an intensity of 6.8 mm
to 8.8 mm per hour at a minimum pressure of 3 atmospheres.
4J10      Furrow Irrigation.  About 34,000 ha, where ground slopes are less
tLan 3, and the relief is more uniform, would be irrigated by furrows. This
area would also be divided into sectors and subdivided into 38 ha blocks.
A low r:essure pumping station would feed the main pipe and its distribu-
tion pipes (also spaced at 612 m intervals) in one irrigation sector. Hy-
drants would be provided at an interval of 216 m along the distribution
pip-,s Each hydrant would feed a set of furrows through a portable butyl



- 13 -
pipe provided with outlets at furrow spacings (normally 450 mm). Working
pressure at the hydrants would be about 0.35 atmosphere and each outlet in
the butyl pipe would be designed to deliver up to 3.5 1/sec.
4.11      On-farm Equipment.  On-farm portable equipment would include
duralumin pipes, sprinklers and accessories for the sprinkler-irrigated
area and butyl pipe and accessories for the furrow-irrigated area. This
equipment would be provided to the cooperatives and the State farms on credit
by BAFI.
4.12      Land Leveling.  Of the 34,000 ha to be irrigated by furrows, land
leveling would be provided on about 13,000 ha. Mostly light leveling (100 to
150 m3/ha) would be involved, which would correct minor topographic irregu-
larities.
4.13      Soil Erosion Control Works.  Soil erosion control works consisting
of protective plantation, terracing, leveling, stone and grass chutes and
other minor works would be carried out to protect about 7,000 ha of irrig-
able land with slopes exceeding 5%. Similar works would also be necessary
to protect deep cuts or natural steep slopes, adjacent to important project
structures like the pumping plants, canal regulators, etc., from soil erosion.
4.14      Farm Machinery and Implements.  About 375 tractors, 170 harvesters
for various project crops; other cultivating, fertilizing, crop protection
and transport equipment; and implements (Annex 8, Table 2) would be provided
under the project. Most of these machinery and implements would be required
to cultivate and harvest increased production due to the project and the bal-
ance would replace the worn out equipment of SMAs serving the cooperatives
in the project area.
Agricultural Component
4.15      Vineyard.  A vineyard covering 450 ha would be established in the
southeastern part of the project area, near Chirnogeni (Map IBRD 11880), for
the production of high quality wine grapes. The vineyard would be irri-
gated by the irrigation system to be constructed under the project. About
3,500 vines would be planted per hectare and would be supported by reinforced
concrete trellises and galvanized iron wire. The vineyard would be estab-
lished over 4 years, and at full production would yield about 5,400 tons of
grapes. All production would be supplied to an existing wine factory, located
adjacent to the proposed vineyard. Most of the wine produced from project
grapes would be exported. Further details are in Annex 1.
4.16      Orchard.  An orchard covering 350 ha would be established under
the project close to the vineyard. The orchard would consist of apricot
and peach (150 ha), plum (115 ha), sweet cherry (45 ha) and sour cherry
(40 ha) trees. Depending on the fruit, the density of trees would vary



- 14 -
from 300 to 500 per hectare. The orchard would be planted over 4 years and
would be irrigated by the project irrigation system. At full production,
the orchard would yield about 3,600 tons of fruit, a part of which would be
supplied to canning factories and the balance would be consumed in the do-
mestic market. Further details are given in Annex 1.
4.17      Silo.  The project would also provide a grain silo, with a capa-
city of 44,000 tons, near Baneasa (Map IBRD 11880). This silo would be used
to store a part of the project output of grain (wheat, barley and maize),
most of which would be transported from the southwestern part of the proj-
ect area. The silo would be equipped with grain drying and processing facili-
ties. About 80,000 tons of grain would be handled by the silo per year.
Further details are in Annex 1.
Livestock Component
4.18      Dairy Units.  Eleven dairy units would be established under the
project, of which at least seven would be on cooperative farms and the
remaining on State farms (Map IBRD 11880). Each unit would follow the
standard model designed by the Institute for Studies, Research and Design
of Zootechnical Construction of MAIA, which is acceptable and would consist
of 830 heifers of superior dairy merit, of which about 600 would be in milk
at any one time. The facilities at each dairy unit would consist of 3 barns,
each housing 200 cows in milk; a maternity house for 80 cows and a nursery
for young calves. Cows would be bred by artificial insemination. All female
calves would be reared, inseminated at 15 to 18 months age and either retained
as replacements or sold to other dairy units. Male calves would be disposed
of at 15 days age for fattening (95%) or for breeding (5%).
4.19      About 9,130 Holstein heifers would be imported in suitable batches
over the project implementation period, and up to one-half of these heifers
could be used in acceptable dairy units located outside the project area but
within the contiguous southeastern region of Romania. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that (a) the dairy units within the project area
would receive the imported heifers in preference to other dairy units until
high quality first and second generation pure-breed offspring of dairy cows
imported earlier were available to replace the heifers imported under the
project; (b) the imported heifers used in dairy units outside the project
area would be grouped in lots of no less than 200; and (c) prior to the
distribution of the imported heifers outside the project area, the Bank
would have reviewed and agreed to appraisal reports for those dairy units
in which the imported heifers are to be utilized.
4.20      Each dairy unit would yield about 2.6 million liters of milk an-
nually and, after full development in 1984, the total milk yield from the
eleven dairy units would amount to about 29 million liters. Further details,
including the herd projection, are given in Annex 5.



- 15 -
4.21      Beef Fattening Units.  The project would include the establish-
ment of two beef fattening units, each with a capacity of 3,200 head, to
be located at Negresti and Adamclisi cooperative farms (Map IBRD 11880).
These units would also follow a standardized model designed by the Insti-
tute for Studies, Research and Design of Zootechncial Construction of MAIA,
which is acceptable. Each unit would consist of fattening houses, a recon-
ditioning house and a summer shelter for the animals; a feed processing unit;
a slaughtering room with cold storage and other associated facilities. Male
calves would be purchased at 15 days age (average liveweight 45 kg) at the
rate of 240 per month and sold after about 350 days (average liveweight 375
kg). At full production, in 1981, both units would produce about 2,000 tons
(liveweight) of meat annually. Further details are given in Annex 5.
4.22      Feedmill.  The project would include the construction of a feed-
mill, with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons, at Negru Voda (Map IBRD
11880). The feedmill would meet the existing gap of 60,000 tons between the
present feed requirements of the area and the quantities that can be sup-
plied by the two existing feedmills in the area. In addition, it would also
meet the demands that would be generated in the project area in the next 5
years both by the livestock component of the project (35,000 tons), and
other livestock developments planned (45,000 tons) by the Government. The
feedmill would consist of a grain silo (capacity 57,000 tons), a feed pro-
cessing mill, and feed pelleting, batching and storage facilities. The mill
would process grain and industrial meals (soybean, sunflower grist, wheat
bran) and would homogenize them with minerals, fats and micro-ingredients in
proportions specified by formulae for feeds for various categories of live-
stock and poultry. Further details are in Annex 5.
Rural Water Supply Component
4.23      This component would consist of providing potable water supply to
16 villages and Cobadin town (Map IBRD 11880) with a total population of about
15,000 (50% of project population).  Some of these schemes would also furnish
water to existing livestock enterprises within the project area. Each scheme
would consist of a drilled well (up to 250 m depth) of required diameter, an.
electric pump, chlorination equipment, water tank, and a supply and distribu-
tion network of asbestos cement pipe.  The schemes would be designed with a
water allowance of 200 liters per head per day for the population served and
an allowance of 60 liters per head per day for livestock. Further details are
given in Annex 5.
D. Water Requirement and Availability
4.24      Water Requirement.  After allowing for average effective precipita-
tion, net water requirements for crops in the project area, including the



- 16 -
vineyard and the orchard, were estimated at 3,650 m3 per hectare. The high-
est monthly demand of 1,050 m3/ha would occur in July. Based on the proposed
--,ation methods of sprinkler (48%) and furrow (52%), the overall system
efficiency has been computed as 60%. Gross water requirement, at the Danube
River, would be equivalent to 6,080 m3 per hectare, which would amount to a
total demand of 461 Mm3 during the cropping season, of which about 134 Mm3
would occur in July. The July demand would correspond to a maximum flow
of about 49.0 m3/sec. Further details are given in Annex 6.
4.25      Water Availability.  The source of water for the project irriga-
tion system is the Danube River, which during the irrigation season (May
to September) carries high flows (Chart 15360). Diversions for the project
would be the highest during July, when the Danube flows are seldom less than
6,000 m3/sec. The project, therefore, would have an assured supply of water
at its source. The Danube waters, classified as Cl SI, are of excellent
quality for irrigation.
4.26      Water Rights.  There is no effective international agreement among
the Danube river riparian states for the use of its water for irrigation but
a convention exists for development of the river for mutual benefits, and for
protection of navigation and water quality. The International Water Commis-
sion for the Danube River, of which Romania is a member, is mainly concerned
orith such schemes which may interfere with navigation and water quality. The
niaximum diversion for the project in July would amount to less than 1% of the
minimum river flow in that month. The Government has confirmed, by a letter,
that diversions for the project would not reduce the Danube flow below 935 m3/
sec, which is the agreed minimum to sustain international navigation, and
therefore no agreement of the other riparians would be required. In view of
the above, there is no reason to expect that the project would raise issue on
the use of the Danube waters.
E. Status of Engineering
4.27      After carrying out necessary field surveys and investigations,
studying alternative alignments of canals and alternative locations of
pumping stations, ISPIF has already completed detailed designs and drawings
for all irrigation works. Notwithstanding the technical difficulties which
arise due to the presence of loessial soils, the irrigation works are well
conceived and their design has been caried out using a high level of pro-
fessional competence. The works included in other project components are
standardized, and their detailed design and drawings are also available.
In 'act -tveral livestock and agroindustrial developments, similar to those
included in the project, are already completed and successfully functioning
in Roman'a. Works relating to rural water supply component would not pre-
sent any design problems.



- 17 -
F. Cost Estimates
4.28      The total project cost, including contingencies but excluding inter-
est during construction, is estimated at Lei 2,610 million (US$130.5 million).
This estimate is net of taxes and is based on March 1976 prices. The foreign
exchange component, which includes both direct and indirect foreign costs, is
estimated at US$41.7 million or 32% of total cost. Interest during construc-
tion and other charges on the proposed loan are estimated at US$10.8 million.
The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are prevalent in
Romania under the system of regulated prices of materials and wages. Cost of
equipment, materials and heifers, which are likely to be procured from foreign
suppliers, has been estimated at the international prices that are likely to
prevail in early 1976. Because detailed engineering has already been carried
out for the irrigation component, which constitutes about 75% of the project
cost, physical contingencies have been provided at 7-1/2%. Price contingencies
on foreign exchange cost are based on annual increases of 8% in 1977 to 1979,
and 7% after 1979. Due to near zero inflation in Romania, price contingencies
on local costs are provided at 1%. Project's cost estimate is summarized in
the table below; details are in Annex 7, Table 1.



- 18-
Item                            Lei Million /1             US$ Million Li      % Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Irrigation Component
Irrigation Works        1,048.5   354.2   1,402.7   52.4   17.7    70.1          25
Land Compensation           12.2     -         12.2    0.6    -         0.6       -
Equipment                   91.5    30.5      122.0    4.6    1.5       6.1      25
Engineering and
Administration            125.5     -        125.5    6.3    -         6.3       -
Subtotal              1,277.7   384.7   1,662.4   63.9   19.2    83.1         23
Agricultural Component
Vineyard                    30.7     3.3       34.0    1.6    0.1       1.7      11
Orchard                     15.2     1.6       16.8    0.8    0.1       0.9      10
Silo                       43.9      4.7       48.6    2.2    0.2       2.4      10
Subtotal                 89.8      9.6       99.4    4.6    0.4       5.0      10
Livestock Component
Dairy Units                110.0   226.9      336.9    5.5   11.4    16.9        67
Beef Fattening Units        19.9     1.4       21.3    1.0    0.1       1.1       7
Feedmill                    96.6     9.8      106.4    4.8    0.5       5.3       9
Subtotal                226.5   238.1       464.6   11.3   12.0    23.3        51
Rural Water Supply Component
Civil Works                 12.7     2.3       15.0    0.7    0.1       0.8      15
Engineering and
Administration              0.6     -          0.6    -       -        -         -
Subtotal                 13.3      2.3       15.6    0.7    0.1       0.8      15
Total Project Cost
Base Cost               1,607.3   634.7   2,242.0   80.4   31.7   112.1          28
Physical
Contingencies /2         118.5    33.2       151.7    5.9    1.7       7.6      22
Price Contingencies /3    49.9   165.8        215.7    2.5    8.3    10.8        77
GRAND TOTAL           1,775.7   833.7   2,609.4   88.8   41.7   130.5          32
/1  Discrepancies due to rounding.
/2  Physical contingencies at 7-1/2% for all items except heifers for which
contingency provided in base cost.
/3  Price contingencies compounded at 1% for local costs, and at 8% (1977 to 1979)
and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange costs.



- 19 -
G. Financing
4.29      The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 milion would finance the full
foreign exchange component of US$41.7 million (32% of total project cost);
US$7.5 million of local cost, which is equivalent to about 6% of total cost;
and US$10.8 million of interest and other charges during construction on the
proposed Bank loan. The remaining local cost of US$81.3 million equivalent
(62% of total project cost) would be met by the State budget (38%), BAFI
loans (23%), and constributions of CAPs (1%). The project's financing plan
is summarized below.
-----US$ Million-------    Total as %
Item                              Local  Foreign    Total  of Project Cost
Project Cost
Bank Loan                              7.5    41.7        49.2         38
State Budget                         49.8       -         49.8         38
BAFI Loans                            30.0      -         30.0         23
CAP Contribution                       1.5      -          1.5          1
Subtotal                          88.8    41.7        130.5        100
Interest and Other Charges
During Construction Financed
Under the Bank Loan                    -      10.8        10.8
H.  Implementation Schedule
4.30      The project would be essentially implemented in five years (1976-
1980) in accordance with the schedule in Chart 15361 (R). Only lining of
some of the canals, passing through loess zones, would be carried out in 1981
and 1982 after sufficient prewetting and consequent settlement had taken place
in these reaches. Irrigation would, however, commence in 1979 cropping season
over about 20,600 ha, and in 1981 the full project area would be under irriga-
tion. All other project components would be completed by 1980, except for
the maintenance of the vineyard and the orchard, which would be completed in
1982. Annual schedule of expenditures for the project components is given in
Annex 7, Table 2.



- 20 -
I. Procurement
4.31      Under the Romanian procedures, construction of all civil works is
normally carried out by Romanian agencies, which are fully competent and have
adequate experience of such construction. Also because of regulated wages
and prices of materials, construction costs in Romania are likely to be less
than those which might be bid by international contractors. Therefore, instead
of civil works only procurement of equipment and materials would be financed
under the proposed loan. These items, listed in Annex 8, Table 1, are esti-
mated to cost US$36.3 million (excluding contingencies) and would be procured
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - August 1975". These
include pumping and power equipment (US$16.0 million), construction equipment
(US$6.7 million), asbestos cement pipe (US$5.0 million), portable pipe and
sprinkler equipment (US$7.5 million), and equipment for operation and mainte-
nance of irrigation works (US$1.1 million). During negotiations, this list
was agreed with the Romanian Delegation. Contracts for these equipment and
materials would be advertised internationally and the Romanian manufacturers
would be allowed a 15% preference margin or the applicable customs duty, which-
ever is lower. Romanian laws allow bidding between local and foreign suppliers,
and it is expected that contracts valued at about US$14.5 million (40% of goods
listed at Annex 8, Table 1) would be won by foreign suppliers. In-calf heifers,
costing about US$11.0 million would be procured through solicitation of bids
from suppliers from at least three foreign countries.
4.32      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project procure-
ment would be arranged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines as detailed
in para. 4.31. Of the total procurement of US$49.3 million, consisting of
equipment and materials listed in Annex 8, Table I (US$36.3 million), heifers
(US$11.0 million) and a contingency of US$2.0 million, it is estimated that
contracts valued at about US$26.0 million (52%) would be won by the foreign
suppliers.
J. Disbursements
4.33      The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million would be disbursed, net
of taxes over five years as follows:
(a)  Equipmient, Materials and    -   100% of foreign expenditures or
Spare Parts for Irrigation         100% of local expenditures ex-
Works (US$28.7 million)            factory.
(b)  Imported Heifers               -   100% of foreign expenditures
(US$11.0 million)



- 21 -
(c)  Disbursements under BAFI    -   25% of amounts disbursed by the
loans other than for              Borrower.
Heifers
(US$7.5 million)
(d)  Interest and Other Charges  -   Amounts due.
on the Loan accrued on or
before June 14, 1981
(US$10.8 million)
The remaining US$2.0 million would be unallocated. Supporting documents for
BAFI loans would not be submitted to the Bank for review but should be held
available for the Bank's supervision missions. Disbursements for other items
under the loan would be made against standard documentation. Savings, if any,
could be used to finance additional eligible items needed for the project if
this was found justified by the Bank, otherwise they would be cancelled. Bank
disbursements are expected to be completed prior to June 30, 1981. An esti-
mated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 9.
K. Environment and Health
4.34      The project area is free of endemic diseases like malaria and bil-
harzia.  The project would neither adversely affect the environment nor the
public health; in fact the project would improve the health of about one-half
of the project area's population by providing piped drinking water supply.
Construction of irrigation works, which consist of canals with fluctuating
supplies and piped distribution network, would not promote mosquito breeding
or spread of malaria.



- 22 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      The Borrower.  The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
would be the borrower under the guarantee of the Government of Romania.
BAFI was established, in 1968, as a State-owned credit institution to fi-
nance agricultural production and investment projects. BAFI, therefore,
has the prime responsibility for the development of the agricultural sector.
In addition to functioning as the only source of credit for the agricultural
sector, it also acts as a fiscal agent to the Government in respect of channel-
ing State funds for investments and for collection of revenues due to the
State. Its other duties include financial control and supervision over proj-
ects that are financed either by the State or BAFI. To discharge its respons-
ibilities effectively, BAFI already has adequate legal, financial and admin-
istrative powers.
5.02      The chief executive officer of BAFI is its President, who is
appointed by a State Decree. He is assisted by a Senior Vice-President and
a Vice-President. BAFI's Board of Directors consists of the President, the
two Vice-Presidents, and representatives of various departments of this Bank,
certain ministries, and of other related organizations. BAFI has six de-
partments, of which three are operationai and the other three deal with plan-
ning, accounting and administration activities. BAFI has 39 branches--one
branch in each district, and 100 sub-branches.
5.03      BAFI has a statutory capital of Lei 800 million (US$40 million)
and a reserve fund representing accumulations of net profits of Lei 800 mil-
lion (US$40 million). Its other sources of funds are the State budget, short-
term borrowings from the National Bank of Romania and deposits from socialist
organizations. BAFI pays interest of 1.5% per annum on borrowings from the
National Bank and on deposits. BAFI would meet the project expenditures from
a special project account, which would receive funds from the annual State
budgets and through disbursements from the proposed Bank loan.
Implementing Agencies
5.04      The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry.  The overall respons-
ibility for planning, construction, operation and maintenance of all project
works, except works relating to power supply, would rest with M4AIA. The
Ministry of Electrical Energy would have the responsibility for power supply
works. The general organization of MAIA is illustrated in Chart 15362 and
its departments responsible for project implementation are described below.
5.05      Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction.  The
responsibility for planning, design and construction of irrigation works
would rest with DIFCA. The planning and design of the irrigation works would



- 23 -
be carried out by ISPIF. The construction of irrigation works would be car-
ried out by a regional branch of TCIF, which is responsible for such construc-
tion in this area. Both ISPIF and TCIF are separate units of DIFCA. Construc-
tion of works would be supervised by the concerned Group for Supervising the
Investments (GSI), another organizational unit of DIFCA. All the above units
of DIFCA are adequately staffed and have the required experience to implement
the irrigation works in an acceptable manner.
5.06      Directorate General of Planning and Development.  All works relating
to the agricultural, livestock and rural water supply components of the project
would be implemented by DGPD under MAIA. Construction of the grain silo and
the feedmill would be entrusted to the Construction Trust for Industrial Works,
and minor works would be handled by the construction enterprise responsible for
carrying out such works in Constanta district. These organizations have the
experience of constructing similar works and, therefore, would be abLe to
carry out the project works in a satisfactory manner.
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.07       Irrigation Works.  The irrigation works to be constructed under
the project, except for power supply works, on-farm equipment and farm
machinery, would be operated and maintained by CELIF, whhich is also under
MAIA. CELIF operates through its enterprises (IELIF), which are based in
districts. The power supply works would be maintained by the Ministry of
Electrical Energy. The on-farm equipment which would belong to the CAPs
and IASs, would be operated and maintained by these entities. Farm machinery,
which would be passed on to the concerned substations of Constanta SIIA, and
IASs, would be operated and maintained by them. The IELIF enterprise, which
would be responsible to operate and maintain the Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation
System, would establish three units for this purpose. Each unit would be
responsible for about 20,000 to 25,000 ha, and would be equipped with adequate
facilities and machinery to maintain the irrigation system in proper working
order.
5.08      The annual operation and maintenance cost of the irrigation works
(Annex 7, Table 3) is estimated at Lei 110.0 million (US$5.5 million), of
which the cost of electrical energy at Lei 0.3 per kwh would be about Lei 68.0
million (US$3.4 million).
5.09      Other Works.  All works other than irrigation would be owned by
either the cooperatives or the State enterprises and, therefore, would be
operated and maintained by them with assistance from the respective technical
unit of MAIA.



- 24 -
C. Supporting Agricultural Services
5.10      Adequate arrangements exist, within the Ministry and its Depart-
ments, to supply seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to the cooperatives and
State enterprises in the project area. Their production plans are in accord
with the State plan and, therefore, the concerned Departments are fully aware
of their input needs following introduction of irrigation. No special mea-
sures are required to be taken to assure the proper supply of inputs.
5.11      Arrangements to extend credit to farm entities for production and
for transportation and marketing facilities are also satisfactory. BAFI
would continue to be the major source of all credit for agriculture, in-
cluding short-term production credit.
D. Recovery of Project Costs
5.12      Irrigation Component.  With assistance from the Bank, under the pro-
posed loan, Government would directly finance all investments under the irri-
gation component, except for the on-farm investments on CAPs and IASs, and
farm machinery. The on-farm investments would be financed under BAFI loans;
loans to CAPs would be recovered through repayments (para. 3.20) and those to
IASs, including any loan for farm machinery, would be recouped fully through
the Depreciation Fund (Annex 2) maintained by BAFI. Farm machinery loans to
SMAs would be fully recovered through repayments, as the SMAs recoup the de-
preciation costs from the beneficiary CAPs through custom rates. The remain-
ing investment cost and the operation and maintenance cost would be apportion-
ed between the beneficiary farm entities (CAPs and IASs) in the ratio of their
areas served by the irrigation system.
5.13      According to the existing procedures in Romania, the only direct
recovery of project cost is through nominal water charges (Annex 10), which
average about Lei 220 (US$11.0) per ha. Water charges from project benefi-
ciaries would result in a cost recovery index of about 5% 1/ and benefit and
rent recovery indices of about 10% and 20% respectively. The low water charge
would not result in wasteful use of irrigation water by the beneficiaries be-
cause the amount and timing of irrigation water use is controlled by the Gov-
ernment. In addition to water charges, the existing indirect mechanisms through
which the Government would recover project costs include (a) IASs'contribution
to the Depreciation Fund; (b) annual profits made by the IASs on their opera-
tions, a part of which is credited to the State Treasury (Annex 2); (c) profits
1/   Apparently low because the formula is based on direct recovery only,
which is unimportant mechanism of cost recovery in the Romanian economic
system.



- 25 -
made by the State through the export of some tradeable commodities produced
in the project area; and (d) the incremental income tax on increased personal
income of CAP members. The present value of all anticipated direct and in-
direct collections from the beneficiaries, in constant prices and discounted
at 10%, is estimated at Lei 1,490.0 million (US$74.5 million). This would
recover, over the component's assumed life of 40 years, its full operation and
maintenance cost and about 55% of the investment cost at 3% interest. Such a
collection would imply a direct and indirect cost recovery index of about 75%.
It would also imply a net subsidy of about Lei 520.0 million (US$26 million),
which would be entirely to the account of the CAPs. Direct and indirect
revenues that would accrue to the State from the IASs would exceed the invest-
ment and the operation and maintenance costs chargeable to the IASs by Lei
310.0 million (US$15.5 million). This surplus would reduce Government sub-
sidy to the CAPs from Lei 830.0 million (US$41.5 million) to Lei 520.0 million
(US$26.0 million). The subsidy to CAPs is fully justified (a) as members of
the CAPs in the project area are among the poverty target group (para. 2.01);
and (b) their incremental income, as a result of the project, would not mate-
rially shift their income status relative to the national average. Any addi-
tional water charge, therefore, is not justified and not recommended.
5.14      Other Components.  Project components other than irrigation would
be financed through BAFI loans, which would be recovered from the beneficiary
entities in accordance with the agreed terms of the BAFI loans (Annex 2).
Any Government investments in the facilities to be owned by the IASs and to
be financed from the State budget, would be recovered through the Deprecia-
tion Fund maintained by BAFI.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.15      BAFI's accounts are subject to two audits--a continuous audit by
internal auditors appointed by the Ministry of Finance, and an annual audit
by inspectors of the Court of Superior Control. The Court, which reports
directly to the President, is responsible for controlling transactions by
the main State bodies such as the banks and the ministries. The existing
accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are quite strict and are satis-
factory.
5.16      BAFI will keep separate accounts for all project expenditures in-
cluding those related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan. These accounts will be audited according to the
existing procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
a report on project accounts, submitted to an independent audit conducted
by the Ministry of Finance, will be submitted to the Bank annually within
five months of the close of the Romanian fiscal year.



- 26 -
F. Monitoring
5.17      In order to measure project implementation against the proposed
schedule, and project performance, following completion of construction,
against project benefits foreseen during appraisal, BAFI would submit neces-
sary information through periodic reports to the Bank. This would include
data on progress of construction of all physical facilities under various
project components; progress in the procurement of equipment, materials and
heifers; and data on project expenditures and BAFI loans. Information on
area brought under irrigation, cropping pattern, crop yield and output;
production and income from the dairy and beef fattening units; and relevant
data on operation and maintenance cost of irrigation facilities as well as
on recovery (both direct and indirect) of project costs would be submitted
annually. During negotiations, it was agreed that the above-stated informa-
tion would be furnished to the Bank.



- 27 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
Crop
6.01      Without the project, rainfed cultivation would continue in the proj-
ect area and there would be practically no change in crop yields as their cur-
rent level is as high as can be achieved without irrigation. There would be,
however, some shift in the cropping pattern, as illustrated in the table in
para. 6.03, in accordance with the State plan to increase the production of
maize for livestock production.
6.02      After the project, the cropped area would increase by 11,100 ha as
a result of a 17% increase in cropping intensity. The cropping pattern would
also alter following introduction of irrigation; the major changes would be a
reduction of 19,400 ha (61%) under wheat and barley; and of 3,500 ha (43%)
under sunflower; and an increase of 17,600 ha (125%) under maize, of 5,500 ha
under soybean and sugar beet, and of 800 ha under vineyards and orchards.
Average yields of most crops would increase by 100% to 110% except for maize,
sugar beet and alfalfa for which the increase would amount to 240%, 180% and
190% respectively. Most of the yield increases would be due to the optimum
and secure water supply and increased input of fertilizers. Based on results
of experiments and actual achievements in the field under irrigation, the
yield increases are expected to develop over four years, following introduc-
tion of irrigation, at the rates of 30%, 70%, 90% and 100%.
6.03      Presvnt, future without and with project cropping patterns, yields
and production are compared in Annex 1, Table 2; and summarized beLow. Full
development is expected to be achieved by 1984 (Anney 11, Table 2), four
years after all area ha; been brought under irrigation.



- 28 -
Crop                               Cropped Area                   Production
Future   Future   Future   Future
Without   With    Without   With    Incre-
Present  Project  Project  Project  Project  mental
'--------(000 ha)--------  -------('000 tons)------
Wheat                         29.6      24.8      11.4      52.1     51.3       (0.8)
Maize                         14.1      15.8      31.7     36.3    253.6       217.3
Barley                         2.0       2.1       0.8      4.4       3.6       (0.8)
Sunflower                      8.1       6.7       4.6      8.0      11.5        3.5
Soybean                        1.2       4.5       2.9      4.5       7.2        2.7
Sugar beet                     0.1       0.9       3.8     16.0    190.0       174.0
Industrial Crops /1            0.5        -         -         -        -          _
Potato                         0.1        -        0.9        -      14.4       14.4
Vegetables /2                  0.4        -        0.9        -      18.0       18.0
Fruits /3                      0.3       0.3       0.6       1.3      6.2        4.9
Grapes                         0.2       0.3       0.7       1.5      8.4        6.9
Alfalfa (H4y)                  2.3       5.1       6.3      17.3     62.3       45.0
Silage Maize /4                5.9       4.3      11.3     18.0    395.5       322.4
Total                    64.8     64.8      75.9
Gross Value /5 (Lei million)                         170.0    650.0       480.0
/1   Include linseed and tobacco.
/2   Mainly tomato, green pepper, cabbage, squash.
/3   Mainly apricot, plum, peach, sweet and sour cherry.
/4   Includes other fodders.
/5   At official 1975 domestic prices.
In addition to the above production, there would be about 560,000 tons of
stalks and crop refuse, some of which would be fed to livestock and the rest
plowed in as fertilizer. The gross value of production (at official 1975
domestic prices) would increase from about Lei 170 million (USS8.5 million),
in future without the project, to Lei 650 million (US$32.5 miLlion) with
project or by 280%.
Livestock and Feed
6.04      At full developnent, by 1984, the eleven dairy units would annually
produce about 29 million liters of milk, provide about 1,570 in-calf heifers of
superior dairy merit to other dairy units and supply about 3,400 male calves to
beef fattening units and breeding farms. In addition, about 800 tons (live-
weight) of neat would be available from cull cows and heifers (Annex It, Table
3). At full development, by 1981, the two beef fattening units would annually
produce about 2,000 tons (liveweight) of meat. Botlh the dairy and beef units
would also yield about 210,000 tons of manure, which would be sold to agricul-
tural farms.



- 29 -
6.05      The feedmill would annually produce about 140,000 tons of concen-
trates for livestock including poultry. The silo at Baneasa and the silo
attached to the feedmill at Negru Voda would provide storage facilities to
over 180,000 tons of grain annually.
B. Markets
6.06      General.  Despite substantial production increases in the project
area, the incremental outputs would represent only minor proportions of the
national production. For example, the incremental production of maize (217,000
tons) and sugar beet (174,000 tons) would hardly amount to 1.5% and 1.8% of the
national production in 1980. Incremental production of sunflower, vegetables,
fruit and grapes would be about 0.3% of the respective expected production of
these commodities in 1980. Similarly, beef and milk quantities would be less
than one-half of 1% of their national production in 1980. These incremental
outputs would have little or no influence on the domestic market and on the
international market. No marketing problems, therefore, are foreseen for the
project's incremental production.
6.07      Maize.  About one-half (110,000 tons) of the incremental output
of maize would be supplied to the feedmill proposed under the project, and
the remaining is expected to be exported. Currently, Romania exports over
390,000 tons of maize annually; about 70% to France, United Kingdom, Federal
Republic of Germany, Italy and Austria. So far, USSR and East European mar-
kets have absorbed most of the remaining 30% of Romania's exports, but the
prospects of expanding the export to these countries are good as this re-
gion would be expected to develop by 1980 an estimated annual grain deficit
of about 2 billion tons.
6.08      Oilseed.  The domestic and export markets for soybean and sunflower
are attractive and are expected to continue so in the foreseeable future. Pre-
sently, Romania imports about 100,000 tons of oilcake, and exports about
130,000 tons of vegetable oil per year. Project output would yield about 4,000
tons of oilcake, which could substitute only about 4% of annual imports. Fur-
thermore, by 1980 the domestic demand for edible oil is expected to increase
by about 25% and the domestic market could easily absorb the incremental output
of about 2,000 tons of oil. It is, however, expected that due to the need to
earn more convertible foreign exchange, the project output of oil might be
exported. In general, the market outlook for vegetable oil is favorable des-
pite the anticipated decline in the record high prices of 1974.
6.09      Sugar.  Romania is a net exporter of about 80,000 tons of sugar an-
nually. The additional output of sugar beet in the project area would yield
about 24,000 tons of sugar 1/, which would be equivalent to about 30% of the
1/   Government has decided to build a sugar factory within the project area
during the 1976-80 plan period.



- 30 -
net exports. The incremental output is expected to be used domestically to
satisfy the growing demand, which is expected to increase by about 80,000
tons by 1980.
6.10      Vegetables, Fruits and Grapes.  Romania is a net exporter of vege-
tables, fruits and grapes, mainly to the East European countries and USSR.
These markets are also the most attractive to expand exports. Project out-
put of these commodities would represent no more than 10% to 15% of annual ex-
ports in recent years of tomatoes and potatoes; 5% of fruits; and 10% of
grapes and wine. Although the prospects for expanding export of these com-
modities to the traditional markets are favorable, the domestic market has
enough flexibility to absorb the incremental output; by 1980, the demand
for vegetables is expected to increase by 60% and for fruits and grapes by
40%. The incremental supplies from the project area can satisfy only a part
of this additional demand.
6.11      Livestock and Livestock Products.  During 1976-1990, the per capita
consumption of meat and milk in Romania is expected to increase by 60% and 40%
respectively. A substantial proportion of the milk production from the proj-
ect's dairy units would be used to satisfy this growing demand. Because of
the domestic consumers' preference for pork, a large portion of the beef pro-
duction is likely to be exported. Since 1965, Romania has succeeded in in-
creasing the export of cattle to convertible currency countries by over 300%.
Outlook for further expansion of exports, especially to the Middle East, is
promising. Of the present customers, Italy, Federal Republic of Germany and
United Kingdom account for more than 90% of the current annual export of
140,000 head of cattle and about 40,000 tons of meat.
6.12      Feed.  About 10,000 tons of feeds (concentrates) processed at the
feedmill, 26,000 tons of alfalfa hay and 15,000 tons of silage maize would be
used by the livestock component of the project. The remaining 130,000 tons
of feeds and the balance incremental outputs of alfalfa (20,000 tons) and sil-
age maize (350,000 tons) would be used by various livestock farms inside and
outside the project area. There is a current deficit of 60,000 tons of pro-
cessed feeds in the region and this is expected to grow to more than 110,000
tons in the next few years when more livestock projects are implemented in
adjacent areas.
C. Price
6.13      Because of the nature of economic management in Romania, market
forces have little or no influence in determining domestic prices. Prices
are fixed by Government and rarely vary in response to changes in demand and
supply (internal or external). The present official domestic prices, which
are considerably lower than the prices of comparable commodities elsewhere,
have not changed significantly since the mid 1960's, and the project outputs
are not expected to alter them. For these reasons, two sets of prices have



- 31 -
been used to evaluate the project benefits--the official domestic prices for
both inputs and outputs in the financial analysis; prices derived from IBRD's
forecast of world prices for 1975-1980 for the tradeable commodities and the
official domestic prices for the non-tradeables in the economic analysis.
These prices are given in Annex 3.
D. Producer Income
6.14      Two farm budgets have been prepared to indicate the estimated in-
crease in farm incomes due to the project--both are for cooperatives. One
(CAP I, located near Visoara) represents a relatively high income and the other
(CAP II, located near Cobadin) a low income cooperative. The future without
project incomes of these cooperatives, which are assumed to be the same as
at present, are based on their actual performance during a normal production
year. The farm budgets are summarized below; their details and the assump-
tions made in their preparation are given in Annex 10.



- 32 -
Item                                             CAP I                       CAP II
Without      With            Without      With
Project    Project           Project    Proiect
Basic Data
Cropped Area (ha)                        3,170       3,700            3,650       4,240
Active Members                             545         545              957         957
Cropped Area per Member (ha)                 5.8         6.8              3.8         4.4
Income from Cooperative Farming                  -----(000 Lei)-______
Gross Value of Production                7,960      25,570            9,930      28,150
Production Costs                         4,960       8,310            6,260       9,480
Water Charges                              -           810              -           930
Total Farm Income                      3_000     16,450             3.670      17,740
Development Fund                           660       3,620L1            510       2,300<1
Pension Fund                               450       2,630              550       2,300
Entertainment Fund                          10          70                10         50
Emergency Fund                              50         260               60         600
Net Income to Members                  1,830       9,870            2,540      12,490
Net Income per Member (Lei)            3,360      18,110            2,650      13,050
Incremental Income per Member (Lei)              14,750                        10,400
Percent Increase                                     440%                         390%
Other Income-2                            --------------------(Lei)-------------------
Individual Plots                         1,700       1,700            2,300       2,300
Part-time Employment                     9 000       2,400            9,000       2,400
Total per Family                      10_700       4 100           11,300      _42700
Total per Member                       5,350    2_050              _5650        2,350
Total Income
Farm Income per Member                   3,360      18,110            2,650      13,050
Other Income per Member                  5,350       2,050            5,650       2,350
Total                                  8          20,160            8,300      15L400
Incremental Income per Member                     11,450                        7,100
Percent Increase                                     131%                           86%
Total Income Per Capita3 (Lei)         3,960       9,160            3,770       7,000
Total Income Per Capita (US$)            198         458              189         350
/i  Includes interest on BAFI loans.
T2 At Vwo active cooperative members per family.
/3 At 4.4 persons per family.



- 33 -
6.15      The two farm budgets indicate that the project would raise the total
income of a cooperative member by about 110% (average of 131% and 86%) from
US$425 to US$890 or on a per capita basis from US$190 to US$400. Referring to
CAP I, the net income per member from cooperative farming would increase by
440% from Lei 3,360 (US$168) to Lei 18,110 (US$905). Income from other sources
(farming operations on member's individual plot of land and part-time employ-
ment), which constitutes about 60% of the member's total income before the proj-
ect, would reduce by 62% from Lei 5,350 (US$268) to Lei 2,050 (US$103). The
net result would, therefore, be to increase his total income by 131% from
Lei 8,710 (US$436) to Lei 20,160 (US$1,008). For CAP II, the corresponding
figures are: an increase of 390% in the farming income, a decrease of 42% in
income from other sources, and an overall income increase of 86% from Lei 8,300
(US$415) to Lei 15,400 (US$770).
6.16      The net income from the IAS enterprises would also increase by about
the same proportion, but this increase is not expected to influence the sala-
ries of State farm workers, as they would continue to be paid in accord-
ance with the national wage rates.
E. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.17      Main Benefits.  The major quantifiable economic benefits from the
project would be the significant increases in production of crops, milk, meat
and livestock feed. The incremental output of these commodities would raise
the national income by about Lei 400.0 million (US$20.0 million), of which
Lei 320.0 million (US$16.0 million) would be from crop production and the
balance from milk, meat and feed production. A substantial part of the proj-
ect's production (mainly maize, sugar, fruits, vegetables and meat) is ex-
pected to be exported, which would annually earn about US$10.0 million in for-
eign exchange. The unquantifiable benefits include the linkage effects,
resulting from the increased and stable agricultural production, in the in-
dustrial and other sectors; the project's contribution towards improvement
of the national dairy herd through crossbreeding; and improvement in the
health of about one-half of the project population due to better water sup-
ply facilities.
6.18      The project would increase the demand for labor, primarily due to
intensification of agriculture and establishment of livestock units. On the
CAPs, this demand would be met by the members of the cooperatives, who cur-
rently seek part-time employment with the State enterprises. Labor produc-
tivity in the CAPs is expected to approximately double. A number of new
jobs would be created on the IASs and the livestock units, which would be
satisfied by adjustment of the regional labor force amongst various sectors.
6.19      Beneficiaries.  Principal beneficiaries of the project would be
about 6,000 members of the cooperatives (a population of about 13,000); their
average current income from all sources is estimated at about US$425 per mem-
ber. This income is equivalent to about US$190 per capita, which is below
the income level defining the poverty target group (para. 2.01). The project



- 34 -
would raise this income by 110% to about US$890 per member, which is equiva-
lent to about US$400 per capita. The rural water supply component would bene-
fit about 15,000 people, which constitute about 50% of the project area's
population.
F. Economic Rate of Return
6.20      The economic rate of return to all project investments is estimated
at 17.4%. The assumptions used and the results of the sensitivity tests are
contained in Annex 11. The ERR for the irrigation component (including vine-
yard and orchard) is computed at 17.9% and for the dairy units, beef fattening
units and the feedmill respectively at 14.2%, 20.2% and 10.8%.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)  upto one-half of the heifers imported under the project
could be used in acceptable dairy units located outside the
project area but within the contiguous southeastern region of
Romania, provided (i) the dairy units within the project area
would receive the imported heifers in preference to other
dairy units until high quality first and second generation
pure-breed offspring of dairy cows imported earlier were
available to replace the heifers imported under the project;
(ii) the imported heifers used in dairy units outside the proj-
ect area would be grouped in lots of no less than 200; and
(iii) prior to the distribution of the imported heifers out-
side the project area, the Bank would have reviewed and agreed
to appraisal reports for those dairy units in which the im-
ported heifers are to be utilized (para. 4.19);
(b)  procurement of (i) equipment, materials and spare parts for
irrigation facilities, listed in Annex 8, Table 1, would be
arranged following international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits - August 1975"; and (ii) heifers
would be arranged through solicitation of bids from suppliers
from at least three foreign countries (paras. 4.31 and 4.32);
(c) a report on project accounts, submitted to an independent
audit conducted by the Ministry of Finance, would be sub-
mitted to the Bank annually within five months of the
close of the Romanian fiscal year (para. 5.16); and



- 35 -
(d) necessary data and information would be furnished to the
Bank, through periodic reports, to measure project imple-
mentation and performance against scheduled targets (para.
5.17).
7.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$60 million to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry, with
the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for a term of 20 years in-
cluding 5 years of grace.
March 29, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Description of Agricultural Component
A. Agriculture
1.        General.  Of the nearly 15.0 million ha agricultural land, which is
63% of Romania's total area of 23.7 million ha, about 9.7 million ha constitute
cropland, 4.5 million ha are under permanent pastures and 0.8 million ha are
covered by vineyards and orchards. Only about 1.2 million ha are currently
irrigated and by 1980 another 0.6 million ha would be under irrigation. Major
crops are maize, wheat, sugar beet, potatoes, sunflower, barley and tobacco.
Alfalfa, silage maize and other fodders are also grown, which together with
natural pastures and processed feeds sustain a livestock population of about
29 million head.
2.        Project Area and Topography.  The project area is located about 150
km southeast of Bucharest (Map IBRD 11880), between the Danube River and the
Bulgarian border. It covers about 110,000 ha of dissected tableland of vary-
ing relief with altitudes ranging from 125 m to 180 m above sea level (also
approximately the Danube water level). A series of steepsided valleys cross
the project area from southeast to northwest, discharging into the Danube River.
About 50,000 ha is relatively flat but undulating, with slopes below 5%; about
15,400 ha has slopes varying between 5% and 10% and the remaining (44,600 ha)
is markedly uneven with slopes exceeding 10%. Only area (65,400 ha) with slopes
less than 10% is considered suitable for irrigation.
3.        Climate.  The climate of the project area is basically continental
with hot summers and cold winters. There is one major weather station at
Adamclisi in the project area, and another station at Medgidia, which is
outside the project area. Long term (30 years) data is available at these
stations. Average of ten years climatic data, observed at these two sta-
tions, is summarized in Table 1.
4.        Soils and Land Classification.  Detailed soil surveys, including
chemical and mechanical analyses, have been carried out and a soils map at
a scale of 1 in 25,000 is available. The soils consist of chernozems of
high agricultural value, which have developed on loess deposits under steppe
conditions. They have a dark, humic A horizon, some 40-50 cms in depth con-
taining 2% to 3% of calcium carbonate. This increases to about 10% at lower
levels transitional to the loess. In texture they are sandy loams, or more
rarely silty loams, of good structure and moderate permeability and water
retention capacity. The pH value is 6.8 to 7.2 in the A horizon, and 7.5 in



ANNEX 1
Page 2
the transitional C horizon. According to the general land capability classif-
ication, about 57,700 ha (88%) belong to Class I, and the remaining 7,700 ha
(12%) to Class. III in which the limitation is slope and liability to erosion.
There are no problems of either soil salinity or land drainage.
5.        Present and Future Land Use and Yields.  In the project area, at
present, all cultivation is rainfed.  Consequently, yields are low despite an
advanced standard of husbandry and management.  Autumn-sown cereals, principally
wheat with barley as a minor crop, occupy one-half of the cultivated area, while
spring-sown maize occupies about 20%.  Industrial crops cover about 15%:  these
are mainly sunflower (13%), soybean with small areas under sugar beet, tobacco
and linseed (2%). Alfalfa and a miscellany of fodder crops including maize
and Sudan grass (cut for green fodder or silage) account for another 13%.  The
remainder (2%) is taken up by vineyards, fruit orchards, vegetables and potatoes.
Current yields of project crops are given in Table 2. In future without the
project, no change is expected in yields but there would be a shift in the crop-
ping pattern involving an increase in areas under maize, soybean, sugar beet,
alfalfa and silage maize at the expense of wheat, sunflower, industrial and
fodder crops, in pursuance of Government policy to increase the production of
maize for livestock.
6.        With the project, the cropping pattern would further alter; the major
change being diversion of about 15,000 ha from wheat and barley to maize pro-
duction. Also as a result of irrigation, cropping intensity would increase
from 100% (without the project) to about 117%. Most of the additional area
would be taken up by fodder crops. The three cropping patterns, yields and
production figures are given in Table 2.
7.        The yield of various project crops would increase significantly with
the project because of: (a) timely and assured water availability justifying
higher level and improved quality of inputs, and (b) additional availability
of land preparation and other farm equipment and implements. Following intro-
duction of irrigation, yields are expected to increase over about four years
by increments of 30%, 40%, 20% and 10%. The adopted yield figures are signif-
icantly lower than those actually achieved under project conditions at the
research and demonstration farms. Maize yield, for example, at the Valul Lui
Traian research station averages 12.0 tons/ha, against a yield of 8.0 tons/ha
assumed under the project. The present yield, under rainfed cultivation,
averages about 2.3 tons/ha.
Farm Inputs
8.        Labor and Mechanization.  Land preparation is completely mecha-
nized, while seeding, fertilizing, spraying and harvesting operations are
mechanized to a considerable degree on the State farms and to a lesser de-
gree on the cooperative farms. Again the degree of mechanization varies



ANNEX 1
Page 3
with the crop. Manual labor is mostly employed for weeding, with occasional
use for spraying, harvesting and loading and unloading of fertilizers and har-
vested crops. The project area is served by three Mechanization Substations
of Constanta Agricultural Mechanization Enterprise (SMA). Some of the machinery
available to these Substations need replacement, while in general their num-
bers need to be increased because of (a) increase in intensity of cultivation,
(b) increased application of fertilizers and insecticides, and (c) increased
yields. The requirement of additional machinery and implements is listed in
Annex 8, Table 1.
9.        Seeds.  Improved seeds of almost all project crops are available
in Romania and would be used for the project. Seed development and multi-
plication is a continuous process, which is entrusted to the research stations
and selected State and cooperative farms under a State organization (SEMROM),
which is also responsible for processing of seeds. Testing and certification
of seeds is done under the aegis of the Directorate General of Agriculture.
Seed distribution is arranged by another organization, AGROSEM.
10.       Fertilizers.  In spite of a rapid increase in manufacturing capacity
of fertilizers and an output now approaching 3 million tons per annum, the
application of fertilizers remains low, because of emphasis on export. The
allocation of fertilizers to State farms and cooperatives, based on a formula
which takes into account soils, climatic conditions and cropping patterns, is
reviewed each year by the Ministries of Agriculture and Chemical Industries.
First priority is given to the State farms and second to the irrigated areas
on cooperative farms. Consequently, the rainfed areas generally go short,
and fertilizer application in the project area is not likely to increase
without irrigation. Following introduction of irrigation, due emphasis
would be on increasing crop production. Consequently application of fertili-
zers would be increased to the levels recommended by research, as also its
effective utilization. It is estimated that at full development, requirement
of ammonium nitrate would almost double from 9,700 tons to 18,600 tons;
superphosphate requirement would also approximately double from about 11,000
tons to 20,200 tons. Requirement of fertilizer by crops is given in Table 3.
Annual requirement of Potash would be about 550 tons, as it is applied to
potatoes and sugar beet only.
11.       Plant Protection.  Romania's production of phytopharmaceutical pro-
ducts has increased from about 8,000 tons to about 25,000 tons during the
last decade. It includes a wide range of insecticides, fungicides, herbicides
and pre-emergence weed killers. The current use of these chemicals seems
satisfactory, although the herbicides are generally in short supply. After
the project, the use of these chemicals is expected to increase from the
present I,000 tons to about 1,500 tons.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
B. Description of Agricultural Component
12.       The agricultural component consists of the establishment of a vine-
yard (450 ha) and an orchard (350 ha), and the construction of a 44,000 ton
capacity grain silo. These features are described below.
13.       Vineyard.  The vineyard would grow wine grapes and would be estab-
lished over 450 ha near Chirnogeni (Map IBRD 11880). This location is chosen
because of its proximity to an existing wine factory, which has the spare
capacity to process the incremental grape production. The vines would be
planted, over a period of 4 years (1977 to 1980), at a density of 3,500
plants per hectare. Most of the area would be planted to Pinot variety.
The cost of establishment, including cost of equipment required for the
vineyard, is estimated at Lei 75,500 (US$3,800) per hectare. This would
include the cost of maintenance of the vineyard up to 1982 (2 years after
last planting).
14.       The vines are expected to yield about 12 tons/ha at full development
(sixth year after planting). In the third year after planting, they would pro-
duce about 25% of the full yield; in the fourth and fifth years, a yield of 70%
and 90% is expected. Development of output, after the establishment of the
vineyard is given in Annex 11, Table 2.
15.       Orchard.  The orchard would also be located near Chirnogeni (Map
IBRD 11880) adjacent to the vineyard. The orchard would be planted in 4 years
(1977 to 1980) and would cover 350 ha, of which about 150 ha would be planted
to apricot and peach; 115 ha to plum; 45 ha to sweet cherry and 40 ha to sour
cherry. The density of these trees would vary from 300 to 500 per hectare
according to the fruit. The cost of establishment, including cost of equip-
ment and the cost of maintenance of the orchard up to 1982 (2 years after last
planting), is estimated at Lei 48,000 (US$2,400) per hectare.
16.       The fruit trees are expected to come into bearing in the third or
fourth year after planting. Full yield would be achieved in the seventh or
eighth year; it is expected to be 20% to 25% in the fourth year; 50% to 60% in
the fifth year; 75% to 80% in the sixth year; 90% to 100% in the seventh year
and full in the eighth year. At full development apricots and peaches are
expected to bear 10 tons/ha; plums 9 tons/ha and cherries 8 tons/ ha. Develop-
ment of fruit output is given in Annex 11, Table 2.
17.       Silo.  The grain silo would be located near Baneasa (Map IBRD 11880)
and would have a capacity of 44,000 tons. Access is provided by the Bucharest-
Calarasi-Constanta highway. The reinforced concrete bins would be 6.5 m in
diameter and their height would be about 30 m. Conveyor belts would be pro-
vided under the bins. An open air drying station would be a part of the silo.
The silo would be used for storage of wheat, maize and barley. The maximum
receiving and drying capacity would be 240 tons per hour.
18.       The grain silo at Baneasa would resolve the problem of lack of grain
storage capacity in the region. It is estimated that about 80,000 tons of
cereals would be handled by this silo every year, of which about 75% would be



ANNEX 1
Page 5
from the project area. The project production meant for storage at this silo
would be collected at Adamclisi and then transported to Baneasa. Grain from
this silo would be distributed to bakeries and feedmills throughout Constanta
district.
March 29, 1976



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
Annual       Annual
Item                                Jan.       Feb.       Mar.       Apr.       May        June       July       Aug.       Sept.      Oct.       Nov.       Dec.        Total       Average
Adamclisi
Temperature
Maximum (C)                     1.7        5.7        9.7       17.3       22.5       25.9       28.9       28.7       23.7       18.7       12.2         5.5                    16.7
Minimum (C)                    -4.7        1.7        0.5        6.0       11.0       14.2       16.3       16.3       11.8        8.2        4.9       -1.0                      7.1
Average (OC)                    -1.7        1.5        4.3       10.7       16.2       19.6       22.2       21.8       16.8       11.8        6.9        1.8                     11.0
Rainfall (mm)                     44.5       20.2       23.6       29.9       39.0       59.1       39.6       33.2       34.2       27.5       39.5       42.4       432.7
Relative Humidity (%)             85.8       82.5       76.1       71.8       69.5       63.4       63.6       64.0       69.4       70.3       79.6       87.4                     73.6
Wind Velocity (m/sec)              3.4        3.6        4.1        3.4        3.2        2.2        2.6        2.6        2.4        2.8        3.3        3.5                      3.1
Medgidia
Temperature
Maximum ("C)                     2.1        5.6        9.7       16.8       22.2       25.9       28.9       28.7       23.7       18.6       11.8        5.1                     16.6
Minimum (0C)                    -4.9       -1.8        0.4        5.8       11.1       14.2       16.4       16.1       11.9        7.9        4.9        -1.2                     6.7
Average ("C)                    -1.7        1.5        4.3       10.6       16.2       19.8       22.4       19.9       17.1       12.5        8.3        1.7                     11.1
Rainfall (mm)                     42.8       21.4       24.1       25.6       38.6       52.2       58.2       44.0       38.6       31.0       37.6       37.5       451.6
Relative Humidity (7.)            85.6       83.4       77.2       72.3       69.6       68.9       64.9       67.1       71.9       74.0       78.9       78.1                     74.3
Wind Velocity (m/sec)              3.1        3.2        3.3        2.8        2.9        2.1        2.4        2.2        2.3        2.5        3.0         3.2                     2.8
/1 Average of 10 years (1958 to 1964 and 1965 to 1968).
November 1975



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Crop Production
Item                                          Present                      Future Without Project                Future With Project
Area         Yield.L;  Production          Area      Production          Area         Yield    Production
(ha)       (ton/ha)   ('000 tons)          (ha)      ('000 tons)        (ha)        (ton/ha)   ('000 tons)
Wheat                          29,580          2.1          62.1           24,800         52.1           11,400         4.5          51.3
Maize                           14,070          2.3         32.4           15,800         36.3           31,700          8.0        253.6
Barley                          1,990          2.1           4.2            2,100          4.4              800         4.5           3.6
Sunflower                       8,080          1.2           9.7            6,700          8.0           4,600           2.5         11.5
Soybean                         1,200          1.0           1.2            4,500          4.5            2,900         2.5           7.2
Sugar beet                         110        17.8           2.0              900         16.0            3,800        50.0         190.0
Industrial Crops/2                 500         1.4           0.7              -            _-                           -             -
Potato                             100         8.0           0.8              -            -                900        16.0          14.4
Veget bles/3                       400        10.0           4.0              -            -                900         20.0         18.0
Fruit/.4                           320         4.0           1.3              320          1.3              670          9.3          6.2
Grape                              250          5.8          1.5              250          1.5              700         12.0          8.4
Alfalfa (Hay)                    2,300         3.4           7.8            5,130         17.3            6,230         10.0         62.3
Silage Maiz/5                    5,900        17.0         100.3            4,300         73.1           11,300        35.0         395.5
Total                        680                                         64,800                        75,900
/1 These yields also apply to "Future Without Project" production.
/2 Include linseed and tobacco.
/3  Mainly tomato, pepper, cabbage, squash.
14  Mainly apricot, plum, peach, sweet and sour cherry.                                                                                           > z
/5  Includes other fodder crops.                                                                                                                  O X
November 1975



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Fertilizer Requirements
Item                         Present (Without Project)                              With Project
Ammonium Nitrate         Superphosphate          Ammonium Nitrate         Superphosphate
Unit       Total       Unit         Tota.l      Unit         Total      Unit         Total
(kg/ha)    (tons)      (kg/ha)      (tons)      (kg/ha)     (tons)      (kg/ha)      (tons)
Wheat                  150        4,445        130        3,585        225         2,565        200         2,280
Maize                  180        2,540        200        2,820        240         7,610        300         9,510
Barley                  80          160        100          200        150           120        150           120
Sunflower              130        1,055       400         3,240        220         1,010        400         1,840
Soybean                100          120        100          120        125           360        300           870
Sugar beet             400           45       340            35        600         2,280        500         1,900
Potato                 150           15        250           25        240           215        300           270
Vegetables             200           85        250          110        600           540        500           450
Fruit                  100           30       400           130        200           130        400           260
Grape                  100           25       400           100        200           140        400           280
Alfalfa                 10           25        320          735         40           255        380         2,395
Silage Maize           200        1,180          -             -       300         3,390          -             -
Total                           9,725                  11,100                   18,615                  20,175
November 1975
a- tT



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ROMAN IA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production Organizations and Investment Financing
A. Background
1.        In pre-World War II Romania, a large portion of the agricultural land
was owned by landlords and the church, but was cultivated by tenants. There
were also a number of peasants who owned and cultivated their small farms. In
1921, an attempt was made to limit ownership to a maximum of 300 ha per family,
but the pattern of land ownership and production remained virtually unchanged
until 1945.
2.        The transformation of agricultural land ownership and production from
pre-war Romania to the present was achieved in three phases during 1945-1962.
The first phase (1945-48) of agricultural reform aimed at establishing a small-
scale peasant-oriented farm structure. About 1.6 million ha belonging to land-
lords and the church were expropriated; 70% were distributed among about 0.9
million agricultural workers and small farmers and the remaining, combined with
existing government owned land, was used to establish the initial State Agri-
cultural Enterprises (IASs). At the same time, medium and large farms were
discouraged through the selective use of quotas and prices.
3.        The second phase (1949-1958) involved a move towards large-scale
farming through collectivization of small farms and expansion of state enter-
prises. The farmers were strongly encouraged through pricing mechanisms to
join the collectives, but this was not very successful as the farmers did not
want to lose title to land and were not accustomed to organized group produc-
tion. Consequently, Agricultural Associations were formed in early 1950s, in
which participating farmers pooled their lands without losing titles and were
paid according to their contribution to production. Despite these efforts,
about 30% of the agricultural or 45% of the arable lands were still operated
individually in 1958.
4.        The final drive into collectivization was completed during 1959-62
through determined Government efforts. During this phase, private farms and
Agricultural Associations were merged into what are presently known as
Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAPs).
5.        Since 1962, the structure of agricultural farms has been further
consolidated by reducing the number of farming enterprises. Presently there
are about 4,500 CAPs in Romania, which consist of about 9.0 million ha (75%)
of cropland. About 3.5 million families constitute the membership of these
cooperatives. The CAP farms produce about 60% of all cereals, 70% of oil-
seeds, 40% of potatoes and almost all of the sugar beet. The project area



ANNEX 2
Page 2
contains 32 CAPs with a total area of 45,900 ha (70% of total) and an active
membership of about 6,000. Size of these farms varies from 600 ha to 4,000
ha with an average of about 1,400 ha.
6.        The present number of IAS farms in Romania is 360, which contain
about 4.5 million ha (30%) of agricultural land or 2.0 million ha (21%) of
cropland. These employ a total of about 300,000 workers, and produce about
30% of all cereals, 30% of oilseeds, and 10% of potatoes. There are 6 enter-
prises in the project area, which have an area of 19,500 ha (30% of total)
and employ about 2,400 permanent and temporary workers.
7.        About 1.5 million ha (10%) of agricultural land is presently cul-
tivated by about 150,000 individual farming families. Most of this area is
located in the mountainous region and is of marginal quality. These farms
produce about 19% of the total milk production, 19% of eggs, 14% of meat and
15% potatoes. There are no private farms in the project area.
8.        Members of CAPs are allowed to retain small plots of cooperative land,
usually not exceeding 1,500 m2 per active member, for their personal use. Pro-
duction on such plots is intensive with much higher yields per unit area. In
the project area, such plots total to about 500 ha; only 175 ha of which can be
included in the area to be irrigated.
9.        Agricultural production organizations are still evolving.  As eco-
nomic activities in agriculture become more complex, the size and nature of
operations change and resource needs increase. Some CAPs have already started
forming Intercooperative Associations in an effort to pool resources for in-
vestments in processing, dairy and beef fattening and in other complex agri-
businesses which require large amounts of capital. and other resources. Joint
ventures among cooperative and State Enterprises are also on the increase.
Such jointly owned and operated agri-businesses are likely to be increasingly
important sources of output with the growth and development of agriculture.
B. Agricultural Production Cooperatives
Organization
10.       The land and assets of a CAP are owned jointly by its members.  The
management of a CAP is the responsibility of its President, one or two Vice
Presidents, a Management Council and the General Assembly. The governing body
of a CAP is its General Assembly, which consists of all working adults in the
CAP. The General Assembly meets quarterly and is responsible for drafting the
production, investment and financial plans; for ratifying major contracts with
suppliers, buyers, mechanization enterprises, etc.; and for deciding the alloc-
ation of income. A CAP's President is elected by its General Assembly for a
two year term, whose appointment is subject to approval of the district's
General Director for Agriculture. The General Assembly also elects the rep-
resentatives of the technicians and the members to the CAP's Management Council
and ratifies the President's choices for chiefs of farms within the CAP and
its chief economist.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       The Management Council is the executive body of the CAP which is re-
sponsible for coordinating the CAP's operations and meets once or twice a
week. Its membership consists of the President and Vice-Presidents (if any)
of the CAP, the chief economist, chiefs of the farms in the CAP and the elected
representatives of the technicians and the members. The President and the
Vice-Presidents conduct the day-to-day operations and are assisted by the
chief economist, who is not only responsible for the preparation of a sound
investment plan but also for the accounting and the financial management of
CAP's affairs. The chiefs of farms are the heads of production units and are
always engineers (agriculturalists). They are assisted by a farm economist in
charge of accounting and financial management of the units and by technicians
in the fields of irrigation and livestock.
12.       CAPs do not own farm machinery or equipment but rely on the services
of state owned and operated Agricultural Mechanization Enterprises (SMAs).
These enterprises are responsible for providing all farm machinery and imple-
ments, to CAPs, whenever required, in return for fixed charges for various
operations, which may be paid either in cash or in kind.
Allocation of Production Income
13.       The net farm income of a CAP (value of total production minus cost of
production excluding labor contributed by members) is allocated between two
funds; the Development Fund, which is about 18% of the net income, and the
Consumption Fund, which is about 82%. These percentages are somewhat flexible.
The Development Fund is a compulsory saving mechanism, under which funds are
set aside for partial financing of future investments on the CAPs. This Fund
is deposited with the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) and earns
1 to 2% interest. In general, about 90% of the Consumption Fund is distri-
buted among the members; about 6% is allocated to social security and 4% to
emergency and entertainment fund. The General Assembly has the power to alter
these percentages to keep the personal incomes of members generally in line
with personal incomes elsewhere in Romania.
C. State Agricultural Enterprises
Organization
14.       IASs are owned by the State and are operated and managed by employees
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAIA). A single enterprise
may consist of several farms; each farm may specialize in producing either
field crops, vegetables, industrial crops, fruit, milk or meat. The chief
executive officer of an IAS is a Director, who is appointed by the General
Director of IASs in the Ministry. He is assisted by the chief engineers of
the farms in the IAS and a chief economist/accountant. Other technicians
required for the farms are included on the staff. The governing body of an
IAS consists of the top management, chiefs of the farms, representatives of
the unions and the Party and elected representatives of the workers. Stor-
age, transport and farm equipment is owned by the IAS; these are maintained
by a Central Service Unit.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       Salaries of the staff of IAS are fixed by law; 80% are paid semi-
monthly or monthly and the remainder at the end of the season (March or April)
provided the planned targets are met. If production exceeds the target, spe-
cial premiums are paid. Salaries vary according to "norms" 11 and skills;
present scales are given below:
Category                                Monthly Wage
(Lei)                (US$)
Director                             3,100 - 4,200           155 - 210
Farm Manager                         2,300 - 3,800           115 - 190
Economist/Accountant                 2,000 - 3,250           100 - 162
Farm Mechanic                        1,976 - 2,964            99 - 148
Technician                           1,380 - 1,800            69 -  90
Clerk                                1,130 - 1,325            56 -  66
Unskilled Worker                     1,020 - 1,425            51 -  71
Distribution of Profits
16.       The profit of an IAS is defined as the gross value of production less
production costs, which include depreciation costs on all capital,investments
in the IAS.  Payments concerning depreciation are made by the IAS to BAFI, who
maintains a special Depreciation Fund, which is used as a source of financing
future investments in the Public Sector.
17.       Normally about 15% of the profit is credited to a Consolidation Fund,
which is used to finance minor on-farm investments on any enterprise under the
Ministry.  About 40% of the profit is allocated to a Risk Insurance Fund, which
is used to meet extraordinary losses. The remaining 45% is credited to the
State budget. Profits in excess of the planned, after payment of labor prem-
ums, are allocated between the Consolidation Fund, the Insurance Fund and the
State budget in the ratio of 25%, 30% and 45% respectively.
D. Investment Financing
18.       Once a project is included in the annual plan, the concerned enter-
prise (a CAP or an IAS) prepares a technical and financial proposal with the
help of staff from BAFI and the concerned General Directorate of Agriculture.
This proposal is normally backed up by detailed studies and designs made by
relevant institutes. After the proposal is approved by the competent author-
ity, it is reviewed by BAFI and a decision to finance the project is taken.
1/   "Norms" refer to the expected volume of work which should be performed
under given conditions, and usually corresponds to a 10-hour day and
a 26-day month.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
19.       Investments in CAPs are financed from the Development Fund (para. 13)
and from BAFI loans. The Fund may finance up to 30% of the costs and the BAFI
loans up to 90%, depending on the project, the financial status of the enter-
prise, etc. Loan repayment periods vary; periods for typical loans are: vine-
yard or orchard 10 years, feedmill 12 years, dairy unit 20 years, on-farm ir-
rigation equipment 25 years. Current interest rates on investment loans vary
from 3% to 4% with penalty rates of up to 5%.
20.       At present most investments on IASs are financed from the State
budget, funds for which are channeled through BAFI; credit financing is of
minor importance. In future, however, credit financing of investments on
IASs is likely to increase. Such lending would also be handled by BAFI.
Interest rates for loans to IASs range from 2% to 4% with penalty rates of
up to 6%.
21.       In the past, preference in allocation of investment funds was given
to IASs because these were considered as the model farm organizations. Due to
CAP's larger share of production and employment, however, Government has recog-
nized that the growth in the agricultural sector depends largely on the devel-
opment of agriculture in the cooperatives and consequently more effort is now
being made to increase investments in the cooperatives.
March 29, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing, Markets and Prices
A. Marketing
Organization and Management
1.        Marketing of agricultural produce in Romania is entrusted to State
owned and operated marketing Centrals. 1/ These Centrals were established in
late 1960's to assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAIA) in
the procurement, storage, processing and distribution of agricultural products.
Unlike other departments of the Ministry, however, the Centrals are independ-
ent economic units with separate but coordinated plans, budgets and accounts.
Presently, there are thirteen Centrals which specialize in marketing specific
commodities such as cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugar, meat, milk, etc.
Each Central has its headquarters in Bucharest and an enterprise in each of
the country's 39 judets (districts). The enterprises are the executing agen-
cies of the Centrals and procure and distribute products through their sub-
units known as collecting centers. 2/
2.        Normally, each Central is headed by a director general who reports
directly to the Minister. He is assisted by directors of commerce/marketing,
economics/accounting and technical matters. The composition of each enter-
prise's administrative personnel is similar to that of the Central, and a chief
engineer, a marketing specialist and an economist or an accountant are normally
on its staff.
3.        The enterprises and their sub-units are well equipped  to faciliate
smooth flow of products without excessive losses. Storage losses for well
dried grains are estimated at about 2% but are higher for perishable commo-
dities. The number of the collecting centers in any region and the market
facilities which are available to them vary depending on the mix and volume
of commodities handled. However, care is taken to allocate collecting centers
among different localities and to provide them with adequate supplies in ac-
cordance with planned production of commodities.
1/   A number of "peasant free markets", which sell produce from individual
plots of CAP members or private farmers, also exist but their importance
is insignificant.
2/   The exception is the Central for sugar which does not have an enterprise
in each district and the collecting centers. This Central owns and
operates 13 sugar refineries. The refineries procure and transport the
raw materials, process them and distribute the final products (sugar,
candies, etc.).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Procurement
4.        All procurements and sales by the marketing enterprises (or Centrals)
are arranged through standardized and legally binding contracts, which are
signed at the beginnning of each year. These contracts specify types, volumes,
prices and places of delivery. Frequency of deliveries vary depending on the
production cycle; livestock products are delivered daily or weekly. The de-
livery plans of contracting farms (CAP or IAS) are evaluated periodically, based
on frequent visits to farms, by experts from the concerned collecting centers
for assessing prospective outputs. This helps the marketing Centrals in review-
ing planned sales for domestic consumption or export.
5.        The CAP and the IASs farms are responsible for the delivery of prod-
ucts to the collecting centers but all costs of transportation are paid by the
Centrals. Each farm is expected to provide its own packaging materials; the
collecting centers reimburse the IAS farms for such materials (about Lei 17 or
US$0.8 per ton for grain) but not the CAP farms, who are allowed to take back
their materials after delivery of products.
Distribution
6.        Normally, the collecting centers distribute the products to different
outlets in accordance with the State plan. These outlets consist of the export
markets, the domestic food processing industry and the retail markets most of
which are owned and operated by the marketing Centrals. Distribution of feed
to the livestock subsector is also their responsibility.
7.        Presently, most marketing Centrals are responsible for the physical
handling of commodities for export, and a few export through other specialized
agencies of MAIA. However, identification of international market prospects
and sale agreements, and planning of international deliveries are responsibil-
ities of the Ministry's export organization (AGROEXPORT), which operates in
collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Trade.
8.        All production plans in Romania are coordinated with expected product
use and its distribution. Since prices are fixed by law and play little or no
role in allocation of outputs, performance of the marketing agencies are limit-
ed to efficient physical handling and distribution of commodities in accord-
ance with the State plan. The Centrals, enterprises and collecting centers are
well staffed and organized, and are provided with the necessary facilities to
allow them to perform their functions properly. They are revenue earning enti-
ties and derive their incomes from profits. Their costs of operation, retained
profit margins and contributions to the State budget are determined in accord-
ance with established Government guidelines. The marketing margins of the
collecting centers amount to about 10 to 15% of purchase prices but this could
vary according to the complexity of processing involved.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B. Markets
9.        Project output could be exported and/or consumed domestically; the
outlook for expansion of both markets is good. It is difficult to determine
how much of the project output would be allocated between foreign and domestic
markets, as the allocation depends on the national production and Government
policy.
Export Markets
10.       Presently, Romania is a net exporter of most of project commodities
and is expected to remain so in the foreseeable future. The country trades
with many nations in Western and Eastern Europe, and in less developed areas.
It has established favorable trade relationships with the European Economic
Community and USA has recently granted it the most favored nation status.
11.       Cereals.  With the project, production of wheat and barley would de-
cline slightly. Output of maize would increase by about 217,000 tons, about
one-half of which could be exported. Romania is a net exporter of maize and
wheat. Annual exports of maize averaged about 390,000 tons or 5% of produc-
tion during the early 1970s. The major traditional importers of Romanian
cereals are UK, France, Federal. Republic of Germany, Italy and Austria. These
countries imported an average of 70% of maize, and 50% of wheat exports from
mid-1960s to early 1970s.  During the same period, USSR imported about 15%
of Romania's maize exports, and lately about 40% of wheat exports. The poten-
tial for expanding the export of cereals to Eastern Europe is particularly
promising because the region is expected to be faced with an estimated annual
grain deficit of about 2 billion tons by 1980.
12.       Oilseeds.  Of late, the world market for oilseeds and their products
has been very attractive and it is expected that it would continue to be favor-
able in the foreseeable future. Oilseed cake is an important source of animal
feed and its demand, particularly for the sunflower and soybean cake, is ex-
pected to increase in step with the world's growing livestock population.
The prospects for expansion of its export to USSR and East European countries
is quite promising. Presently, Romanian exports of oilseeds are insignificant
and the country imports about 100,000 tons of oilcake per year. Project outputs
could substitute for about 4% of oilcake imports and could expand export of oil
by about 2,000 tons.
13.       Sugar.  Romania is a net exporter of sugar and sugar products.  Ex-
ports increased from 37,000 tons in 1965 to 159,000 tons in 1972 while imports
declined from 90,000 tons to 75,000 tons during the same period. The primary
export markets include UK, France and Federal Republic of Germany, which col-
lectively account for an average of 70% of exports. Yugoslavia was also an
important market. Construction of a sugar factory, to be located within the
project area, is to be completed prior to 1985. The project output of about
24,000 tons of sugar is expected to be used domestically but it could also be
exported.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
14.       Fruits and Vegetables.  East European countries and USSR and Federal
Republic of Germany are the important traditional outlets for Romania's export
of fruits and vegetables. Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and USSR
account for more than 50% of Romanian exports of fruits, tomatoes and potatoes.
From mid 1960's to early 1970's, annual volume of exports of fresh and canned
vegetables increased from 170,000 tons to over 350,000 tons, while export of
fruits decreased from 142,000 tons to 125,000 tons. Romania's proximity to the
traditional markets, combined with improving market facilities and increasing
demands, point towards possibilities for expanding exports of fresh and pro-
cessed fruits and vegetables. In the short run, however, project output of these
commodities is likely to be consumed domestically.
15.       Livestock and Livestock Products.  Project output of beef cattle would
be exported and that of milk would be consumed domestically. Recently, Romania
has been exporting annually about 140,000 head of beef cattle, over 50,000 tons
of meat and meat products, about 10,000 tons of butter and about 8,000 tons
of cheese. About 90% of cattle and 40% of meat and meat products were exported
to Italy. Oher markets included Federal Republic of Germany, UK, Czechoslovakia,
USSR and Libya. The world market outlook is favorable and Romania could easily
expand exports to these countries and to additional markets in the Middle East.
Domestic Markets
16.       About one-half of the incremental output of maize is expected to be
used as livestock feed. The additional output of sugar, fruits and vegetables
and milk is likely to be utilized within the country to satisfy a growing
demand.
17.       Romania's per capita protein intake and consumption of meat is
among the lowest in East Europe. Per capita milk consumption, although the
highest in the region, is quite low by West European standards. Therefore,
the potential for increasing per capita consumption of income elastic foods
(such as livestock products) is great and as the economy develops, consumption
of these commodities is expected to rise.
18.       According to the Party's Directives for Social and Economic Develop-
ment, domestic consumption of agricultural products is expected to increase
substantially by 1990, when real per capita income is anticipated to reach
about US$3,000. Between 1976 and 1990, the per capita consumption of livestock
products is expected to increase by 50%; while consumption of sugar, vegetables,
fruits and edible oils would increase by about 60%. The growth in demand for
livestock products would increase the feed requirements, particularly maize,
barley and fodders. The anticipated project output of silage maize, alfalfa hay
and other feed would be mostly utilized by the fast growing livestock subsector,
of which the dairy and beef fattening units of the project would be amongst the
important consumers.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
C. Prices
Domestic Prices
19.       Because of the system of economic management in Romania, market
forces have little or no influence in determining domestic prices. Prices are
fixed by the Government and vary according to quality of products and in some
instances according to the delivery dates. Domestic prices reflect the cost
of production plus a pre-determined "profit" margin. Prices of all commodi-
ties, which are low when compared with prices of comparable products in other
countries, reflect low prices of inputs including labor.
20.       The official domestic prices of project commodities, which have been
used for financial analysis, are shown in Table 1. Prices of oilseeds are
uniform throughout Romania, while those of cereals are uniform for IAS farms
but vary regionally for CAPs. The objective of differential pricing for
cereals is to equalize profits per unit of output for all cooperative farms.
Prices for high cost farms, if cost differentials result from natural condi-
tions, are fixed higher than domestic prices, so that profits per unit of
output for low cost producers are close to those of the high cost producers.
These price inequalities are government subsidies to high cost producers.
The differential pricing policy applies to a few selected commodities and is
now more of an exception rather than the rule.
21.       Domestic prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, sugar beet and
grapes are fixed by grades and dates of delivery. No price differentials
exist between CAP and IAS production and, in most cases, among regions, but
prices are higher for early deliveries. The price of any of these crops can
vary within the maximum price for early delivery and superior quality crop
and the minimum price for late delivery and poor quality crop, but cannot
decline below the floor or exceed the ceiling price.
22.       Except for differences accounted by quality, price of milk and
other livestock products applicable to CAP and IAS units is basically the
same. However, as an incentive to stimulate production, higher milk prices
(17% to 25%) are allowed to those cooperatives, whose sales exceed delivery
contracts by 10,000 liters. The pricing policy for private farms, which
account for about 19% and 14%, respectively of national milk and meat pro-
duction, is the same as for the cooperatives. The private farms have little
or no incentive to sell their produce through the peasant free markets be-
cause prices in these markets do not exceed those which are offered by the
marketing enterprises.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Prices Used for Project Appraisal
23.       For financial evaluation of the project, the official domestic
prices have been used. For economic analysis, however, prices of tradeables
have been derived from the Bank's forecast of world prices for the period
1975-80 and for the non-tradeables, official domestic prices are used. The
former category includes cereals, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables, grapes, sugar
beet (sugar), and beef cattle; the latter includes fodders, other crops, live-
stock products and milk. Both sets of prices are given in Table 1. Romania
is a price taker in the world market and project output of exportables would
have no influence on international prices.
March 29, 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
Unit Price
For Financial For Economic
Commodity                              Unit          Analysis        Analysis
- ---------Lei------------
Crops
Wheat                                ton            1,250           2,640
Barley                               ton            1,050           2,000
Maize                                ton              950           1,840
Soybean                              ton            3,000           4,300
Sunflower A                          ton            2,030           5,100
Sugar beet-                          ton              430             420
Potato                               ton              600           1,100
Tomato                               ton            1,000           2,600
Alfalfa (Green)                      ton              100             100
Alfalfa (Hay)                        ton              500             500
Maize (Silage)                       ton              120             120
Apricot                              ton            3,000           2,600
Peach                                ton            3,000           2,600
Sour Cherry                          ton            3,000           2,600
Sweet Cherry                         ton            2,500           2,200
Plum                                 ton            3,000           2,600
Grape                                ton            2,600           2,400
Livestock and Livestock Products
Milk                                 liter               2               2
Beef Cattle                          Head           4,380           4,500
Cull Cow (at 600 kg)                 Head           5,400           5,400
Non-pregnant Heifer (at 600 kg)    Head             5,400           5,400
In-calf Heifer                       Head           9,000          24,000
Calves (to 15 days old)              Head             900             900
Dead Animals:
Calves (to 15 days)                Head             450             440
Calves (15 days to 1 year)         Head           1,500           1,500
All Others                         Head           4,000           4,000
By-products
Straw (Wheat and Barley)             ton              100             100
Stalks:
Soybean                            ton              100             100
Sunflower                          ton               40              40
Corn Cobs                            ton                58              58
Leaves (Sugar beet)                  ton                58              58
Manure                               ton                50              50
/1 Sugar beet's price has been derived from international price of
sugar (US49.9/lb) by assuming sugar recovery of 14% and sugar
processing cost of US$70/ton.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ROMAN IA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Irrigation Component
1.        The project's irrigation component would consist of a system of
works to irrigate, at an overall efficiency of 60%, an area of 65,400 ha
(64,800 ha net) including on-farm irrigation equipment; land leveling; Boil
erosion control works; and farm machinery and implements. Principal features
of the works included in the component are:
(a) a floating pumping station at the Danube River;
(b) the canal system;
(c) main pumping stations on the canals and their
distributaries;
(d) pressure pumping stations;
(e) power supply works;
(f) pipe distribution networks;
(g) on-farm equipment;
(h) land leveling;
(i) soil erosion control works; and
(j) farm machinery and implements.
These features are described below, and the irrigation system is illustrated
in Map IBRD 11880. Data of all pumping stations on the system is summarized
in Table 1.
2.         Floating Pumping Station.  This station (SP1), which would be lo-
cated in a basin on an old arm of the Danube River near Rasova, would consist
of 18 pumping units mounted on three barges. Because of a wide fluctuation
(+ 4.1 m to + 13.5 mn) in the Danube water levels, a floating station is more
economical than a fixed station. The levee protecting the southern bank of
the Danube, at the site of the floating station, would be reshaped in a
length of about 0.4 km to accommodate the station. The pumps would be de-
signed to lift a flow of 49.0 m3/sec required by the irrigation system



ANNEX 4
Page 2
through a head of 7.8 m (average head 5.5 m). The pumps would deliver water
through flexible pipes of 1,400 mm diameter and 125 m length into a discharge
basin at the head of the main canal (CAO).   The station would have an in-
stalled power capacity of 5,850 kW and an overall efficiency of 75%.
3.        The Canal System.  The main canal, which would extend from the dis-
charge basin of the floating pumping station (SPI) to the Hateg pumping station
(SRPI), would consist of three short reaches (Map IBRD 11880). The first reach
would connect the discharge basin with Lake Baciu (about 2.5 km long) and would
be 0.5 km long; the second, also 0.5 km long, would take the water from the lake
to Baciu pumping station (SP2); and the third reach (1.5 km long) would convey
the irrigation supplies to the pumping station at Hateg (SRPI). Throughout
these reaches, the main canal is protected by a parallel embankment from surface
drainage flows of the surrounding areas. Water elevation at the head of the
canal is 9.1 m, and upstream of Hateg station is 15.3 m. The planned Cernavoda
hydropower project on the Danube would raise the river water to a level of 18.5
m. With its construction (by 1985), all works upstream of Hateg pumping station
would become redundant, and all equipment at the floating and Baciu pumping
stations would be removed.
4.        The Hateg pumping station (SRP1) (para. 6) would lift irrigation
supplies separately for Rasova branch (19.0 m3/sec) and Vederoasa branch
(30.0 m3/sec) canals. The former, flowing eastward, would command about
25,400 ha of irrigable area, wlhile .he latter flowing in a southerly direction
would irrigate the remaining 40,000 ha. Both branch canals would be concrete
lined, and would pass, in their upper reaches, through a difficult terrain
involving deep cuts and fills. Several concrete-lined distributaries, on
both branches, would supply water to the pressure pumping stations (para. 8).
At suitable locations escape canals (CE) would discharge surplus water into
natural drainages. Total length of the canal system would be about 175 km,
which would involve earthwork excavation of about 13 million m3 and a fill
of about 3 million m3. About 90% length of the canals would traverse zones
that are made up of loess soils, some of which are likely to settle signifi-
cantly on wetting. Therefore a substantial length of the canals would be
lined after they would have carried water for two or three years following
their construction as unlined canals. This and other problems of loess soils
are discussed later in this Annex (paras. 16 to 19).
5.        The canal system and the pumping stations would be designed to
operate 24 hours per day. Water control in the system would be provided
by 39 gated regulators, of which 24 would be equipped with automatic
constant downstream water level gates; the other 15, on distributaries having
a capacity below 2.0 m3/sec, would be provided with vertical lift manual
gates. The canal system would cross ten valleys through siphons; the
largest (near Poienita) would carry 24.0 m3/sec through three 2.1 m diameter,
1,700 m long steel pipes. Other structures on the canal system would include
33 bridges, 45 drainage culverts under the canals, 30 escape weirs and 12
drops.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Main Pumping Stations.  The Baciu pumping station (SP2) would con-
sist of 8 pumping units capable of lifting 49.0 m3/sec over a maximum head
of 8.3 m (average 6.7 m). The installed capacity at this station would be
5,230 kW (Table 1). The pumping station at Hateg (SRPI) would contain 9 units,
of which 4 would lift 19.0 m3/sec over a maximum head of 96.3 m (SRP1A) into
Rasova branch canal and the other 5 units would pump 30.0 m3/sec over 77.2 m
(SRPIB) into Vederoasa branch canal. The installed capacity of this station
would be 54,360 kW. The Rasova pumping station (SRPZ) would be located on
Rasova branch canal, a short distance below the discharge end of Hateg-Rasova
pipes, and would consist of 4 pumps capable of lifting 19.0 m3/sec over 48.5 m.
A similar station (SRP3) located on Vederoasa branch would lift its supplies
over a maximum head of 75.5 m. The installed capacity of the former is 12,120
kW and of the latter 30,340 kW.
7.        There would be 4 pumping stations on Vederoasa branch distributa-
ries; data on these stations is also given in Table 1. No pumping stations
would be required on Rasova branch distributaries.
8.        Pressure Pumping Stations.  There would be 39 pressure pumping
stations on the irrigation system; their location (SPPI to SPP39) is shown
on Map IBRD 11880. Of these 35 would contain vertical pumps and 4 horizontal.
All stations would be of the outdoor type. The pumps would take water from a
forebay, into which the supplying distributary canal would terminate. Pumps
pressurizing supplies for sprinkler irrigation would induce a pressure of 9 to
10 atmospheres; for furrow irrigation the pressure would be 3 to 4 atmospheres.
Total number of pumping units at these stations would be 387 with an installed
capacity of 58,670 kW. Some of the stations would be located about 60 m away
from the canal terminus in view of the objectionable loess soils.
9.        Power Supply Works.  In order to supply power to all pumping sta-
tions, about 136 km of 110 kV power lines would have to be constructed with
substations having a combined capacity of 340 tMVA. Since these facilities
would be serving other objectives also, the cost of this network has not been
charged to the project and would be included in the general work program of
the Ministry of Energy. About 240 km of 20 kV lines, and substations with a
combined capacity of 137 MVA would, however, exclusively serve the project
works and their cost would, herefore, be included in the project cost.
10.       Pipe Distribution Networks.  Thirty-nine pipe networks, originating
from the 39 pressure pumping stations, would serve the area to be irrigated.
The area to be served by a network varies from 514 ha to 3,040 ha. The dis-
tribution networks would be buried and would consist of asbestos cement pipes,
which were found to be the least costly as compared to other types of pipe.
The size of pipes would vary from 600 mm to 100 mm. For very deep valley



ANNEX 4
Page 4
crossings, steel pipe would be used in the siphons; for shallower crossings,
where pressure would exceed the safe limit for asbestos pipe, reinforced con-
crete pipe would be employed. Total length of asbestos, concrete and steel
pipe required for the system is estimated respectively at 1,300 km, 221 km and
45 km.
11.       Sprinkler Irrigation and On-farm Equipment.  Sprinkler irrigation
is the least cost alternative over furrow irrigation for areas with slopes
greater than 3%, which require excessive land leveling. Therefore, about
31,400 ha with slopes exceeding 3% were selected for irrigation by sprinklers.
The remaining 34,000 ha, which require either light to medium or no land level-
ing, would be irrigated by furrows. Each sector irrigated by a pipe network
would be subdivided into blocks of about 38 ha. Each block would be served by
a distribution pipe (laid at intervals of 612 m), on which 9 to 10 hydrants,
spaced 72 m apart, would be provided. Each hydrant would have connections for
four laterals, but only two would be served simultaneously at a pressure of
3.0 atmospheres. Sprinklers, spaced at 18 m intervals would serve an area of
18 m by 18 m. This system of sprinklers has worked well on other Romanian
projects. Lateral pipes and sprinkler equipment would belong to the farm
entities and would be provided to them under long-term credits by BAFI.
12.       Furrow Irrigation and On-farm Equipment.  The area of each sector
to be irrigated by furrows would also be subdivided into about 38 ha blocks.
Low pressure pumps from the pressure pumping stations would feed the main
pipe and distribution pipes serving the sector. Distribution pipes would be
spaced at 612 m intervals, on which hydrants would be at intervals of 216 m.
Each hydrant would feed a set of furrows, through a portable butyl pipe
with outlets at furrow spacings, at a pressure of 0.35 atmosphere. The
portable pipe would be furnished to the farm entities on long-term credit
under BAFI loans.
13.       Land Leveling.  Of the area to be irrigated by furrows (34,000 ha),
about 13,000 ha would require light to medium leveling at the rate of 100 m3
to 150 m3/ha. This work would be carried out by the construction agencies,
as a part of the project work.
14.       Soil Erosion Control Works.  About 7,000 ha of area to be irri-
gated would be protected by soil erosion control works consisting of pro-
tective plantation, terracing, leveling, stone and grass chutes and other
minor works. Similar works would also be carried out to protect deep
excavation cuts and steep natural slopes close to sites of important proj-
ect works like pumping stations, regulators or other structures.
15.       Farm Machinery and Implements.  A list of farm machinery and imple-
ments to be provided under the project is at Annex 8, Table 2. Most of this
machinery would be required to cultivate and harvest the project crops, and a
part would be to replace the worn out equipment of State Agricultural Mechaniza-
tion Enterprises serving the project area.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Problems of Loess Soils
16.       General.  Over 90% length of canals and distributaries of the proj-
ect's irrigation system would pass through loess soils, which have been clas-
sified by tests into four zones: Zone I, where subsidence on wetting is below
5 cm; Zone II, where subsidence varies from 0 to 40 cm; Zone III, where sub-
sidence varies from 5 cm to 40 cm and Zone IV where subsidence exceeds 40 cm.
Lengths of canals traversing these zones are summarized below:
Thickness             Estimated           Length
of Loess             Subsidence          of Canals
Zone                      Layers              on Wetting        through the Zone
(m)                 (cm)             (km)        (%)
Non-Loess                                                         11.2          6
Loess
I                       5 to 8              Below 5              0.7         1
II                      Variable             0 to 40              4.8         3
III                       8 to 14             5 to 40             87.9        50
IV                      14 to 40             More than 40        69.8        40
Total                                                      174.4        100
The important zones are III and IV, through which about 90% of the system's
canals would be aligned. These soils are mostly silty clay loams (about 60%
particles smaller than 0.05 mm), with a moisture content of 13% to 20%, a
natural density of 1.5 to 1.9 ton/m3, a porosity of 40% to 54%, and a plasti-
city index of 20%. These characteristics indicate the need for taking special
measures for the stability of the canal and its strucures, which are described
below.
17.       Canals.  In order to conserve valuable pumped water, all canals must
be lined as the permeability of soils is high. Prior to lining, the canal
bed (through loess soils) must be properly compacted to avoid subsidence on
wetting. In Zones I and II, the canals would be lined, when they are con-
structed initially, following compaction of the subgrade under optimum moisture
conditions. In Zone IV, where subsidence on wetting is expected to be larger
than 40 cm, the canals would be constructed initially as unlined but to their
respective lined cross-sections. These would be run for one, two or three ir-
rigation seasons, depending on the nature of soil and its expected subsidence,
after which the canal sections would be made up to grade and lining would be
placed. In Zone III, however, depending on detailed tests, lining would be
constructed initially in some canal reaches, while in others pre-wetting would
be done as in Zone IV.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
18.       Pumping Stations.  The foundations of Baciu and Hateg pumping sta-
tions would rest directly on limestone bedrock as it exists close to ground
surface, there being very little or no loess deposits at these locations.
The Rasova pumping station would be situated in an area with 25 m deep loess.
The foundation of this station, therefore, would be designed to rest on 40
drilled caissons of I m diameter, penetrating the loess deposits down to
limestone bedrock. The discharge pipe, conveying pumped water to Rasova
branch canal, would rest on reinforced concrete supports, which would be con-
structed on the slope leading up to the plateau. The ground below the pipe
would be protected by a concrete slab, against the effects of wetting by
rainfall, to avoid settlement of the pipe supports. The Vederoasa pumping
station would be constructed in an area with 12 m depth of loess. At this
location, the station's foundation would be placed over a thin compacted
layer of loess resting on bedrock. The foundations of the four smaller sta-
tions on distributaries would consist of reinforced concrete rafts, which
would rest on well compacted thin loess layers.
19.       Canal Structures.  All siphon pipes would be placed on supports,
which would either rest on bedrock, or well compacted loess. Inlet and outlet
structures of siphons would be sealed against any leakage by bitumen impregnated
fabric below the concrete. Of the 14 regulators with automatic gates, seven
would be founded on piles driven to bedrock and the other seven on compacted
loess after 2 to 3 years of pre-wetting. Other structures, wherever the loess
deposits are shallower than 15 m, would be placed on piles or caissons. Where
loess deposits are deeper than 15 m, temporary structures would be built ini-
tially and permanent structures would be constructed only after subsidence had
taken place following pre-wetting of the canal reach.
March 29, 1976



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Data on Pumping Stations
Maximum                            Number         Maximum
Discharge           Lift            of Units      Discharge       Installed Power
Name of Pumping Station                  Pumped      Maximum    Average    Proposed        Per Unit          Capacity
(m3/sec)      (m)         (m)                     (mW/sec)            (KW)
Floating - SP1                           49.0         7.8        5.5          18            2.75            5,850
Baciu - SP2                              49.0         8.3        6.7           8            6.25            5,230
Hateg (Rasova)- SRPIA                    19.0        96.3       88.7           4            4.75)          54,360
Hateg (Vederoasa) - SRPIB                30.0        77.2       71.1           5            6.00)
Rasova - SRP2                            19.0        48.5       40.5           4            4.75           12,120
Vederoasa - SRP3                         30.0        75.5       67.4           5            6.00           30,340
Viroaga - SRP4A                           3.2        50.8       43.1           4            0.80)           3,150
- SRP4B                           0.8       38.5        33.1           3           0.38)           3
Cascioarele - SRP5                        5.7        30.7       23.6           4            1.50            3,280
Cerchezu - SRP6                           3.5        16.8       10.9           7            0.50
Chirnogeni - SRP7                         2.5        25.0       20.4           4            0.63
Pressure Pumping Stations
(SPP1 to SPP39)                                                             387                           58,670
Total                                                                                                1_73,000
March 1976                                                                                                                  FM



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Livestock and Rural Water Supply Components
1.        In Romania, livestock output accounts for about 40% of total agri-
cultural production and contributes nearly 7% to the national income. In 1974,
animal population in Romania was estimated at around 29.7 million, of which
cattle were about 5.9 million (20%), pigs about 9.0 million (31%) and sheep and
goats about 14.8 million (49%). Poultry population was estimated at over 66.5
million. Increase in animal numbers and in livestock products over the last 15
years has been very significant. During the last 15 years increase in animal
production (due mainly to concentration of production in big units, upgrading of
local breeds by crossbreeding with imported animals of superior quality, im-
proved feeding, hygiene and intensive management) amounted to 43%, of which
growth in cattle, pigs and sheep was respectively 30%, 109% and 24%. Production
of beef, pork and eggs increased by 96%, 125% and 100% respectively, whereas
milk and wool increased by 53% and 10%. Future plans continue to emphasize
livestock production with a view to raising livestock output from 40% of total
agricultural production to 50% by the year 1990.
2.        The livestock component under the project consists of eleven dairy
units, two beef fattening units and one feedmill; these are described in
Sections A, B and C below. The rural water supply component is described
in Section D.
A. Dairy Units
3.        General.  Dairying is an important component of the livestock sub-
sector. Of the 5.9 million cattle in Romania, about 2.9 million are cows.
Local cattle are mainly dual purpose animals of mixed type and origin, produced
from upgrading the native Baltata Romanesca and other regional breeds with
Pinzgau, Simmental, Brown Swiss and Holstein. Expansion of the dairy industry
is being emphasized under the present (1971-1975) and the forthcoming (1976-
1980) Five-Year Plans; its expansion is also projected in Government's long-term
planning through 1990, when the national herd is expected to increase to about
10 million. In the livestock subsector, dairying will be given the highest
priority in allocation of resources in the 1976-1980 Plan and consequently milk
output and meat production are expected to register an increase of 50% and 40%.
Government plans to achieve these objectives by importation of selected Holstein
cows from Western Europe, which would provide (a) a quick boost to milk produc-
tion, and (b) nucleus herds of purebred Holsteins for breeding superior sires
for crossbreeding. The latter is regarded by Government as the key element of
its long-term strategy for increasing the dairy merit of the national herd. This
program was initiated 4-5 years ago and is being expanded by importing Holstein
cattle under the Bank-financed Sadova-Corabia (1083-RO), and Flood Recovery
(1169-RO) Projects. Imported cows are being used to breed animals of pure



ANNEX 5
Page 2
lineage as well as upgrading of the Romanian cattle. The Fl 1/ dairy crosses
have been in production for two lactations, and records indicate that their milk
yield is about 36% higher than the local heifers. The F2 2/ heifers have a 26%
superiority In milk yield over Fl heifers. This order of improvement is not
unexpected in crossbreeding programs where overall management and feeding
practices permit expressions of superior merit. The standard of management and
feeding on State and cooperative enterprises in Romania appears generally to be
of a level to be able to take advantage of such potential.
Dairy Units Under the Prolect
4.        The project would include the establishment of eleven Dairy Units
within the project area (Map IBRD 11880), of which at least seven would be
located on CAPs and the remaining on the State farms. Each of these Units
would be stocked with 830 cows, of which about 600 would be in milk at any one
time. These Units would be established in accordance with a standard model de-
signed by the Institute for Studies, Research and Design of Zootechnical Con-
struction of MAIA described below. Such units have already been tried in the
country and their financial viability has already been proven.
5.        About 9,130 in-calf Holstein heifers would be imported under the proj-
ect, of which at least 50% (4,565 heifers) would be used on the project's eleven
Dairy Units; the remaining 4,565 heifers could be used in stocking dairy units
in the southeastern region of Romania covering the districts of Constanta,
Ialomita, Braila, Ilfov, Buzau, Vrancea, Galati and Tulcea.  The eleven Dairy
Units would be established according to the schedule in para 10 and the heifers
would be imported according to the schedule in para 11.  The imported heifers
would be allocated to various dairies in such a way that the project's Dairy
Units would always receive preference over other units. Heifers would be alloc-
ated outside the project's Units only when the project's Units have been stocked
to full capacity with imported heifers (at least 50%) and first or second gener-
ation pure-breed offspring of earlier imports (up to 50%). Prior to the project
heifers allocation to dairy units outside the project area, the Bank would ap-
prove the appraisal reports of such units. It would also be ensured that in
such units imported heifers are distributed in numbers of not less than 200
per unit. The above safeguards would ensure high milk yield for the project's
Dairy Units, while permitting the improvement of the national dairy herd through
a wider dispersal of the imported heifers of superior dairy merit.
1/   Fl are equivalent to first crosses between local and imported breeds.
2/   F2 are equivalent to intercrosses between Fl and imported breeds.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Standard Dairy Unit.  The standard Dairy Unit involves a total herd
inventory of some 1,300 animals. To maintain about 600 cows in milk, about
700 mature pregnant cows are maintained at the Unit. The remaining 600
animals consist of replacement heifers and female calves. All animals are
kept indoors for most of the year; only the dry stock are allowed access to
the loafing yards. A Unit consists of three cow barns, each housing 200
cows; a maternity barn with five compartments, each with 16 calving places;
a nursery to house female calves of 15 to 90 days age; two barns for housing
older female calves--one for the age group of 3 to 18 months, and the other
for 18 to 27 months. Other facilities consist of a reconditioning (sick)
house for 16 animals, a building with milk cooling and storage equipment
(capacity 3,600 1) and feed storage and processing sheds. Barns are heated
in winter. Milking is by machine. Cows are tethered and supplied with feed
by tractor and trailers. Slurry is removed hydraulically.
7.        Bulls are not kept at the Dairy Unit; breeding is done artificially
with semen from insemination centers. Female calves produced at the Unit are
inseminated at 15 to 18 months and subsequenly selected as herd replacements
or sold to other dairy units. In general, all female calves are reared and
male calves are sold at 15 days. Most (95%) of the latter are fattened for
beef but some (5%) may be selected for rearing as bulls for breeding.
8.        Feed of dairy cattle is standardized and determined at the rate of
2% (dry matter) of body weight for maintenance, and 1 kg of dry matter per 2
kg of milk produced. Normally, cattle feed consists of alfalfa (up to 50%),
maize silage (25%), crop residue (5% to 15%), hay (5%) and concentrates (up
to 30%). Actual composition varies depending on cost and availability of
nutrients. Feed required by a Dairy Unit is normally grown on the cooperative
or State farm on which it is located; requirements in excess of those avail-
able from the farm and the requirements of concentrates or processed feeds are
purchased.
9.        In a Dairy Unit, close attention is paid to animal health.  Each
Unit has at least one full time veterinarian on its staff; adequate supplies
of equipment, vaccines and drugs are also available. In disease control,
emphasis is on prophylaxis and a comprehensive vaccination program is fol-
lowed.   This, together with the rigid disease control program at the national
level, results in few serious disease problems. The national program has
concentrated on eradication of brucellosis, foot and mouth, tuberculosis and
anthrax. No cases of brucellosis or foot and mouth have been reported in the
last ten years. Anthrax is also under control and positive reactions to tuber-
culine testing are currently only 0.2% and are decreasing. Veterinarians take
responsibility not only for health care but also for artificial insemination,
pregnancy diagnosis, and selection of herd replacements (in consultation with
senior livestock technicians). Under such conditions, complete veterinary
care of a high standard is available on a permanent basis and losses are low,
seldom exceeding 2% in most classes of livestock. Animals showing symptoms
of disease or lower than anticipated milk output are separated from the main



ANNEX 5
Page 4
herd and treated individually.  In the event they do not respond to treatment
promptly, they are slaughtered compulsorily for their meat value. Animals
dying unexpectedly are compensated for by the State, the amount of compensa-
tion provided depends on their age and condition. Generally, both the com-
pulsory slaughter and the mortality figures are of the order of I to 2%.
10        Phasing of Construction and Stocking.  Each Dairy Unit would
require 18 to 20 months to construct. The project's eleven Dairy Units would
be constructed in accordance with the following schedule (Chart 15361(R)):
Number of                                     Construction Period
Dairy Units                           Commencement Date   Completion Date
2                                   July 1976          December 1977
3                                  April 1977          December 1978
3                                   April 1978         December 1979
3                                   April 1979         December 1980
11.       Stocking of the Dairy Unit, by periodic imports of pregnant heifers,
would start during the second year of the Unit's construction and about 735
heifers would be made available to calve over the ensuing months. Towards
the end of the third year, a further 95 pregnant heifers would be added to
make up the total of 830 imported heifers at each Unit. Typical herd projec-
tion for one Dairy Unit is attached (Table 1). The number of heifers which
would have to be imported each year for stocking the project's Dairy Units is
given below:
Number of Heifers
Project Year                  Calendar Year                      to be Imported
2                            1977                               1,500
3                            1978                               2,400
4                            1979                               2,600
5                            1980                               2,630
Total               9,130
In view of the need to provide a regular milk supply, it would be necessary to
arrange procurement in such a manner that some 55 to 65 heifers would calve and
enter production every month. This would necessitate importaticn of pregnancy
diagnosed heifers in suitable batches by prudent shopping on the basis of
solicited bids from foreign countries.
12.       Cost.  The cost of buildings and facilities for each Dairy Unit is
estimated at Lei 10.15 million (US$0.51 million). The cost of imported heifers
has been included at US$1,200 per head. Physical contingencies are at 7-1/2%
of the cost of buildings and facilities, while price contingencies are in-
cluded at 1% for local costs, and at 8% for foreign exchange cost during 1977
to 1979 and at 7% thereafter. Total cost of eleven Units, including contingen-
cies, is estimated at Lei 415.6 million (US$20.8 million), of which Lei 285.8
million (US$14.3 million) would be the cost of heifers.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
13.       Production from Dairy Units.  The average milk production is estimated
at 3,800 liters per cow per lactation period (Table 1). At full development of
the eleven Dairy Units in 1984, the total milk production would amount to 29.0
million liters. Prior to 1984, the annual milk production and other output
is detailed in Annex 11, Table 3 and summarized below:
Estimated
Project Year            Calendar Year              Milk Production
(million liters)
3                       1978                         2.2
4                       1979                         8.5
5                       1980                        15.2
6                       1981                        23.0
7                       1982                        27.5
8                       1983                        28.5
9                       1984                        29.0
In addition to providing milk, the Dairy Units would also produce the following
items at full development in 1984:
Item                    Quantity                Meat (Liveweight)
(tons)
Cull Cows                        1,131 head                     560
Heifers, Non-pregnant              396 head                     200
Heifers, Pregnant                1,573 head
Male Calves (for
fattening)                     3,243 head
Male Calves (for breeding)         200 head
Manure                         153,000 tons
Normal Mortalities                 352 head
Total                                                     760
The first two items would be sold for their meat value (760 tons). Pregnant
heifers would provide foundation and replacement stock for expansion of dairy
industry in other cooperative and State farms, where there is currently a
large unsatisfied demand for cows of a superior dairy merit. Surplus male
calves would meet over one-half of the total demand in the two Beef Fattening
Units to be established under the project (para. 17). Of all the male calves
born, about 5% would be channelled to the State Artificial Insemination Centers
for breeding purposes. These would be selected initially on type and dam/sire
performance pedigree and re-selected later on the basis of progeny test.
Proven sires would be used in general dairy breed improvement.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
14.       Milk produced from the Dairy units would supply local farm and vil-
lage needs (40%), and the growing demand of the city of Constanta and its
suburbs (60%). The latter is estimated at about 20 million liters per annum
above the current supply. Processing facilities are available in Constanta
to handle the extra milk.
15.       Staffing.  The staff required for each Dairy Unit would comprise
the following:
Administrative and Technical Personnel                    4
Permanent Labor                                          51
Temporary Labor                                           9
Total                        64
These numbers are considered normal to manage each Dairy Unit under the
Romanian system.
B. Beef Fattening Units
16.       General.  Beef Fattening Units are a developing adjunct of dairying
as they represent an efficient means of utilizing dairy industry's surplus
male calves. It is estimated that about 900,000 surplus male calves are
available annually from dairying in Romania. These represent a large resource
base which is only now starting to be effectively utilized. With the expan-
sion of dairying under the current and the future Five-year plans, the beef
fattening program will also grow in importance. Two beef fattening units are
already functioning in the Constanta district.
Beef Fattening Units Under the Project
17.       The project would include the establishment of two Beef Fattening
Units at Negresti and Adamclisi (Map IBRD 11880). Each Unit would have a capa-
city of 3,200 head, and would produce about 1,000 tons (liveweight) of meat
per year. These Units would be established in accordance with a financially
viable standard model, developed by the Institute for Studies, Research and
Design of Zootechnical Construction. Several similar units are already func-
tioning in the country.
18.       Standard Beef Fattening Unit.  A standard Beef Fattening Unit con-
sists of 4 barns for housing the calves, one reconditioning (sick) house, and
one summer shelter. Other facilities include feed storage and processing
barns and storehouses. Calves are held in barns over slatted floors. Feed
is provided by tractor and trailer. Slurry is removed hydraulically.
19.       Male calves (15 days old and an average weight of about 45 kg) are
purchased in groups of 240 per month from dairy units, and fattened over a



ANNEX 5
Page 7
period of about 350 days to an average weight of about 375 kg. Feed require-
ments are standardized and consist of processed feeds (50%), alfalfa (25%),
maize silage (20%) and maize residue (5%). Processed feeds are purchased from
feedmills; alfalfa and other fodder are either grown on the Fattening Unit or
purchased from nearby agricultural farms. Adequate storage and processing
facilities are provided on the Unit.
20.       Throughout the fattening program, close attention is paid to the
health of animals. Full-time veterinary supervision is provided, and a full
range of veterinary drugs and supplies is available. Animals showing clinical
symptoms of disease, or lower than projected weight gains, are separated from
their groups and kept in the reconditioning house for treatment. Experience
has shown that mortality and compulsory slaughter rates each run around 5%.
If an animal's condition is in doubt, it is slaughtered and sold for its meat
value. Animals which die are compensated for by the State; the amount of
compensation depends on the weight and age at death. For project calcula-
tions, compulsory slaughter has been omitted, and a mortality rate of about 8%
and an average compensation of Lei 1,500 per head has been assumed (Annex 11,
Table 3).
21.       Phasing of Construction and Stocking.  Construction of the first
Fattening Unit would commence in April 1977 and that of the second would be
started six months laer. Each Unit would be completed in about 21 months
according to the following schedule (Chart 15361(R)):
Construction Period
Item                                   Commencement Date          Completion Date
Beef Fattening Unit No. 1                 April 1977               December 1978
Beef Fattening Unit No. 2                 October 1977             June 1979
Following completion of construction, each Unit would be stocked with young
male calves at the rate of 240 per month. Stocking of the two Units at this
rate would not pose any problem as the required number of calves would be
available from the dairy units within and around the project area. By 1980,
at least eight of the Dairy Units to be established under the project would be
producing about 2,600 male calves per year. When all of the eleven Dairy
Units are functioning under the project, at least one-half of the total
requirement of calves for the two Beef Fattening Units (5,760) would be
available from these Dairy Units.
22.       Cost.  The cost of the buildings and faclities for the two Units,
including contingencies, is estimated at Lei 23.7 million (US$1.2 million).
Physical contingencies are provided at 7-1/2%, and price contingencies as
stated under para. 12.
23.       Beef Production.  From the two Fattening Units, beef production
would build up to the full annual output of about 2,000 tons in about five



ANNEX 5
Page 8
years from the date construction of the first Unit was started. During the
first production year (1979), only 222 animals (80 tons) would be available,
while during the next year (1980) 2,886 animals (1,080 tons) would be sold
out. In 1981, production would reach the full capacity of 5,328 animals
(2,000 tons). Details of output are given in Annex 11, Table 3. It is ex-
pected that most of this production would be either exported live or as
processed meat.
24.       Staffing.  The staff required for both Units would amount to 54
persons, of which 12 would be technical and administrative and 42 labor.
These are considered adequate to manage the two Units efficiently.
C. Feedmill
25.       Justification.  As already discussed, livestock production in
Romania is being expanded on modern lines in large specialized units that are
located close to the feed producing areas. The need for processed feeds,
therefore, is increasing with time. There are two feedmills in the Constanta
region, but their combined capacity (250,000 tons per annum) falls short of
the current regional needs by about 60,000 tons (20%). At full development
of the dairy and beef fattening units under the project, the requirement of
processed feeds would increase by another 35,000 tons, and the regional
shortage of processed feed would rise to about 100,000 tons. This deficit
would be further aggravated by other planned livestock developments in the
Constanta region, and it is estimated that by 1981, the requirement of pro-
cessed feeds for the region would increase to about 140,000 tons over and
above the quantities that are available from the two existing mills. Gov-
ernment, therefore, plans to construct a new feedmill of 140,000 tons per
year capacity at Negru Voda (Map IBRD 11880) as a part of the project.
26.       Description.  The Feedmill would follow the  standardized design
developed by the Ministry of Ariculture and would be similar to the feedmill
to be constructed under the Bank-financed Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit
Project (1083-RO). The Feedmill would also include a Silo having a capacity of
57,000 tons. The mill would consist of a six storeyed reinforced concrete
building with necessary equipment for grinding cereals (maize, wheat, barley)
and industrial meal (soya, sunflower grist, wheat bran and beet pulp) and for
batching and homogenizing these and other ingredients. Homogenization and
batching processes would be automated. The mill would also contain equipment
for pelleting. In addition to the processing facilities, the Feedmill would
have a storage capacity for 3,500 tons of industrial meals and 3,000 tons of
processed feeds. The mill would have facilities to receive raw materials
(cereal and industrial meal) at the rate of 120 tons per hour and would have a
grinding capacity of about 35 tons per hour and a batching and homogenizing
capacity of 30 tons per hour. The Silo would store the cereals to be used for
the production of feeds. Stored cereals would be supplied to the Feedmill
through a conveyor.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
27.       Feed Components.  Cereals, industrial meals, animal meals (fish,
meat, blood) and mineral salts are the main ingredients; these are mixed in
proportions specified by research institutes for different classes and cate-
gories of livestock. Components are generally mixed in the following pro-
portions: cereals 65% to 85%; industrial meal 5% to 15%; animal meal 2% to
5% and mineral salts 1% to 2%. The cereal used depends on price and avail-
ability. Usually, however, maize, wheat and barley are used in the ratio of
60%, 20% and 20%. Procurement of feed components for the Feedmill would not
present any problems, as the project would increase the production of cereals
by over 230%. Other ingredients would be available from local sources in the
area.
28.       Silo.  A Silo with a capacity of 57,000 tons would be construced as
an integral part of the Feedmill at Negru Voda. It would store cereals that
are to be processed at the Feedmill. The Silo would consist of reinforced
concrete bins 6.5 m in diameter and 34 m high; facilities to receive supplies
by road and rail and to convey these supplies to the bins; a grain drying
station; and a conveyor system which would deliver cereals directly from the
bins to the Feedmill. The Silo would have facilities to receive cereals at the
rate of 320 tons per hour. The grain cleaning and drying capacity would be 240
tons and 50 tons per hour respectively. The Silo would be able to deliver
up to 80 tons per hour of cereals to the Feedmill.
29.       Cost.  The cost of the Feedmill and the Silo, including 7-1/2%
physical contingency and price contingency, is estimated at Lei 117.3 mil-
lion (US$5.9 million), of which the foreign exchange component is about
US$0.6 million or 10%.
30.       Operation of Feedmill and Silo.  The Feedmill and the Silo would
be owned and operated by a State Enterprise, and would be financed under a
BAFI loan. The requirement of staff would be as follows:.
Administrative and Technical                         37
Unskilled Labor                                     267
Total                                          304
D. Rural Water Supply Component
31.       Description.  The rural water supply component would consist of
providing potable water supply to 16 villages and Cobadin town, all of which
are situated in the project area. Names of these communities and their popu-
lation are listed in Table 2, and their location is shown on Map IBRD 11880.
These schemes would serve a total population of about 15,000, which is ap-
proximately one-half of the project area's population. The works to be pro-
vided would consist of a drilled well at each location, whose depth may vary



ANNEX 5
Page 10
from 50 m to 250 m; a small water tank, a chlorinator and a distribution net-
work. The well would be equipped with an electric pump of appropriate capacity.
The distribution network would consist of buried asbestos cement pipes whose
diameter would vary from 250 mm to 80 mm. The total length of pipe required
from the wells to the public taps is estimated at about 45 km.
32.       Cost.  The cost of the water supply component is estimated at Lei
17.6 million (US$0.9 million), of which the foreign exchange component is
about Lei 2.8 million (US$0.1 million). About 5% of the cost of each scheme
would be contributed by the CAP whose village would be served by scheme and
the balance would be advanced by BAFI as a long-term loan.
33.       Operation and Maintenance.  One electrician and one mechanic would
operate and maintain each of the 17 schemes. This staff would be included on
the personnel of the People's Council for the maintenance of rural works, and
would not be a charge on the project.
March 29, 1976



ANNEX 5
Table 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Herd Projection for One Dairy Unit
Category                                              Year Following Start of Construction of a Dairy Unit
2         3          4          5         6          7        8-20
End of Year Herd Composition
Cows                                           -        79g/2      716        696        696       696        696
Calves (up to 1 year)                          -        324        316        316        307       307        307
Heifers (1-2 years)                            -         -         318        310        310        301       301
Purchases
/3
In-calf Heifers                               735/-      95         -          -          -         -          -
Calves Born                                      -         662       644        644        626        626       626
Sales
Cull Cows                                      -          21        63        105        102        102       102
Pregnant Heifers (2-3 years)                   -         -          -         170        150       150        143
Non-pregnant Heifers (2-3 years)               -          -         -          43         38         38        36
Male Calves (15 days old)                      -         331       322        322        313        313       313
Mortalities
Cows                                           -          14        16         14         14         14        14
Heifers (2-3 years)                            -         -          -           6          6          6          6
Heifers (1-2 years)                            -          -          6          6          6          6          6
Heifers (up to 1 year)                         -           7          6         6          6          6          6
/1 Technical Coefficients:
Milk Production (1/cow/lactation period)          2,800      3,200      3,400     3,600      3,800      3,800
Mortality (%)
Cows                                      -           2          2          2          2          2         2
Heifers (2-3 years)                        -          -          -          2          2          2         2
Heifers (1-2 years)                        -          -          2          2          2          2         2
Heifers (up to 1 year)                    -           2          2          2          2          2         2
Culling (%)
Cows                                      -           3          3         15         15        15         15
Heifers (2-3 years)                        -          -          -         68         62         62        60
Reproduction Rate (%)                        -          90        90         90         90         90        90
/2 About 700 cows would lactate in this year.
/3 Animals purchased at the end of year 2, when construction of buildings and facilities is completed.
/4 Calving rate is 100%, but calves alive at 15 days of age (reproduction rate) are 90Z of those born.
March 1976



ANNEX L,
Table 2
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
/1
Village or Town                     PoDulation               Livestock
Rasova                                 1,730
Abrud                                     220
Zorile                                 1,140                    7,600
Ciocirlia                              1,440                    4,800
Cobadin                                3,200
Pf ani                                   51C 
F'intina Mare                            500
Curcani                                   120
Negresti                                  520
COnacu                                   560
Scarisoreano.                          1,080                    3,400
Dumbraveni                                700                   4,600
Olteni                                    710
Viroaga                                   830
Cascioarele                               330
Magura                                    280
Cerchezu                                  810                   3,600
Total                               1L, 7C0                  94 000
/1 Includes dairy cows, pigs and sheep.
September 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Requirement and Availability
Need for Irrigation
1.        Long-term (over 30 years) records at stations within and close to
the project area indicate that the annual rainfall in the area averages about
425 mm, of which about one-half falls during the crop growing season of April
to September. Monthly distribution of this rainfall or its annual occurrence
is however erratic and unpredictable. The minimum annual precipitationr in
the project area is about 215 mm, and the minimum during the growing season is
40 mm. Summers are usually hot (Annex 1, Table 1). Droughts are not uncommon;
the longest dry period on record extended over four consecutive years (1953 to
1956) with an annual average rainfall of 290 mm. More recently, 1974 was a
dry year when about 50% of the crop on the ground failed. Irrigation, there-
fore, is essential if assured yields are to be obtained from the project area
which basically consists of excellent quality Class I soils.
Water Requirement
2.        The National Institute for Land Improvement of the Academy of Agri-
cultural and Forestry Sciences is responsible for giving advice to all proj-
ects on crop water requirements.  Crop water requirements for the Rasova-
Vederoasa project were calculated by this Institute in close collaboration with
the Agricultural Research Station at Valul Lui Traian. Monthly requirements of
the project crops, computed after considering the effective rainfall available
in four out of five years, are given in Table 1. The net water requirement
per cropped hectare, weighted in the ratio of project crops, is estimated at
about 3,650 m3. The net water demand for the project area would average to
about 277 Mm3, of which the maximum monthly demand of 80 Mm3 would occur in
July.
3.        With the proposed water conveyance and distribution system, con-
sisting of lined canals and pipes, conveyance losses are estimated at 10%.
Allowing for field and application losses, the irrigation efficiency for
the sprinkler area (48%) is estimated at 65%, and for the furrow area (52%) at
55%. The overall efficiency of the project's system would be 60%. The gross
water requirement per cropped hectare, at the Danube River, therefore would
amount to 6,080 m3. Total withdrawal from the Danube River, over the cropping
season, would average about 461 Mm3, of which the maximum monthly of 134 Mm3
would be in July.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Water Availability
4.        The project's irrigation system would derive its water supply from
the Danube River which flows close to the northern boundary of the project
area. The Danube, which drains about 814,000 km2 in central and eastern
Europe, is a reliable source of water.  It carries high discharges (6,000
to 13,000 m3/sec) between March and July and lower flows (2,000 to 6,000
m3/sec) during the rest of the year.  Typical flow patterns of the Danube
River at the Iron Gates, about 400 km upstream of Rasova for three years
(representing a typical wet, normal and dry year), are illustrated in Chart
15360.  The project's maximum water requirement of 49 m3/sec (para 3) would
be in the month of July, when the Danube River flow is seldom below 6,000
m3/sec. Water supply for the project's irrigation system, therefore, is
quite assured.
Water Quality
5.        The Danube water is potable and of excellent quality for irrigation.
Tests made during the past few years, on samples collected upsream of Rasova,
classify the Danube water as CIS1. It contains 140 to 170 mg/l of total sus-
pended solids and has a pH value of 8.05 to 8.10.
Water Rights
6.        The Danube is an international river with Romania, Yugoslavia,
Hungary, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany and Bulgaria
as major riparians. Romania is the largest riparian, and also the last
country through which the Danube River flows before entering the Black Sea.
There is no international agreement between the riparian states for the use
of the Danube waters, but the international Water Commission for the Danube
River, of which Romania is a member, looks after the interests of its member
countries in respect of navigation and water quality. This Commission is
mainly concerned with such schemes which might interfere with either the
river's navigability or its water quality. Maximum diversion for the
project, being less than 1% of the minimum river flow in July, would not
affect navigation and therefore would not concern the Commission.
7.        Under Romanian procedures, a large water development project must
receive a clearance from the National Water Council, which manages all water
resources in Romania, before its construction can commence. This Council has
approved the use of Danube water for this project.
March 29, 1976



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern and Estimated Water Requirements
Net Water            Net Water
Requirement of       Requirement of
Crop                                                      Estimated Net Crop Water Requirement                        Cropped Area                    ppedArea  One Cropped Hectare  2
June        July       August    September    Total                                   July       Total
...........i---_(m3/ha)                  ---(ha)                                 (M)                                     (m3)
Maize, Grain                                  660       1,070       1,280        1,110          -       4,120       31,700         41.7       40.6        130.6           1,522
Wheat                                        890        1,000           -            -         -        1,890       11,400         15.0         -          21.5             548
Alfalfa                                    1,000        1,150       1,360        1,150       870        5,530        6,230          8.2        8.5         34.5            299
Sunflower                                    950        1,070       1,280            -         -        3,300        4,600          6.1        5.9         15.2            222
Sugar beet                                   660        1,070       1,280        1,110       820        4,940        3,800          5.0        4.9         18.8            182
Soybean                                      660          860       1,050            -         -        2,570        2,900          3.8        3.0          7.4            139
Vegetables /3                                 770         860       1,050          910       650        4,240          900          1.2        0.9          3.8             44
Potato                                       890        1,000       1,210          790         -        3,890          900          1.2        1.1          3.5             44
Barley                                       890        1,000           -            -         -        1,890          800          1.1         -           1.5             40
Grapes                                        650         710         440            -          -       1,800          700          0.9        0.3          1.3             33
Fruits                                       650          710         900            -         -        2,260          670         0.9         0.6          1.5             33
Subtotal                                                                                                          64,600
Maize, Silage /4                                -           -       1,280        1,170       870        3,320       11.300         14.9       14.5         37.5            544
Total                                                                                                             75.900       100.0        80.3       277.1           3L650
Net Water Requirement /5 (m3/ha)              650         890       1,050          810       250        3,650
Gross Water Requirement /6 (m3/ha)         1,080        1,480       1,750        1,350       420        6,080
/1  Month of maximum demand.
/2  Sown with project crops in the same proportion.
/3 Mainly tomato, pepper, cabbage and squash.
/4  Double crop following automn-sown wheat and barley.
/5  Weighted average for one hectare under project crops in the same proportion.                                                                                                       cr
E  At Danube at 60. overall efficiency.
March 1976



ANNEX 7
Table I
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost EstimateAL
Item                                                                Estimated Total Cost                        %
Local     Foreign      Total       Local   Poreia   Total  Foreign
- (Lei Million) -------            -----(US$ Million)----- Exchange
I. Irrigation Component
Irrigation Works
Main Pumping Stations                   157.8      88.8        246.6       7.9       4.4     12.3      36
Pressure Pumping Stations               77.4       43.6        121.0       3.9       2.2      6.1      36
Power Supply                            32.3       21.6         53.9       1.6       1.1      2.7      40
Canals                                 245.6       27.3        272.9      12.3       1.4     13.7      10
Canal Structures                       102.9       11.4        114.3       5.1       0.5      5.6      10
Distribution Pipelines                  285.6     122.4        408.0      14.3       6.1     20.4      30
On-Farm Equipment                      111.7       37.3        149.0       5.6       1.9      7.5      25
Land Leveling                           24.9        1.3         26.2       1.2        -       1.2       5
Soil Erosion Control                    10.3        0.5         10.8       0.5       0.1      0.6       5
Subtotal                           1,048.5      354.2      1,402.7      52.4     17.7      70.1      25
Land Compensation                          12.2         -         12.2       0.6        -       0.6       -
EcuiPment
Farm Machinery                          75.0       25.0        100.0       3.8       1.2      5.0      25
operation and Maintenance               16.5        5.5         22.0       0.8       0.3      1.1      25
Subtotal                              91.5       30.5        122.0       4.6       1.5      6.1      25
Engineering and Administration            125.5         -        125.5       6.3        -        6.3      -
Contingencies
Physical /2                             94.8       29.9        124.7       4.7       1.5      6.2      24
Price 13                                41.8       94.4        136.2       2.1      4.7       6.8      69
Subtotal                             136.6      124.3        260.9       6.8       6.2     13.0      48
Total Irrigation Component               1,414.3      509.0      1,923.3      70.7      25.4      96.1     26
It. Agricultural ComoonCnt
Vineyard
Establishment
Grafted Vines                           5.7        -           5.7       0.3        -       0.3       -
Fertilizer and Insecticide             2.1        2.7          4.8       0.1       0.1      0.2      56
Trellises and Enclosure               12.5         -          12.5       0.6        -       0.6       -
Roads and Water                        1.2         -           1.2       0.1        -       0.1       -
Equipment                              1.8        0.6          2.4       0.1        -       0.1      25
Labor and Operation6                                           6.0       0.3                 0.3      -
of Equipment                          6.0        _
Subtotal                            29.3        3.3         32.6       1.5      0.1       1.6      10
Administration Cost                       1.4         -          1.4       0.1        -        0.1      -
Contingencies
Physical g 2                            2.2       0.3          2.5       0.1        -       0.1      12
Phrice /3                               0.9       1.2          2.1       _         0.1       0.1     57
Subtotal                             3.1        1.5          4.6       0.1       0.1      0.2      33
Total                               33.8        4.8         38.6       1.7       0.2      1.9      12
L1   Discrepancies due to rounding.
/2 Physical Contingencies at 7.5% for all items except heifers for which contingency provided in base cost.
/3   Price Contingencies compounded at 1% for local costs,and at S7. (1977 to 1979) and 77 (after
1979) for foreign exchange costs.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 2
Ites                                                           Estimated Total Cost                        %
Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
------(Lei Million) ------     ------(US$ Million)----  Exchange
Orchard
Establishment Cost
Grafted Plants                      1.0         -        1.0       0.1        -       0.1      -
Fertilizer and Insecticide          3.5        1.2       4.7       0.1      0.1       0.2     26
Trellises and Enclosure             3.6         -        3.6       0.2        -       0.2      -
Roads and Water                     1.7         -        1.7       0.1       -        0.1      -
Equipment                           1.4        0.4       1.8       0.1       -        0.1     22
Labor and Operation
of Equipment                       3.1         -        3.1       0.1       -        0.1      -
Subtotal                         14.3        1.6      15.9       0.7      0.1       0.8     10
Administration Cost                   0.9         -        0.9       0.1        -       0.1       -
Contingencies
Physical /2                         1.2        0.1       1.3       0.1       -        0.1      8
Price /3                            0.4        0.5       0.9        -        -         -      56
Subtotal                          1.6        0.6       2.2       0.1       -        0.1     27
Total                            16.8        2.2      19.0       0.9      0.1       1.0     12
Silo
Works and Equipment
Site Development                    0.9         -        0.9        -         -        -        -
Buildings and Equipment            36.0        4.7      40.7       1.8      0.2       2.0     12
Roads and Telecommunications        1.0         -        1.0       0.1        -       0.1       -
Power Supply                        1.9         -         1.9      0.1        -       0.1       -
Water Supply and Sewerage            1.1        -         1.1       -         -        -        -
Associated Works and Equipment      1.2         -         1.2      0.1       _        0.1       -
Subtotal                         42.1        4.7      46.8       2.1      0.2       2.3     10
Engineering and Administration        1.8         -         1.8      0.1        -       0.1       -
Contingencies
Physical /2                         3.2        0.4        3.6      0.1        -       0.1      11
Price /3                            1.1        1.0        2.1      0.1      0.1       0.2     48
Subtotal                          4.3        1.4       5.7       0.2      0.1       0.3     25
Total                            48.2        6.1      54.3       2.4      0.3       2.7     11
Total Agricultural Component              98.8      13.1      111.9      5.0       0.6      5.6      12
III. Livestock Component
Dairy Units
Works and Equipment
Site Development                    3.8         -         3.8      0.2        -       0.2       -
Buildings and Equipment            59.0        7.8       66.8      2.9      0.4       3.3      12
Roads and Telecommunications        6.1         -         6.1      0.3        -       0.3       -
Power Supply                        9.8         -         9.8      0.5        -       0.5       -
Water Supply and Sewerage           12.9        -        12.9      0.7        -       0.7       -
Associated Works and Equipment      3.9         -         3.9      0.2        -       0.2       -
Transport Equipment                 8.3         -         8.3      0.4        -       0.4       -
Subtotal                        103.8        7.8     111.6       5.2      0.4       5.6       7
Heifers                                 -      219.1      219.1       -       11.0     11.0    100
Administration Cost                    6.2        -         6.2      0.3        -       0.3       -
Contingencies
Physical /2                         7.2        1.6        8.8      0.3       0.1      0.4      18
Price /3                            3.2       66.7       69.9      0.2       3.3      3.5      95
Subtotal                         10.4       68.3       78.7      0.5       3.4      3.9      87
Total                           120.4      295.2     415.6       6.0      14.8     20.8      71
L2  Physical Contingencies at 7.5% for all items except heifers for which contingency provided in base cost.
5  Price Contingencies compounded at 1% for local costs,and at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 77, (after
1979) for foreign exchange costs.



ANNEX 7
Tale 
Page 3
Item                                                                       Estimated Total Cost
Local      Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
------- (Lei Million) -------        -----(US$ Million) -----  Exchange
Beef Fattening Units
Works and Equipment
Site Development                            0.5          -           0.5         -         -           -         -
Buildings and Equipment                    12.2         1.4         13.6        0.6       0.1        0.7        10
Roads and Telecommunications                0.6          -           0.6         -         -           -         -
Power Supply                                1.1          -            1.1       0.1        -          0.1        -
Water Supply and Sewerage                   2.3          -            2.3       0.1        -          0.1        -
Associated Works and Equipment              0.4          -           0.          -         -           -         -
Transport Equipment                         1.8                       1.8       0.1                   0.1        -
Subtotal                                 18.9        1.4          20.3        0.9       0.1        1.0         7
Administration Cost                            1.0         -            1.0       0.1         -         0.1        -
Contingencies
Physical /2                                 1.5         0.1           1.6       0.1        -          0.1        6
Price La                                    0.5         0.3          0.8        _          _           -        38
Subtotal                                  2.0        0.4           2.4       0.1         -         0.1        17
Total                                    21.9         1.8         23.7        1.1       0.1        1.2         8
Feedmill
Works and Equipment
Site Development                            0.9          -           0.9         -         -
Buildings and Equipment                    73.4         9.8         83.2        3.7       0.5         4.2       12
Roads and Telecommunications                4.1          -           4.1        0.2        -          0.2        -
Power Supply                                6.6          -            6.6       0.3        -          0.3        -
Water Supply and Sewerage                   1.1          -            1.1       0.1         -         0.1        -
Associated Works and Equipment              2.2          -            2.2       0.1        -          0.1        -
Subtotal                                 88.3         9.8         98.1        4.4       0.5        4.9        10
Engineering and Administration                 8.3         -            8.3       0.4         -         0.4         -
Contingencies
Physical /2                                 7.3         0.7           8.0       0.4         -         0.4        9
Price /3                                    1.6         1.3           2.9       0.1       0.1         O.Z       45
Subtotal                                  8.9         2.0         10.9        0.5       0.1         0.6       18
Total                                   105.5       11.8         117.3        5.3       0.6         5.9       10
Total Livestock Component                        247.8      308.8         556.6       12.4      15.5        27.9       55
IV. Rural Water Supply Component
Civil Works
Wells and Pumps                                6.2        1.8           8.0       0.3        0.1        0.4        23
Mains and Water Tanks                          1.0          -           1.0       0.1         -         0.1         -
Distribution Network                           3.5         -            3.5       0.2         -         0.2         -
Chlorination Equipment                          -         0.5           0.5         -         -          -       100
Power Supply                                   2.0                      2.0       0.1                   0.1         -
Subtotal                                   12.7         2.3          15.0       0.7       0.1         0.8       15
Engineering and Administration                   0.6          -           0.6         -         -           -         -
Contingencies
Physical La                                    1.1        0.1           1.2       0.1         -         0.1         8
Price L3                                       0.4        0.4           0.8         -                              50
Subtotal                                  1.5         0.5           2.0       0.1        -          0.1
Total Rural Water Supply Component                14.8         2.8         17.6        0.8       0.1         0.9       16
Total Project Cost
Base Cost                                        1,607.3       634.7       2,242.0      80.4       31.7      112.1        28
Physical Contingencies                             118.5        33.2         151.7        5.9       1.7        7.6        22
Price Contingencies                                  499       165.8         215.7        2.5       8.3       10.8        77
GRAND TOTAL                                    1,775.7       833.7      2 609 4       88.8      41.7       130.5       32
/2  Physical Contingencies at 7.5% for all items except heifers for which contingency provided in base cost.
/3 Price Contingencies compounded at 1% for local costs, and at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after
1979) for foreign exchange costs.
March 1976



ROMANI IA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditure
Item                                      Estimated Total Cost                 1976              1977                1978                1979                1980               1981               1982
Local    Foreign    Total        Total  Foreign  Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Leimililo---------I-------------------------------------------Lei million--------------------_                -______________________________________
I. Irrigation Component
Irrigation Works
Main Pumping Stations              157.8      88.8       246.6    18.6       5.4    103.0       30.0      76.0      40.0      49.0      13.4        -        -        -        -        -        -
Pressure Pumping Stations           77.4     43.6        121.0      -        -        12.0       3.6      40.0      15.0      40.0      15.0      29.0    10.0       -        -        -        -
Power Supply                        32.3      21.6        53.9      0.9      -        24.0      11.6      21.0      10.0       8.0       -         -        -        -        -         .
Canals                             245.6      27.3       272.9    15.9       5.3      69.0      22.0      56.0       -        48.0       -        24.0      -       30.0      -       30.0
Canal Structures                   102.9      11.4       114.3      2.3      1.4      43.0      10.0      49.0       -        20.0       -         -        -        -        -        -
Distribution Pipelines            285.6    122.4         408.0      -        -        50.0      15.0    150.0       75.0    150.0       32.4      58.0      -        -        -        -
On-Farm Equipment                  111.7      37.3       149.0      -        -         -         -        50.0      20.0      50.0      17.3      49.0      -
Land Leveling                       24.9       1.3        26.2      -        -         -         -        10.2       1.3      10.0       -         6.0
Soil Erosion Control                10.3       0.5        10.8      -        -         5.0       0.5       5.8       -         -         -         -        - 
Subtotal                      1,048.5    354.2    1,402.7    37.7    12.1    306.0            92.7    458.0    161.3    375.0         78.1    166.0    10.0    30.0         -       30.0
Land Compensation                     12.2       -          12.2      1.2      -         4.0       -         4.0       -         1.0       -         1.0       -       1.0       -        -
Equipment
Farm Machinery                      75.0     25.0        100.0      -        -         -         -        40.0      10.0      30.0      15.0      30.0      -        -        -        -
Operation & Maintenance             16.5       5.5        22.0      -        -         -         -         -         -        11.0       5.5      11.0      -        -        -        -
Subtotal                         91.5      30.5        122.0      -        -         -         -        40.0      10.0      41.0      20.5      41.0      -        -        -        -
Engineering and Administration   125.5           -         125.5    18.0       -        25.0                25.0       -        25.0       -        25.0       -       4.0       -        3.5
Contingencies
Phy9i                               94.8      29.9       124.7      5.1      0.9      25.8       3.0      40.2      12.8      32.7       7.4      15.9      0.8      2.6      -        2.4      -
Pricel                              41.8      94.4       136.2      _        -        17.7    _13.7       51.9      42.3      46.8      33.9      15.4      4.5      2.1      _        2.3
Subtotal                        136.6    124.3         260.9      5.1      0.9      43.5      21.7      92.1      55.1      79.5      41.3      31.3      5.3      4.7      -        4.7
Total Irrigation Component        1.414.3    509.0    1.923.3    62.0    13.0    378.5    11S.4    619.1    226.4    521.5    139.9    264.3    15.3    39.7                     -      38.2
/1 Physical Contingencies at 7.5%.
/2  Price Contingencies compounded at 1T for local costs, and at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange costs.
X 19i



ROKANIA                                                                            tl?a   2
SAEOOA.VOD2 ASA  UIGATIM  AND AGRICU1LTUPAL DRVOOrnMUT P7ROJET
S.h.dule of eno.adit..r
iteo                                             Est.ted Total Coat               1976             1977               1978             1979             1980             1981             1982
total   Foreign,  Total    Total  Fore4n  Totol   Foreisn  Total   F-rei70     .  Total  For.W   Totl    _oa   Total  Foa...  Total
------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------ULi *ilo-------------------------------------------------------.-----
II.  Agrig1tural Cognonent
Vi.ovord
Establisbaent Coat
GEaftd Vin..                             5 7      -         9.7     _                  1.9             919        -            '.9
Fe rtilisr aod Insecticid               2.1       2.7       4.8     -        -        0.4      0.2      0        0.5      1.2      0.7     1.2      0.7     0.8      0.S     0..      0.1
Trellises ad E.cloaore                 12.1 5              12.S     -        -         2.5     -        3.0               3.       -       4.0                       -        -       -
Road. and Water                         1.2                 1.2     -                 0.6      -        0.6
Equip-nt                                1.8       0.6       2.4     -        -         1.0     0.6      1.4
Labor *0d o00r8ti0n of Eqoipseot       6.0    _             6.0      _ _               1.8     -         .8       _       1.8      *       0.6      -        1       _          _
Sobtotal                             29.3       3.3      32.6     -                  8.2     0.8      9.5      0.5      7.9     0.7      5,B      0.7     0.8      O.S      0.4     0.1
Ada,nistration Coat                        1.4      -         1.4      -       -         0.4      -       0.4       -       0.4      -       0.2
Contingeanoie
Phy At1/                                2.2       0.3       2.5     -        -         0.5     -        1.0       -       0.S      0.1     0.4      0.1      0.1     0.1      _
trti..l. 0.9                                      1.2       2.1      _       _        0.2      0.1      0,4      0.1      0.5          3   0.6      0 3      0.3     0.3      0.1     0.1
Sobtotal                              3.1       1.5       4.6     -                 0.7      0.1      1.4      0.1      1.0      0.4     1.0      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.1     0.1
Total                                33.8       4,8      38.6     -        -        9.3      0.9    11.3       0.6      9.3      1.1     7.0      1.1      1.2     0,9      0.5     0.2
rorhard
Etatbli.theot CoSt
Graftod Plsnt.                           1.0      -                 -        -         0.5      -       0.5       -       -                              -                             -
Fertilicer and I....tiide               3.5       1.2       4.7     -        -        0.5      0.1      1.2      0.3      1.2      0.3     1.2      0.3      0.6     0.2
Trellise   nd Etolosoor                  3.6      -         3.6     -        -         1.0     -        1.3       -       1.3                       -
R.od. ad Water                          1.7       -         1.7     -        -         0.9  _           0.8
LEordp-ooo                              1.4       0.4       1.8     -                  1.0     0.4      0.8       -       0        -       0 5
Labor and Op.rati.. of tqoip...t         3                          -        -31                 _    ."        _.        0.6      .       .0      ... .3.            -            
89bt1t0l                             14.3       1.6      15.9     -        -        4.9      0.5      5.6      0.3      3.1      0.3     1.7      0.3      0.6     0.2      -        -
Ad7.i.L-atL-, Co.;                          .9       -         .9      -       -         0.3      -       0.3       -       ^.2                   . 0.1                         -
Contispnoias
Phy.s1111                               1.2       0.1       t.3     -        -         0.3     .         .S               0.5      0.1      .       -        .        -       .
:ric                                    0,4       0,5       0,9     -        -         02      0.1      0,2       0,1     0.2      0.1     0.          01    O.         01    - 
Sobtotal                              1.6       0.6       2.2     -        -        0.5      0.1      0.7      0.1      0.7      0.2     0.2      0.1      0.1     0.1      -        -
Total                                16.8       2.2      19.0     .        -         5.7     0.6      6.6      0.4      4.0      0.5     2.0      0.4      0.7     0.3      -        -
Silo
Works ad Eqoipront
Site  evnlo poe.Ot                       0.9      -         0.9     .        _         0.9
OnildOog   Cod Eq tp_ot                36.0       4.7      40.7     -        -        10.0     1.0    20.7        3.7    10.0
Road. and Teln o moi-tti-os              1.0      -         1.0     -        -         0.5      -       0.5
00050 Supply                             1.9      -         1.9     -        -         1.0      -       0.9
Water Supply end OS-erag.                1.1      _         1.1     -        -         0.5      -       0.6
A..aiatad Work.  od Equiprnt           1.2        _         1.2      _       _         0.6      .        0.6
SEbtotdl                             42.1       4.7      46.0     -        -        13.5     1.0    23.3        3.7    10.0      -        -       -        -        -       -        -
E.gineariog ad Ad&in.stration              1.8      -         1.8      -       -         0.6      -       0.8       -        0.4
Cootingeoties
Phy-i                                    3.2      0.4       3.6     -        -         -        -       1.0       0.4     1.S      -
Pri0et.b                      1.1~     ~~~~     ~~~~ I.0  2.1  -  -                  0.1     1.        09       04               -        -       .        -
SobtoCal                              4.3       1.4       5.7     -        -         0.3     n I      1.7       l.S      2.2
T0t10                                48.2       6.1      54.3     -        -        14.4      1.1    27.3       5.0    12.6      -        .       -        -        -
Totl Agri..ltoral Coppoo..t                90.8      13.1    111.9      -        .       29.4      2.6    45.         . 6 2i ZI.9     1.6      9.0   1.0 ..              1 .2     0.5     3.2
LI Physioal Contiogenteo at 7.5T for .11 it-e .
/2  Prine . ontisee.tg.. i os.pounded at 1% for lo l . o.t.. L nd at B% (1977 to 19795 00d 7% (ofter 1979) foor fo-ign         aoonge .ot.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
ROMANIA                                                                         Pago 3
RSOVA-VEDEROASA iRRIGATION AND ArRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of E=.e.d4turta
It_                                            EatlEted Total Coat              1976            1977              1978              1979             1980            1981             1982
Lacl   Poretj     70 ITotal  otl  P.re.lg   Total   PoO-iCn  Total   Ioreian  Total  For.ig T  Total   ForeL-n Total  Foreign  Total  For-ign
Lt olIl
Wal. kivestgs$ Cant
Works 4W0 gqui_nt
Site Navelvpweat                       3.8       -        3.8     0.3      -        0.8       -       1.1     _        1.0              0.6    -
B"114tass d e espsipe"ot              59.0       7.8     66.8     4.9      0.6     14.6       1.7    18.2     2.1    18.2      2.1     10.9    1.3
R0.de aed Talectaaulf.4to-9            6.1       -        6.1     0.4      -        1.3       -       t.7     -        1.7     -        1.0    -        -       -                -
Poeao  Spp1y                           9.8       _        9.8     0.7      -        2.1      _        2.7     _        2.7     _        1.6
Water Supply 4ad Saeerage             12.9      _        12.9     0.9      -        2.8      -        3.5     -        3.5     -        2.2
A-e9clted Woeks                        3.9      -         3.9     0.3      -        0.8      -        1.1     _        1.1     _        0.6    -        -       -                _
Trenapaat Eqipo nt                    8.3       _    8     3     0.6      -        1.8 _             2.3                               1.3 _   _   _   _ 
SkEtotll                           103.8      7.8    111.6      8.1     0.6      24.2      1.7    30.6      2.1    30.5      2.1     18.2    1.3      -
8.9ero                                   -      219.1    219.1      -        -       36.0     36.0    57.6    57.6    62.4    62.4       63.1   63.1
hdotnttatrlQt,n CoSt                     6.2                6.2     1.0      _        1.2       .       1.2                      -        1.4    -
Phy*t Ila                              7.2      1.6       8.8     0.8      -        2.0      0.5      2.0     0.5     2.0      0.4      2.0    0.2      _
Prhtce                                 3.2     66.7      69.9     -        _        5.4      5.0    14.6    13.8    21.9    20.08      28.0   27.1
Subtotsl                            10.4     68.3      78.7     0.8      -        7.4      5.5    16.6    14.3    23.9    21.2       30.0   27.3      -
..tot                              120.4    295.2    415.6      9.9     0.6      68.8     43.2   106.0    74.0   118.2    85.7    112.7   91.7        -
Beof gattEaia* Unit.
Wonk. end Eq.ipmant
site Dleoalopowt                       0.5       -        0.5     -        -        0.2      -        0.3     -
lpildingo and Eqstpwoent              12.2       1.4     13.6     -        -        3.4     0.4       6.8     1.0      3.4
Road.  nd Tflamooutncatiout            0.6       -        0.6     -        -        0 1     -         0 3     -       0.2 2            _        -
PqwV Supply                            1.1       _        1.2     _        _        0.2      -        0.6     -       0.3
Yfteta  Supply *nd 5maerqe             2.3       -        2.3     -        -        0.6      -        1.1     -       0.6
As o-ixaed Yorks end Equip_nt          0.4       -        0.4     -        -        0.1               0.2              0.1
TrZpart Cqoip..nt                      Ij        -        1.8                                         0.9       _      0.9 9     _         _   _
Subtotla                            18.9      1.4      20.3     -        -        4.6     0.4      10.2     1.0      5.5         -    _         _        _
Adatinitertton Coot                      1.0       -        1.0     -        -        0.5      -        0.5     -        -       _          _       _        _
C-ntiygoatio
phs .1                                  .S 1,5  0.1       1.6     -        -        -       -         0.8     0.1      0.0     -       -        -       -
Palivad.                               0.5      0.3       0.8     _        -        0 1     -         0.5     0.3      0.2
Sbokotal                             2.0      0.4       2.4     _        _        0.1               1.3     0.4      1.0     -       _        _       _
Tot.l                               21.9      1.8      23.7     -        -        5.2     0,4      12.0     1.4      6.5
Verks pa E4pippeat
Sij  Re.e1o* ant                       0.9       -        0.9     0.9      -        -        -                         -                . *  _
adu{1i  ad Rqqipent                   73.4      9.8      83.2    16.2      3.0     45.0      6.8     22.0
taedp 4nd Telftooualaaitoo.            4.1       -        4.1     2.0      -        2.1               -
P-;ew  supply                          6.6      _         6.6     3.0      -        3.6      -        .       -        _       _       .        _       _
Witer Supply and Saaarage              1.1       -        1.1     0.6      -        0.5
Apao.iat*4 Woeks #d Iq.ipmnt           2.2       -        2.2     1.1      -        1.1
s.btptal                            88.3       9.8     98.1    23.8      3.0     52.3      6.8     22.0     -        -       _        -       -       _
Eneoeaeole  and Adainiatratio-           8.3                8.3      3.5     -        3.5      -        1.3
Contiageneiet
Pby 1L                                 ?.3       0.7      8.0     -        -        4.0      0.7      4.0     -        -       -        -       -       -
P.    t                               _1.6       1.3      2.9                       2.2      1.3      0.7 7            _                _       _       _
$ebtetsa                             8.9       2.0     10.9                       6.2      2.0      4.7     *        _          _       _        _       _
Tatal                              105,5      11.8    117.3    27.3      3.0     62.0      8.8     28.0
Total L4vet clk Coponat                 247.8    308.8    056.6    37.2       3.6    136.0    52.4   146.0    75.4   124.7    83.7   112.7    91.7
4   Physi.al Copaig.Ongia  at 7.51 for a-*11 ita. eoopt for heifers for  hich  -tol .tio.ey  --vered in noaber-  of heif-rs.
4&  Price Co-tingeotiee co.o.p ded st 1% for local .o.t. at   4 at 8% (1977 to 1979) aod 77. (after 1979) for for-eiag  ocho-ga toots.



RCMAIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditure
Item                                          Estimated Total Cost                1976               1977               1978                1979              1980               1981              1982
Local    Foreign    Total       Total   Foreign  Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign   Total   Foreign  Total   Foreign  Total  Foreign
Lei--------------------i-------------i----------------------------Lei million---------_____-__-__________________-_________-___________
IV.   Rural Water Supply Component
Civil Works
Wells and Pumps                       6.2      1.8         8.0       -       -         2.0       0.8      4.0       1.0       2.0       -
Mains and Water Tanks                1.0       -           1.0       _       _         0.2       -        0.4       -         0.4       -
Distribution Network                 3.5       -           3.5       -       -         0.3       -        2.0       -         1.2       -
Chlorination Equipment               -         0.5         0.5       -       -         -         -        0.5       0.5       -         -
Power Supply                         2.0       -           2.0                         0.5    _           1.0       -         0.5
Subtotal                          12.7       2.3        15.0       -       -         3.0      0.8       7.9       1.5      4.1       -
Engineering and Administration          0.6      -           0.6       -        -        0.2       -         0.2      -         0.2       -
Contingencies
Physi al/l                           1.1       0.1         1.2       -       -         0.2       -        0.5       0.1       0.5       -
Price                                0.4       0.4         0.8                     -                      0.6       0.4       0.2       -
Subtotal                           1.5       0.5         2.0       -       -         0.2       -        1.1       0.5       0.7      -         -        -         -        -       -        -
Total Rural Water Supply
Component                               14.8       2.8       17.6       -        -        3.4       0.8       9.2      2.0       5.0
Total Project Cost
Base Cost                                1,607.3    634.7    2,242.0       93.3    15.7    488.4    140.7    698.4    238.0    568.1    164.1    323.5           75.4    36.4       0.7    33.9      0.1
Physical Contingencies                     118.5      33.2       151.7      5.9      0.9      32.8      9.2      50.8      13.9     38.8       8.0      18.3       1.1     2.7      0.1      2.4      -
Price Contingencies                         49.9    165.8        215.7       -       -        26.1     20.3      70.3      57.9     70.2      55.1      44.2     32.0      2,5      0.4      2.4     0.1
GRAND TOTAL                            1,775.7    833.7    2,609.4       99.1    16.6    547.3    170.2    819.5    309.8    677.1    227.2    386.0    108.5    41.6             1.2    38.7      0.2
_           _                            _~~~~~~~~~~M     E_                   _           -       -       -        -       =_
/1  Physical Contingencies at 7.57. for all items.
/2 Price Contingencies compounded at 1% for local costs, and at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange costs.
March 1976
I Xn



ANNEX J
Table 3
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost of Irrigation Works
Item                                     Estimated Annual Cost
('000 Lei)          ('000 US$)
Operating Personnel                      9,000                450
Administration Overheads                10,000                500
Maintenance of Works                    23,000              1,150
Power Supply                            68,000              3,400
Total                                110,000              5,500
December 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment and Materials
to be Procured Following International Competitive Bidding
Item                                                Estimated    Estimated
Quantity   Unit Cost    Total Cost
------('000 Lei)--
Permanent Equipment for Works
Pumps, Motors and Auxiliary Equipment
for Main Pumping Stations                                       200,000
Pumps, Motors and Auxiliary Equipment
for Pressure Pumping Stations                                   100,000
Material for 20 kV Power Lines
and Transformer Substations                                      20,000
Subtotal ('000 Lei)                                            320,000
Subtotal ('000 US$)                                             16,000
Construction Equipment
Canal Trimming and Lining Machine          2       20,000         40,000
Dewatering Equipment                       6 sets   1,600          9,600
Motor Scraper, 11.0 m3                    15         1,600        24,000
Wheel Dozer, 180 hp                       20           800        16,000
Dragline, 1.0 m3                           3         1,000         3,000
Motor Grader, 180 hp                       4           950         3,800
Mobile Crane, 25 ton                       2         1,800         3,600
Mobile Crane, 12 ton                      10           800         8,000
Mobile Truck Crane, 12 ton                 3           900         2,700
Mobile Truck Crane, 8 ton                  3           400          1,200
Mixer Truck                               25           600        15,000
Dump Truck, 17 ton                        10           500          5,000
Batching Plant                             2         1,050         2,100
Subtotal ('000 Lei)                                            134,000
Subtotal ('000 US$)                                              6,700
Construction Materials
Asbestos Cement Pipe                                             100,000
On-farm Portable Pipe and Equipment                              150,000
Subtotal ('000 Lei)                                            250,000
Subtotal ('000 US$)                                             12,500



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 2
Item                                                  Estimated    Estimated
Quantity   Unit Cost    Total Cost
------('000 Lei)-------
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Motorcycle                                 25             7            175
Field Vehicle, 4 wheel drive                3            90            270
Dump Truck, 6.5 ton                         2           310            620
Truck, 4 wheel drive, 3 ton                 1            80             80
Truck, 4 wheel drive, 5 ton                 1            90             90
Truck, 4 wheel drive, 8 ton                 1           140            140
Tank Truck, 4 wheel drive                   1           160            160
Mobile Laboratory                           1           180            180
Mobile Workshop                             1           200            200
Motor Grader, 120 hp                        2           700          1,400
Tractor, 45-65 hp                          13           100          1,300
Trailer                                    15            40            600
Tractor Trailer, 40 ton                     1         1,300          1,300
Canal Cleaning Machine                      3           400          1,200
Excavator, 0.6 m3                           3           680          2,040
Scraper, 11.0 m'                            2         2,000          4,000
Bulldozer Attachment                        2           140            140
Scraper, 3.0 m3 bucket                      6            40            240
Mobile Crane, 5 ton                         1           300            300
Mobile Crane, 10 ton                        1           650            650
Concrete Mixer Truck                        1           325            325
Electric Generator Lighting Set             3           100            300
Miscellaneous Workshop Equipment            -             -          1,200
Miscellaneous Laboratory Equipment          -             -            240
Survey Equipment                            -             -            150
Pumps                                       -             -          1,800
Fault Detector for Pipeline                 1           200            200
Mobile Radio Equipment                                               1,500
Miscellaneous Tools                                                  1,200
Subtotal ('000 Lei)                                               22,000
Subtotal ('000 US$)                                                1,100
TOTAL ('000 Lei)                                                 726,000
TOTAL ('000 US$)                                                  36,300
March 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 2
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Farm Machinery and Implements
Item                                                Estimated   Estimated
Quantity  Unit Cost   Total Cost
-----('000 Lei)-------
Tractor, 80 hp                                25        300         7,500
Tractor, 65 hp                               160        100        16,000
Tractor, 45 hp                               190         70        13,300
Plough, tractor mounted                       70         10            700
Harrow                                       100         10         1,000
Cultivator                                    80         10            800
Rotary Cultivator                             16         25            400
Land Leveller                                 10         40            400
Seed Drill and Seeder                        270         50        13,500
Seedling Planter (for vegetables)             30         20           600
Fertilizer Distributor                        25         20            500
Crop Sprayer and Duster                       70         30         2,100
Combine Harvester                             75        250        18,750
Fodder Harvester, tractor-drawn               20         80         1,600
Fodder Harvester, self-moving                  5        300         1,500
Vegetable Harvester                           40         40          1,600
Potato Harvester                              20         10            200
Sugar beet Harvester                          10         15            150
Hay Rake                                      10         12            120
Tedder                                        10         17            170
Windrower                                     10         37            370
Baler for Hay and Straw                       50         50          2,500
Conveyor for Bales                            10         15            150
Tractor Trailer                              250         40         10,000
Tanker Trailer (for fuel)                      2         40             80
Refrigerator Truck                             4        400          1,600
Milk Tanker                                    5        180            900
Truck, Automatic Loading and Unloading         5        130            650
Truck                                         20         80          1,600
Field Vehicle                                 10         70            700
Fuel Tank                                      5        112            560
Total ('000 Lei)                                                100,000
Total ('000 US$)                                                __5_,00
March 1976



ANNEX /9
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                            at End of Quarter
(US$ million)
1976/77:
September 30, 1976
December 31, 1976                                             0.6
March 31, 1977                                                1.6
June 30, 1977                                                 5.2
1977/78:
September 30, 1977                                            9.0
December 31, 1977                                            15.9
March 31, 1978                                               24.3
June 30, 1978                                                33.7
1978/79:
September 30, 1978                                           38.1
December 31, 1978                                            41.7
March 31, 1979                                               46.3
June 30, 1979                                                48.9
1979/80:
September 30, 1979                                           50.6
December 31, 1979                                            52.2
March 31, 1980                                               54.3
June 30, 1980                                                56.4
1980/81:
September 30, 1980                                           58.2
December 31, 1980                                            60.0
March 31, 1981                                               60.0
June 30, 1981                                                60.0
March 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets and Recovery of Project Costs
A. Farm Budgets
1.        All workers on IAS are employees of the Government and are paid ac-
cording to national wage scales. The project is not expected to change wages of
State employees but it would raise incomes of members of CAPs by an average of
about 110%. Farm budgets have been prepared for two cooperatives, CAP I (Table
1) and CAP II (Table 2); the former represents a relatively high income and the
latter a low income cooperative. The following assumptions were made while
preparing these budgets:
(a) Cropping Pattern and Yields
The present cropping patterns are those that exist now in these
two cooperatives. The future patterns are those that would
evolve after irrigation and are generally in line with the
average cropping pattern for the project area described in
Annex 1. Yields of various crops are those that are given
in Annex 1, Table 2.
(b) Annual Production Costs
The annual production costs, both without and with the project,
for all project crops are given in Table 3. Since prices of all
inputs are fixed by Government, these are not directly comparable
to production costs of similar crops in other countries.
(c) Labor
An average family consists of 4.4 persons, of which two, a male
and a female, are active members.  Generally all lauor require-
ments are met by members and no labor is hired except for the
skilled labor that comes with the farm equipment furnished by
the Agricultural Mechanization Enterprises.
(d) Prices
Present and future outputs are valued at the official domestic
prices given in Annex 3, Table 1.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(e) Other Sources of Income
There are two main sources of other income:
(i)  Farming on Individual Plots.  Each family of 2 active
members is allowed to farm for personal benefit on a
plot measuring about 2,400 m2. Net income from such
a plot is assumed at Lei 1,700 (US$85) in CAP I and
Lei 2,300 (US$115) in CAP II both before and after
the project. The difference in incomes is due to
the variation in the cropping pattern.
(ii) Part-time Employment. Before the project, the two
active members in a family work for a total of 9
man-months per year elsewhere and earn Lei 9,000
(US$450) per year at an average salary of Lei 1,000
(US$50) per month. After the project, they would
be able to work for about 2 man-months and would
earn only about Lei 2,400 (US$120) per year.
(iii)  Others.  Other sources are livestock and poultry.
It is assumed that livestock and poultry would be
maintained from the produce of the individual plot,
and additional income, if any, would be negligible.
(f)  Water Charge
The water charge presently levied under the existing law,
on all irrigated areas in the CAP and IAS farms, consists
of a fixed annual charge and a variable charge. The fixed
charge varies by crops as follows:
Crop                                        Fixed Annual Charge
(Lei/ha)     (US$/ha)
Vegetables                                    190         9.50
Forage                                        183         9.15
Field Crops                                   138         6.90
Fruits                                        122         6.10
Grapes                                        122         6.10
The variable water charge, which is levied on volumetric
basis, is Lei 18 (US$0.90) per 1,000 m3. On the average,
the total water charge per cropped hectare is estimated at
Lei 220 (US$11.00).
2.        The two farm budgets are summarized in the table below:



ANNEX 1 0
Item                                            CAP I                    CAP II
Without      With         Without     With
Prolect    Prolect        Project    Prolect
Basic Data
Cropped Area (ha)                       3,170       3,700         3,650       4,240
Active Members                            545         545           957         957
Cropped Area per Member (ha)                5.8         6.8           3.8         4.4
Income from Cooperative Farmin( ---------- ( '000 Lei)----------------
Gross Value of Production               7,960      25,570         9,930      28,150
Production Costs                        4,960       8,310         6,260       9,480
Water Charges                             -           810           -           930
Total Farm Income                     3,000      16.450         3,670     17.740
Development Fund                          660       3,620/1         510       2,300/
Pension Fund                              450       2,630           550       2,300
Entertainment Fund                         10          70            10          50
Emergency Fund                             50         260            60         600
Net Income to Members                 1,830       9,870         2,540      12,490
Net Income per Member (Lei)           3,360      18,110         2,650      13,050
Incremental Income per Member (Lei)             14,750                    10,400
Percent Increase                                    440%                      390%
Other Income/2                           -------------------(Lei)------------------
Individual Plots                        1,700       1,700         2,300       2,300
Part-time Employment                    9.000       2,400         9.000       2,400
Total per Family                     10.700       4.100        11_300       4.700
Total per Member                      5 350      _206                       2,350
Total Income
Farm Income per Member                  3,360      18,110         2,650      13,050
Other Income per Member                 5.350       2,050         5,650       2,350
Total                                 8,710      20.160         8,300      15,400
Incremental Income per Member                    11,450                     7,100
Percent Increase                                    131%                       86%
Total Income Per Capita 3 (Lei)    3,960          9A7 70                    7,000
Total Income Per Capita (US$)           198         458           189         350
L   Includes interest on BAFI loans.
2 At two active cooperative members per family.
At 4.4 persons per family.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
3.        The two farm budgets indicate that the project would raise the in-
come of a CAP member from cooperative farming by about 415% (average of 440%
and 390%) from Lei 3,000 (US$150) to Lei 15,580 (US$779). At the same time
his income from other sources would reduce by 60% from Lei 5,500 (US$275) to
Lei 2,200 (US$110), because he would be left with very little or no surplus
time in which to seek part-time employment. The net result would be that
his total income would increase by about 110% (average of 131% and 86%) from
Lei 8,505 (US$425) to Lei 17,780 (US$889), which would be equivalent to
raising the per capita income in the cooperative families from US$190
(before the project) to US$400.
B. Recovery of Project Costs
Irrigation Component
4.        Investment Cost.  Government would finance all investments in the
project's irrigation component except for the on-farm irrigation equipment
for the project area, which is estimated to cost about Lei 149 million (US$7.5
million). Most of this investment would be financed through BAFI loans, which
would be recovered from the beneficiary farms in not more than 25 years. An
investment of about Lei 100 million (US$5.0 million) in farm machinery and
implements would also be recovered from the farms that use this equipment
through custom rates. Of the remaining investment 1/, Lei 1,076 million
(US$53.8 million) would be chargeable to the CAPs and Lei 461 million
(US$23.1 million) to the IASs.
5.        Operation and Maintenance Cost.   Government would also incur Lei 110.0
million (US$5.5 million) annually (Annex 7, Table 3) for the operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation works, of which about Lei 77.0 million (US$3.85 mil-
lion) would be chargeable to the CAPs and Lei 33.0 million (US$1.65 million) to
the IASs.
6.        Recovery of Costs.  Government would recover the project costs from
the CAPs and the IASs both through direct and indirect collections. The
direct recovery would consist of the water charges (para 1(f)), which would be
levied on the beneficiary CAPs and the IASs. The indirect recovery would
consist of (a) the Depreciation Fund, collected by BAFI from the IASs, (b) a
part of the annual profits made by the IASs, which is credited to the State
budget, (c) profits made by the State through the export of the tradeable
commodities produced in the project area, and (d) the incremental income tax
collected from the cooperative members due to increase in their income as a
result of the project.
1/   Excluding price contingencies.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
7.        At full development, direct recoveries from the CAPs are estimated
to amount to about Lei 12.0 million (US$0.6 million) and indirect recoveries
to Lei 65.0 million (US$3.2 million) per annum; while direct and indirect
recoveries from the IASs would be Lei 125.0 million (US$6.25 million) per
year from year 7 to 14 and Lei 139.0 million (US$6.95 million) per annum
thereafter. The streams of project induced and State financed costs which
are chargeable to, and estimated revenues which would be recovered from the
beneficiary CAPs and IASs over the assumed life of 40 years are detailed in
Table 4.
8.        The present value of all collections from the beneficiaries, dis-
counted at 10%, is estimated at Lei 1,490.0 million (US$74.5 million), about
Lei 550.0 million (US$27.5 million) of which would be obtained from the CAPs
and Lei 940.0 million (US$47.0 million) from the IASs. Taken collectively,
the direct and indirect recovery from both beneficiary organizations would
recover full operation and maintenance cost of the project and about 55% of
the investment costs at 3% interest. It would also imply that there would be
a net Government subsidy of about Lei 520.0 million (US$26.0 million). The
direct and indirect Cost Recovery Index is estimated at about 75%.
9.        Taken separately, it is estimated that the collections from the CAPs
would recover the full operation and maintenance costs chargeable to them, and
about 5% of the investment costs. Revenues collected from the IASs would, how-
ever, in addition to fully recovering their share of the operation and main-
tenance and investment costs at 3% interest, also result in a net surplus of
about Lei 310.0 million (US$15.5 million). This surplus would reduce the total
estimated subsidy of Lei 830.0 million (US$41.5 million) to the CAPs to about
Lei 520.0 million (US$26.0 million).
10.       The subsidy to the CAPs is jusified because the present income of the
beneficiaries (US$190 per capita) is below the income level of US$210 defining
the poverty target group. The project would increase this income to about
US$400, but the relative position of this increased per capita income to the
national income by 1980 and thereafter is likely to remain unchanged because of
the expected growth in the country's average per capita personal income.  For
this reason, any increase in the existing scale of water charges would not be
appropriate and is not recommended.
Other Components
11.       The agricultural, livestock, and the rural water supply components
of the project would be financed through BAFI loans (90%), savings of CAPs
(6%) and the State budget (4%). Contributions from the State budget, which
would be small, and the BAFI loans would be recovered through the normal
channels in accordance with the existing regulations, practices, and the
terms and conditions of the loans, which are flexible enough to avoid any
excessive financial burden on the borrowing entities.
March 29, 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPUZT PROJECT
Farm Budget for CAP 1I1
Item                          Cropped                 Production                Cost of           Farm
Area            Output            Value        Production         Income
(ha)             (ton)         ('000 Lei)     ----     ('000 Lei)------
Future Without Project
Wheat                        1,060             2,230            2,790          1,770            1,020
Barley                         250               520              500            310              190
Maize                          430               990            1,040            540              500
Sunflower                      420               500           1,010             750              260
Vegetables                      60               600              600            190              410
Alfalfa                         80             1,360              140            120               20
Maize (Silage)                 870            15,660            1,880          1,280              600
Total                      3,170                             7_960           4,960            3,000
Future With Project
Wheat                          620             2,790            3,490          1,510            1,980
Barley                          80               360              340            150              190
Maize                        1,320            10,560           11,090          2,380            8,710
Soybean                        210               520           1,560             420            1,140
Sunflower                      380               950           1,930             930            1,000
Sugar beet                      50             2,500           1,070             250              820
Vegetables                      90             1,440              860             370             490
Alfalfa                        330             3,300            1,650             790             860
Maize (Silage)                 620            21,700            3,580          1,510            2,070
/3
Total                      3700-                             25j570          8.310           17,260
/1  Total active members are 545.
L2  Before water charges.
3  Cropped area would change due to a 17% increase in cropping intensity.
Pecember 1975



ANX 10
Table 2
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VKDERDASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT4|
Farm Budget for CAP II
Item                        Cultivated                Production                 Cost of           Farm /2
Area            Output            Value        Production         Income-
(ha)             (ton)         ('000 Lei)      -------('000 Lei)----
Future Without Project
Wheat                        1,430             3,000            3,750           2,370            1,380
Maize                          250               570              600             310              290
Soybean                         10                10               30              20               10
Sunflower                      410               490              990             720              270
Beans                          100               110              380             120              260
Vegetables                     200             1,150            1,160             820              340
Alfalfa                        110               370              180             170               10
Maize (Silage)               1,100            19,980            2,400           1,780              620
Grapes                          30               170              440             100              340
Total                      3.640                              9,930           6,410            3,520
Future With Project
Wheat                          730             3,280            4,100           1,780            2,320
Barley                          90               400              380             170              210
Maize                        1,530            12,240           12,850           2,750           10,100
Soybean                        240               600            1,800             480            1,320
Sunflower                      440             1,100            2,230           1,070            1,160
Sugar beet                      50             2,500            1,070             250              820
Vegetables                     100             1,600              960             410              550
Alfalfa                        390             3,900            1,950             940            1,010
Maize (Silage)                 670            23,450            2,810           1,630            1,180
'3
Total                      4,215 0,9,40                                                        8 ,670
/1 Total active members 956.
/2 Before water charges
/3 Cropped area would change due to a 17% increase in cropping intensity.
December 1975



ROMAN IA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Production Costs
Item                                                                    Crop                                                                           L
Seed         Fertilizer       Protection    Transportation      Machinery            Labor        Miscellaneous           Total
---------------------------------------------------(Lei   per    ha).-----.--                 -       -     -     -
Future Without Project
Wheat                                  270            180               100              30               800                90               280              1,750
Barley                                 200            100                30              30               670                80              200               1,310
Maize                                   40            290               220              20               540               230               140              1,480
Soybean                                290            150               -                10               790               790              360               2,390
Sunflower                               40            330               310              30               760               370              280               2,120
Sugar beet                             200            600                80             200             1,170            1,210               300               3,760
Vegetables                           1,500            280               200             100               670              410               440               3,600
Alfalfa                                120            220               110             140               820              120               150               1,680
Maize (Silage)                          60            200               -               140               800               350               250              1,800
Grape                                  -              400               720             200               300            6,000             1,710               9,330
Fruits                                 -              430               600              70               220             2,000              600               3,920
Future With Project
Wheat                                  270            340               100              70             1,340              150               320               2,590
Barley                                 200            230                60              70             1,090              140               270               2,060
Maize                                   40            400               220              70               820              450               320               2,250
Soybean                                290            270               -                20            1,040               900               380               2,900
Sunflower                               40            420               310              70            1,230               480               370              2,920
Sugar beet                             200            890             1,400             560             1,170            1,130               800              6,150
Vegetables                           1,500            540               200             120             1,120              690               600              4,770
Alfalfa (Hay)                          120            270                70             100             1,300              220               550               2,630
Maize (Silage)                          60             330               -              270             1,130              440                650              2,880
Grape                                  -              500               800             200               300            8,400             1,500             11,700
Fruits                                                500               700             200               300            5,000             1,000              7,700
/I Expenses for administration and office supplies at 10-17%.
December 1975
M-



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs Chargeable to and Revenues Collected from Beneficiaries of Irrigation
Project                               CAP                                                           IAS
Year                 Costs                      Revenues                        Costs                           Revenues
Operation                                                  Operation                        Indirect
Invest-     and                Water                       Invest-     and               Water   Depre-
ment   Maintenance Total    Charges IndirectL- Total    ment   Maintenance Total   Charges  ciation  Others           Total
(Le-----------l--  -------------------------------L-  million)---------------------------------_--_----
1          43         0        43         0        0         0        19         0         19       0         0         0          0
2         253         0       253         0        0         0       108         0       108        0         0         0          0
3         334         0       334         0        0         0       143         0       143        0         0         0          0
4         276        23       299         3       20        23       119        10        129       2         0        39         41
5         119        51       170         8       47        55        50        22         72       3        14        63         80
6          26        77       103        12       61        73        11        33         44       5        14        89        108
7          26        77       103        12       65        77        11        33         44       5        14       106        125
8-14        0        77         77       12       65        77          0       33         33       5        14       106        125
15-40        0        77        77        12       65        77         0        33         33       5         0       134        139
/1 At full development, this represents incremental income taxes of Lei 5 million (US$0.2 million) and profits from
exports of Lei 60 million (US$3.0 million).
March 1976                                                                                                                              II
10



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1,,       The economic rate of return on all project investments is estimated
4t 17.4% (Table 1). Major assumptions, made for this computation, are listed
1elow:
(a) the life of the irrigation component is 40 years, and of all
other components 20 years;
(b) irrigation works would be substantially completed in 5 years
(1976-1980) except for lining of canals in loess soils, which
would be carried out in 1981 and 1982. Irrigation would com-
mence in 1979 on about one-third of project area, and all
project land would be irrigated by 1981;
(c) full project benefits would be realized in 1987, eleven years
following commencement of construction in 1976. Crop output
would be fully developed by 1984, except for grapes and fruits
(Table 2); beef output by 1981 and milk output by 1984 (Table
3); and the feedmill would be in full production by 1980;
(d) domestic costs of all tradeable equipment and materials (to be
used in project construction) are shadow priced at the interna-
tional price equivalent to adjust for the low Romanian prices;
all non-tradeables are valued using domestic prices;
(e) estimated costs of land acquisition, farm machinery and price
contingencies are excluded from the cost stream;
(f) tradeable inputs in the annual production costs (fertilizers, etc.)
are shadow priced at 40% above domestic prices; non-tradeable inputs
are evaluated at official domestic prices;
(g) the daily wage rate for unskilled labor used in the analysis
is Lei 39 (US$1.95). This is the minimum wage for unskilled
labor employed by the IAS, and is assumed to be equivalent to
the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor; and
(h) output prices, used for economic analysis, are those given
in Annex 3, Table 1.



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs Chargeable to and Revenues Collected from Beneficiaries of Irrigation
Project                              CAP                                                           IAS
Year                 Costs                      Revenues                       Costs                          Revenues
Operation                                                 Operation                       Indirect
Invest-     and                Water                      Invest-     and               Water   Depre-
ment   Maintenance Total    Charges Indirect-A Total    ment   Maintenance Total   Charges  ciation  Others          Total
---------------------------------------------------(Lei million) -------------------------------------------
1          43         0        43        0         0        0         19        0        19        0        0          0         0
2         253         0       253        0         0        0       108         0       108        0        0          0         0
3         334         0       334        0         0        0       143         0       143        0        0          0         0
4         276        23       299        3        20       23       119        10       129        2        0         39        41
5         119        51       170        8        47       55         50       22        72        3       14         63       .80
6          26        77       103       12        61       73         11       33        44        5       14         89       108
7          26        77       103       12        65       77        11        33        44        5       14       106        125
8-14        0        77        77       12        65       77          0       33        33        5       14        106       125
15-40        0        77        77       12        65       77          0       33         33       5        0        134       139
/1  At full development, this represents incremental income taxes of Lei 5 million (US$0.2 million) and profits from
exports of Lei 60 million (US$3.0 million).
March 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
The economic rate of return on all project investments is estimated
at 17.4% (Table 1). Major assumptions, made for this computation, are listed
bielow:
(a) the life of the irrigation component is 40 years, and of all
other components 20 years;
(b) irrigation works would be substantially completed in 5 years
(1976-1980) except for lining of canals in loess soils, which
would be carried out in 1981 and 1982. Irrigation would com-
mence in 1979 on about one-third of project area, and all
project land would be irrigated by 1981;
(c) full project benefits would be realized in 1987, eleven years
following commencement of construction in 1976. Crop output
would be fully developed by 1984, except for grapes and fruits
(Table 2); beef output by 1981 and milk output by 1984 (Table
3); and the feedmill would be in full production by 1980;
(d) domestic costs of all tradeable equipment and materials (to be
used in project construction) are shadow priced at the interna-
tional price equivalent to adjust for the low Romanian prices;
all non-tradeables are valued using domestic prices;
(e) estimated costs of land acquisition, farm machinery and price
contingencies are excluded from the cost stream;
(f) tradeable inputs in the annual production costs (fertilizers, etc.)
are shadow priced at 40% above domestic prices; non-tradeable inputs
are evaluated at official domestic prices;
(g) the daily wage rate for unskilled labor used in the analysis
is Lei 39 (US$1.95). This is the minimum wage for unskilled
labor employed by the IAS, and is assumed to be equivalent to
the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor; and
(h) output prices, used for economic analysis, are those given
in Annex 3, Table 1.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
2.        The economic rate of return of 17.4% was estimated by aggregating the
cost and benefit streams of all project components. Rates of return for indi-
vidual components, and results of sensitivity analysis are summarized below:
Assumption                              Economic Rate of Return in Percent
All                            Beef
Project      Irri-   Dairy    Fattening        Feed-
Components  gation   Units        Units        mill
Basic Run                          17.4      17.9      14.2       20.2         10.8
Investment Costs
Increased by 10%                15.9       16.5      12.6       19.8          9.4
Investment Costs
Increased by 15%                15.5       16.0      11.9       18.2          8.8
Benefits Decreased
by 10%                          14.6       15.9      10.9       13.1
Benefits Decreased
by 15%                          13.1       15.0       9.2       10.5
Investment Costs
Increased by 10% and
Benefits Decreased
by 10%                          13.4       14.6       9.5       12.6
March 29, 1976



ROMAN IA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams With and Withouit the Protect
1987-                                             1997-                2004-                                   2011-
Cotogo-y                             1976   1977    1978    1979   1980    1981          1982       1983      1984      1985      1986      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      2002       2093      2007      2008      2099       2910      2015
With P-oJe-t
Ionve tmen t
reigatton                      86    475        747    546    246           7        42
DairylUniis                     10      52        87    100       98
Beef Fott-ning Usits           -         5        12       6    -
Feednill                                27        60      27
Anneal Prodsetion
Irrigotion                     123    123        123      78    111        152       185       203       205       205       205       205       205       205       205        205       209       205       205       205       205        205       205
Dsiry Units                    -       -           5      16      25        37        45        48        48        49         49        49       49         49        49       -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Beef Fattening Units           -       -         -         9      15        18        18        18        18        18         t8       18         18        18        18        18
Feednill                       -       -         123    184    205         205       205       205       205       205       205       205       205       205       205       205
Openation 6x llsntenonoe
ond Replacement                 -       -         -        33      66       110       110       110       110       110        259       110       307       110       259       110       110       259       110       397       118        259       110
Total Costs                  219    682    1,157    999    766           529       605       584       586       587       736       587       784       587       736       538       315       464        315       512       315       464       315
Benefits
Irrigation                       319    319        319    395    567         778       940    1,013    1,041       1,044    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046                 1,046    1,046
Dairy                             -      -            6     21      60        94       112       115       118        118       118       118       118       118       118       -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -
Beef Fattening                   -       -         -         2      15        27        27        27        27        27         27        27        27        27        27        27
Fe_dmill _nd Silo                -       -         133    178    221         221       221       221       221       221        221       221       221       221      221        221
Total Be-.fits               319    319        458    600    863    1,120    1,300    1,376    1,407           1,410    1,412    1,412    1,412    1,412    1,412    1,294    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046    1,046                  1,046
Without Pro-est
Costs                               123    123        123    123    123        123       123       123        123       123       123       123       123       123       123       123       123       123       123       123        123       123       123
Be-efits                           319    319        310    319    319         319       319       319       319        319       319       319       319       319       319       319       319       319       319       319        319       319       319
Ineene-tal Costs
Irrigation                           86    475       747    53i    300         146       214       190       192        192       341       192       389       192       341       192       192       341       192       389        192       341       192
Dairy Units                          10      52        87    116    123          37       46        48        48         49        49        49        49        49        49       -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Beef  attening sUnit                -         5        12     15      15        18        18        18        18         18        18        18        18        18        18        18
Feedmill                            -       27       183    211    205         205       205       205       205        205       205       205       205       205       205       205
Total Increentnl Costs             96    559    1_034    876    643          406       683       461       463       464        613       464       661       =64       613       415       192       331       192        89        192        41        92
Increemenral BeenRfite
Lrrigation                         -       -         -        80    248        459       621       694       722       725       527       727        727      727       727        727       727       727       727       727       727        727       727
Dairy                               -      -            6     21      60        94       112        119      118        118       119       118       118       118       118       118       -         -         -         -          -         -         -
3ef Fattening                       -      -          -        2      15        27        27        27         27        27        27        27        27        27        27        27
Feedmill and Sile                   -      -         133    179    221         221       221       221       221        221        21       221       221       221       221       221
Totol  looe-netiol Blonnlits     -                 139    281    544         801       981    1,058    1.988    1.091    193           1.093    1.093    1_093    1_093    1_093            727       77                   27       727        727       727
Economic  Rate of RotorL-                 b
At Il Prject Conponoot                  17.4
lerigaCi-,,                           17.9
9airy linris                          14.2                                                                                                       I!
BoE  F.attOning Uonits                20.2
Fecdmill                              10.8
Manch 1978



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Crop Output After Irrigatio /
Item                                                                                                                  1987-
1979       1980        1981       1982        1983        1984       1985        1986        2015
----------------------------------------- '000 tons)----------------------------------------
Crop
Wheat                   45.4        44.3       40.8        47.6       50.4        51.3        51.3       51.3        51.3
Maize                   64.8      116.5       183.2       227.4      246.4       253.6       253.6      253.6       253.6
Barley                   3.8         3.4        2.9         3.3        3.5         3.6         3.6         3.6        3.6
Soybean                  4.3         4.9        5.5         6.5        7.0         7.2         7.2        7.2         7.2
Sunflower                7.8         8.6        9.3        10.7       11.3        11.5        11.5       11.5        11.5
Sugar beet              43.7        86.7      143.0       172.6      185.5       190.0       190.0      190.0       190.0
Vegetblese1              7.0        16.0       26.2        29.9       31.8        32.4        32.4       32.4        32.4
Fruit-                   1.7         3.0        4.1         4.9        5.4         5.6         5.6        5.6         5.6
Grape                    1.6         1.9        2.6         3.7        4.9         6.3         7.4        8.1         8.4
Alfalfa (Hay)           22.7        33.1       46.8        56.9       61.3        63.0        63.0       63.0        63.0
Maize (Silage)         135.4       216.8      320.9       367.8      388.2       395.5       395.5      395.5       395.5
By-product
Wheat Straw             45.4        44.3       40.8        47.6        50.4       51.3        51.3       51.3        51.3
Barley Straw             4.9         4.4        3.7         4.3         4.6        4.7         4.7        4.7         4.7
Maize Cobs             109.5       196.9      309.6       384.4      416.4       428.6       428.6      428.6       428.6
Soybean Stalk            6.4         7.3        8.2         9.6       10.4        10.7        10.7       10.7        10.7
Sunflower Stalk          3.0         3.3        3.5         4.0        4.3         4.4         4.4        4.4         4.4
Sugar beet Leaves       15.3        30.3       50.0        60.4       64.9        66.5        66.5       66.5        66.5
/1  Prior to introduction of irrigation (1976-1978), yield would remain virtually the same as the present
or future without the project.
December 1975                                                                                                                t



ROMANIA
RASOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy and Beef Fattening Unit,-'
Development of Milk and Meat Output
Category                     1976-77 1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986      1987-96
Dairy Units
Milk ('000 liters)             0    2,200    8,500    15,200    23,003    27,500    28,500    29,000    29,000    29,000    29,000
Cull Cows                      0       42       189        402        711        954      1,131      1,122      1,122      1,122      1,122
Pregnant Heifers              0         0         0        342        810      1,260      1,696      1,615      1,594      1,573      1,573
Non-pregnant Heifers          0         0         0         86        205        319        429        408        402        396        396
Calves (Male)                 0       662    1,637       2,603      3,551      3,497      3,470      3,443      3,443      3,443      3,443
By-products
Calves (Dead Heifers)/2   0          14        33         51         69         66         66         66         66         66         66
Other Dead Animals
(Older than 1 year)/.    0          28        86       160        238        274        286        286        286        286         286
Manure ('000 tons)          0        16        34         80        120        150        153        153        153        153        153
Beef Fattening Units
Fattened Calves               0         0       222      2,886      5,328      5,328      5,328      5,328      5,328      5,328      5,328
By-products
Dead Animals/2              0         0        18        324        432        432        432        432        432        432        432
Manure ('000 tons)          0         0         2         30         55         55         55         55         55         55         55
/1  Represents output which would be sold.  It does not include replacement heifers retained by the dairy units.
/2 The State compensates farms for the dead animals.
March 1976



ROMAN IA
RASOVA - VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Danube River Flow Patterns
14,000                                                                    1                                                          -
13,000   .
12,000WT
11,000   _ _ _  __               _ _ _                                                              _ _  _                _   _  _
1oooo t,000                                                      t         7Y1940-41 (Typical Wet Year)
9,000                                   .       -                                    I                 1943-44 (Typical Normal Year)
WET
8,000                                   -       -                                                     -
7,000                               -  -                      (yi                                                   a DyYr
I
o 6,000
1,00NORMAL         N O    A L
2,000                           DRY- 
W.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~942'-43 (Typical Dry Year)
1,000                                                                    1-MA
Oct.       Nov.        Dec.       Jan        Feb.       Mar.        Apr.       May        June       July        Aug.       Sept.
World Bank-15360






ROMANIA
RASOVA - VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR               1976              1977             1978            1979              1980             1981             1982
ROMANIAN FISCAL AND CALENDAR YEAR              1976             1977             1978             1979             1980             1981             1982
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS
Main Pumping Stations                              * -
Pressure Pumping Stations                                                  I _
Power Supply
Canals and Structures                          --
Distribution Pipelines
On-Farm Works
Soil Erosion Control
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT
Construction Equipment & Materials
Operation & Maintenance
Farm Machinery
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
VINEYARD
Establishment
Maintenance                                                _
ORCHARD
Establishment                                                                                                                       ..EIIE.I
Maintenance
SILO
Construction
LIVESTOCK COMPONENT
DAIRY UNITS
Construction                               _                                   I   I
Procurement of Heifers
BEEF FATTENING UNITS
ConstruCtion
FEEDMILL
Construction
RURAL WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT (Gross Hal                                                               20600           40,300            6,400           65,400
_  _  ___im Continuation of maintenance and construction activities following completion
World Bark.1153i'IiR)






ROMANIA
RASOVA - VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
M   ry f   dank for Agriculture  Mmistry s Agric ltur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ceroot Gnea
-   *   .mIF-,p^d'sw            and (^^z/lAut-rve                                                      {   ){)atconulWjlater~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lanig rr Dveopen
D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GD
1 v ; ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ C n t u t i n T u t   G n o u c  t Or;  S i e r i e r i   t R e c aa t i n S u   1 ; E n r p i s  l; ;  O ptr O r a tO P r. t O      D i s tr i u et  o f  tr e t u e e   |o t t t   f|   S td i e s .   C o n s t r u c t i ono f
E - gyrpris        OePartm entc ...sz|uttion t. l                                                                                            ofrke rirg  o irk s  Agr vul ture                      and               Trn i
b  IDlfCA)           (CELIFI                       _                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OGPDI
O.  I                                                d                                                    H      
|u  oL'dt R.).s                                       S d-        Cl    g Ceners        DProfte   Units    l  Cco r tel              Enterprises       S EnterAgise
|   I {CAPtI         l A ESMAr)           IIASs






PP'N                          jy                                           , .-I-_ ,---B. IBRD    118IO
t / / \kC0RNk  E  >g,: g; ''-                            0 ' '\         ss'\-2ClOCiRtADX   RAOVA-VEDEROASA IRRIGATION AND  
AG\<  ,                  WaIFS                      P00MRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT   7
1~~~~~~~~~~ k)A '                                               0                                                                       i~X_
2  '-"'                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..AII I
0' ........._ .. ;i.w<./         PP                                                  1                 ,/          ar W   
A. ('E.              ,.' Ckne-t                                                 t                   ;    \IP I
-  /   ,   I                                                     oo~~5,iz,           P        ,T- -   -
I~~~a/o  0  5OLPAOOC>ON~~~~~~~~"I01
DL17aA  p                I                                                                                                                                            ' g _  (HE&a4TEC CHO N_ ruMrtlFT  | ;   - '  \  X  wF-  R O  ANSTAF T4 I/ A
If                                                          -
7rNE,M             RAP/w  Im SrT                                                               05aHT t0 05M  * OJOvh/ANPF O TPOLON r 
LEE'    CC ,,                                                                                      '-.    LM,TI  A,     A   FIRS
-L EE "T" "--'T""'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IFPPPSOMPUPNGSORP
-  PLFOPNP,I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... 



