Document of              r
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2348-KE
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
NAROK AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 17, 1978
Thi do_meuf bh  a restricted ditibuMto and may be usd by recipients only I. the performnce of
thde  o l dde  lb clb tet   may nd othemise be dslbed  witbout Wod Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =         Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$1.00                =         K Sh 8.0
K Sh 1.00              =         US$0.125
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 K Sh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to K Sh 8.0 which is close
to the average 1978 exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       =    Agricultural Finance Corporation
CIDA      =    Canadian International Development Agency
DAO            District Agricultural Officer
FTC            Farmer Training Center
GMR       =    Guaranteed Minimum Return Program
IADP           Integrated Agricultural Development Program
NADP           Narok Agricultural Development Project
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOW       =    Ministry of Works
WBK       =    Wheat Board of Kenya
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30
AFC        - April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
NAROK AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Kenya
Beneficiary:         Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
Amount:              US$13.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    US$7.3 million of the IDA Credit would be relent to AFC
for an indefinite period with interest of up to 5% per
annum.  AFC would in turn lend to farmers at not less
than 10% interest per annum for medium-term loans and
11% per annum for seasonal credit. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Government.
Project              The Project would be the first stage of a long-term
Description:        (10-20 year) program for development of mixed farming
in Narok District. It would include: development
of improved extension services for crops and livestock
and farmer training; improved credit services for
mixed farming; seasonal credit for wheat and rapeseed
inputs and medium-term credit for farm development;
development, upgrading and maintenance of access and
feeder roads; soil conservation measures and develop-
ment of tree nurseries; a wildlife control program to
limit damage to crops by wild animals; studies to
establish baseline data on the district, monitoring
and evaluation of Project progress, and studies and
field trials to prepare projects for the future
development of Narok District. The Project faces no
major financial risks. However, implementation delays
could result from management difficulties and a slower
than expected rate of participation in the credit
program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
11S$ million
Local       Foreign      Total
Extension Services and Farmer Training          2.1           0.7         2.8
AFC Credit Services                             0.2           0.1         0.3
Seasonal and Medium-Term Credit                 2.2           4.6         6.8
Road Development                                0.8           0.5         1.3
Soil and Water Conservation                     0.4           0.6         1.0
Wildlife Control                                0.2           0.3         0.5
Technical Services                              0.2           0.8         1.0
Subtotal                                    6.1           7.6        13.7
Contingency Allowances
Physical                                    0.7           0.8         1.5
Price                                       1.6           2.1         3.7
Total Project Costs                         8.4          10.5        18.9
Project Cost net of Taxes and Duties        8.3          10.5        18.8
Financing Plan:
US$ million         %
Local Foreign Total
Government of Kenya                      3.4     -      3.4     18
Farmers                                  1.0     -      1.0      5
CIDA                                       -    1.4    1.4       8
IDA                                     3.9    9.1   13.0       69
Total Costs (excluding taxes)            8.3   10.5   18.8    100
Taxes                                    0.1    -       0.1
Total Project Costs                     8.4   10.5   18.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year 1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                                0.2    1.6    3.2    4.0    3.0    1.0
Cumulative                            0.2    1.8    5.0    9.0   12.0   13.0
Rate of Return:       13%
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 2091-KE, dated October 27, 1978
Map:                  IBRD 13480



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE NAROK AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$13.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural development
project for Narok District. IDA funds for farmer credit amounting to US$7.3
million would be onlent to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) for
financing its future farm development lending program in Narok District. The
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) will provide US$1.4 million
equivalent as a grant to assist in financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1783a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic
Economic Report on Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete
the report returned from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. More recently, policy statements have suggested an
increasing emphasis on poverty alleviation measures even at the cost of a
slight reduction in the rate of economic growth. With the death of President
Kenyatta there is inevitably some uncertainty about the future but preliminary
indications are that the main outline of Kenyan development strategy will
remain the same.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for 29% (constant prices) of GDP on average during the period 1975-77.
1/   This section is substantially the same as that of the President's
Report on the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Report P-2395-KE
of October 18, 1978).



-2-
Agriculture provided over 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in rural areas.
5.        Growth of the economy since independence has been impressive.  From
1964-73 total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6%. Manufacturing was
the most rapidly growing of the major sectors during the period; value added
in manufacturing increased by 8.4% per annum and the share of the manufactur-
ing sector rose from 10.4% of GDP in 1964 to 13.6% in 1973. Agricultural
growth contributed to the strong overall performance as well. Agricultural
output increased by over 50% from 1964-73, or at an average annual rate of
4.5%. Marketed production in agriculture grew especially fast (6.0% per
annum) but subsistence production also grew faster than population during
the period.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a
number of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain
growth and to reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of popul2tion in
th2 face of limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years fol-
lowing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously
owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted
in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. These problems help to
account for the slackening in recent years of the previously high agricultural
growth rate, which fell from 4.5% per annum from 1964-73 to 2.3% per annum
from 1973-77.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of
the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in 'the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To
a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However, the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have



been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector in-
creasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export. This will be difficult,
however, because existing industry has been developing under high protection
and is relatively uncompetitive in world markets.
10.       An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a reflection
of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also an indica-
tor of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange earning activi-
ties. A combination of slow export growth and continued high import dependence
would leave the Kenyan economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in the terms of
trade.
Developments since the 1974-75 Crisis
11.       The Kenyan economy was disrupted by import price increases and by
drought in 1974-75. Marketed agricultural production did not grow at all
in 1974 and 1975 while total GDP grew at only 1.6% per annum. The value of
imports increased by more than 50% over the 1973 level and the balance of
payments position deteriorated. The crisis highlighted the extent to which
Kenya, with its import-intensive manufacturing and limited domestic energy
resources, had become dependent on imports.
12.       The Government made several policy changes to deal with the crisis.
First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign exchange re-
serves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in sales
taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to users,
and a freeze on Government recruitment. Second, since its Development Plan
had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest growth and equity targets. Achieving those targets
required restraining consumption in favor of investment, lowering Kenya's
high import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented.
13.       There was a marked improvement in the economy in 1976 and 1977,
though this was largely due to external circumstances rather than to the
effects of the Restructuring Program, most of whose effects are longer-range.
Favorable weather conditions helped agricultural output to grow by nearly 8%
during the two years and high coffee and tea prices transformed the balance
of payments position. The volume of coffee exports increased by nearly 40%
between 1975 and 1977 while the average price received more than quadrupled.
The balance of payments moved into surplus in 1976 and in 1977 there was a
surplus on current account, the first in thirteen years.



- 4 -
14.       The coffee boom also had numerous secondary repercussions.  High
coffee incomes stimulated activity in manufacturing and other sectors, and
also helped directly and indirectly to finance an investment boom; gross fixed
capital formation rose by 22.6% in real terms between 1975 and 1977. The
effect on domestic savings was even more dramatic; the ratio of domestic
savings to GNP rose from 12.5% in 1975 to 18.7% in 1976 to 22.7% in 1977.
Finally, current revenue of the Government increased by about 50% during the
budget year 1977/78. This was matched, however, by an increase in recurrent
expenditure, while development expenditure increased by at least 40% according
to preliminary estimates. In real terms total Government expenditure increased
by more than 20%. This increase was greater than anticipated because of unex-
pected large increases in defense expenditure and because of heavy investment
in transportation equipment occasioned by the break-up of the East African
Community.
15.       As a result of these generally expansionary conditions a short-term
macro-management problem has emerged. The total supply of money and quasi-
money expanded by 46.8% during 1977. Consumer price increases accelerated,
with price increases in 1977 ranging from 13.5% for the Nairobi Middle Income
Index to 21.0% for the Nairobi Lower Income Index. Imports also grew rapidly
during the first few months of 1978 at the same time as coffee prices declined
well below the level of early 1977. The full effect of past monetary expan-
sion has probably not yet been realized and continued pressure on domestic
prices and import demand can be expected. In order to restore domestic and
external stability, it may be necessary to pursue more restrictive monetary
and budgetary policies in the near future.
16.       Of more long-term significance is implementation of the Restructur-
ing Program. The Government has made good progress but there are some areas
in which further action is needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced
procedures to ensure better control of expenditure and increased expenditure
in directly productive activities. However, as noted above, unanticipated
expenditures have temporarily put renewed pressure on the budget. The Govern-
ment has also emphasized agricultural sector development and taken a variety
of measures to improve performance in this sector. Periodic producer price
increases and a strong wages policy have helped to shift the terms of trade
between agriculture and manufacturing in favor of agriculture by over 100%
during the past three years after a long period during which they had moved in
favor of manufacturing; even if coffee is excluded the improvement was close
to 50%. However, the Government has been slow to formulate and implement
badly needed new policies in the industrial field. While it introduced duties
on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods as steps
towards a more rational protection system, increased the sales tax on luxury
goods, introduced an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate the export of manufac-
tured goods and certain commodities, and devalued the shilling in October 1975
to make manufactured exports more competitive, a comprehensive policy package
to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries operate
remains to be formulated.



5-
Development Plan FY79-83
17.       Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period will be alleviation of poverty
through the creation of income earning possibilities and by providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Thus, while the Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity in Kenya's
development strategy, there would be greater attention paid to social objec-
tives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third Plan.
At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in developing
strategies in urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
18.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations) is
expected to rise to about 11.5% by 1985. Including this share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 29% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and
IDA 11%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 33% and the IDA share to 12% by
1985. Debt service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service
payments; IDA share is about 1%. These two figures are projected to be about
the same by 1985. Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans
to straight grants (including conversions of some loans to grants 1/) or to
loans on very concessional terms and the Government has pursued a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 18% of Gross Domestic
Income, it is projected that Kenya's development program will require substan-
tial finance in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external
capital and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a sub-
stantial proportion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
19.       Recent developments of the East African Community were outlined in
a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312). The
de facto breakup of the EAC has had some impact on Kenya's budget initially.
The establishment of national corporations to replace the former East African
Community Corporations required investment outlays as well as operating
subsidies from the Government,, but the burden on the Government budget will
hopefully be temporary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania will have some effect
on trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods and
new markets will have to be developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were
small replacing these should not be a major issue except in specific commodi-
ties (i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also a slightly
1/    Since the amounts involved so far have been relatively small, the impact
of these conversions on the debt service ratio and on the Bank's expo-
sure has been marginal.



- 6 -
negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
20.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 29 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 25 IDA credits amounting to US$752.1 million, supporting 46
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of October 31, 1978.
21.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In addition to increasing lending in directly productive sectors
(particularly agriculture), a US$30 million program loan was approved in 1975
to provide direct assistance to the Government for implementing its Restruc-
turing Program (para. 12 and 16). While recent sector and economic work has
also focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to com-
prehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
22.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsis-
tence farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive
infrastructural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up
significant new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism
sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya con-
serve its wildlife and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential. The
industrial lending program included a third loan to the Industrial Development
Bank and a Small Scale Industry Project. Recently a Fourth Education Project,
a Water Supply Project for Nairobi, a Second Urban Project and an Engineering
Project (Olkaria Geothermal) were approved. Negotiations for a Sugar Rehab-
ilitation Project and a Rural Water Supply Project have been completed. In
the near future, further support to the agriculture sector is expected to
include a smallholder coffee improvement project, a second integrated agri-
cultural development project and a pilot scheme for development of arid and
semi-arid areas. In addition, a telecommunications project, a highway sector
loan and a further power project are contemplated.
23.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suf-
fering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently
increased beef prices substantially and prospects for utilizing the credit



have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners
to participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most
notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects. The
Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
24.       IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of October 31, 1978, IFC held for its own account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity.
A summary of IFC investments in Kenya as of October 31, 1978 is included in
Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
25.       Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety in
systems of production which reflect the different ecological zones and the
patterns of land holding and population distribution. About 90% of the
population of 14.4 million is classified as rural and mainly dependent upon
agriculture for its livelihood. A broad distinction can be made between
the large farming sector, including Government farms, and the smallholder
sector which employs the great majority of the rural population. The Govern-
ment defines small farms as those with 20 ha and less; there are about 1.5
million such smallholdings in Kenya. Most smallholdings are farmed by their
owners; about 20% are considered progressive commercial farmers, another 20%
are in a transitional stage between subsistence and commercial production, and
the balance of some 60% are subsistence farmers. Maize is the staple crop,
but smallholders also produce beans, coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds,
livestock, milk, potatoes and fruit. Large and medium scale farms (those
larger than 20 ha), occupy about 2.7 million ha, compared with 3.5 million ha
for small farms. There are about 1,000 large farms with holdings in excess
of 400 ha each, and somewhat over 2,000 medium-scale farms of 20-400 ha each.
Virtually all production systems for these farms are oriented to commercial
markets, producing a wide range of crops, notably wheat, sisal, and maize,
in addition to cattle ranching.
26.       The share of the agricultural sector in total GDP has declined
from 40% in 1964 to 28% in 1977 in constant prices. This has principally
resulted from the fast expansion in other sectors, notably the manufacturing
and supply industries. Growth in agriculture as a whole remained below the
1964-73 rate (4.5%), notwithstanding Government efforts to develop this
sector. This is in large part explained by unfavorable weather conditions
since 1973. Even in 1976, which was generally a good year, difficult weather
conditions in some parts of the country had an overall dampening effect on the



sector's performance. Agricultural exports, the single most important sec-
toral contributor to total exports, increased from 50% of the total in 1975 to
almost 62% in 1977, reaching a total of about US$792 million. Rising coffee
prices had the dominant effect on the overall increase in the value of exports
(27% of total exports in 1976 versus 15% in 1975). Kenya's principal agricul-
tural exports include coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat, dairy products,
hides and skins, cotton, wool, nuts, and animal feeds. Kenya still imports
significant quantities of agricultural products, notably wheat and edible oils.
Government Strategy
27.       The Government's development objectives for agriculture have been
defined as follows: (a) to achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural products;
(b) to increase both the output and productivity of export commodities; (c)
to diversify output to spread the risks of price fluctuation; and (d) to
develop, through integrated programs, the socia1 and physical infrastructure
for both cash and food crops, thereby raising incomes and living standards
in the poorer parts of the country. The fourth Five-Year Development Plan
for 1979-83 places renewed emphasis on the alleviation of poverty by offering
income earning opportunities and providing for basic needs in nutrition,
health, education, and other social services. The Government's policy for
self-sufficiency in essential food crops is being emphasized through pricing
policies and small farm development projects. Since 1974, these activities
have encouraged surplus maize production, ensuring a strategic reserve (now
180,000 tons) and developing export capacity. In 1975, sugar and wheat were
also selected for self-sufficiency programs. In addition, in 1977 the Govern-
ment decided to speed up the drive for self-sufficiency in cotton, tobacco and
edible oils.
28.       The agricultural development strategy addresses the problems of both
the large and small farm sectors; it is clear that both will continue to play
a significant role in contributing to the growth of production for the fore-
seeable future. Services and projects thus aim to support the development of
and meet the needs of both sectors. The Integrated Agricultural Development
Program (IADP) was initiated as the main vehicle for supporting small farm
development, especially for farmers outside the cash economy. For more
advanced farmers, the Third Agricultural Credit Project is designed for both
small and medium scale farms; multi-owner farms may benefit from the Group
Farms Rehabilitation Project. The Bank Group has financed part of each of
these projects. The proposed Project aims to foster the development of mixed
farms in the middle range (20-100 ha) in the Narok district, an area of high
and largely unexploited potential.
Government Services
29.       Government agricultural strategy is carried out through five minis-
tries and 15 statutory production boards. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
has the primary responsibility for agricultural development and farmer ser-
vices. The Ministry of Cooperative Development supervises cooperative or-
ganizations and provides them with management advice. The Ministry of Lands
and Settlement is responsible for land adjudication, legal division and



- 9 -
consolidation of all farm land. The Ministry of Works and the Ministry of
Water Development provide and maintain crop extraction roads and rural water
supplies, respectively. The statutory boards involved in agriculture are
either general, as the Maize and Produce Board, which trades in most food
crops, or crop-specific, e.g. the Wheat Board of Kenya (WBK). The initiation
and implementation of development projects is being decentralized through
the increased use of the District Development Committee which approves and
monitors development projects at the district level.
30.       Agricultural Extension Services.  Agricultural extension work in-
volves most of MOA's technical divisions. MOA headquarters is responsible
for overall policy decisions and administration, but field operations are
directed from the provincial level and are organized and coordinated on a
district basis, under the District Agricultural Officer. Within limits set
by Government policy, provincial extension services have a high degree of
autonomy. Most extension staff have in the past specialized in crop produc-
tion. However, services were reorganized in 1976 and extension agents at
farm level now act as generalists; the emphasis is on improved management of
the farm as a whole. Current extension staff number about 11,000 for Kenya,
and the average number of holdings per officer is about 230. In the past,
the principal problems of extension services have been poor communications,
notably transport, an unbalanced mix of specialist skills, lack of in-service
training, and limited continuity due to frequent transfers of personnel. The
recent reorganization of extension services and several ongoing development
projects address these problems. Specifically, the Government aims to in-
crease extension coverage in key development areas, to provide better trans-
portation and allowances and to improve housing facilities in remote areas
for extension officers, to provide more information to farmers in support of
extension work, and to strengthen in-service training programs for extension
staff.
31.       Agricultural credit is available through a number of institutions in
the organized credit market and individuals operating in an informal market.
Five types of credit institutions can be distinguished: (a) commercial banks
which provide working capital and development credit channelled largely to
medium or large-scale farmers; (b) the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
which gives loans to large as well as small-scale farmers; (c) cooperative
banks which provide development and seasonal loans to their members; (d)
parastatal organizations such as crop or produce boards which provide seasonal
loans or medium-term loans mainly for the development of cash crops; and (e)
other institutions which provide suppliers' credit such as the Kenya Farmers'
Association and the Kenya Breweries.
32.       In the project area (Narok District), credit to farmers is currently
available from three principal sources: AFC, WBK, and the Kenya Breweries.
At present, a high proportion of agricultural credit goes to non-Masai farmers,
the tenant "telephone" farmers who live outside the district. AFC has a
relatively small branch office in Narok with about 900 accounts; virtually all
are Guaranteed Minimum Return accounts, that is, part of a Government seasonal
credit and crop insurance program. Of these, however, only about 200 are



- 10 -
active borrowers, the remainder are dead accounts mostly in arrears. AFC
plans to phase out the GMR gradually over the next few years, replacing it
with a direct AFC seasonal credit program. WBK has a special project which
provides seasonal credit for wheat production in Narok District; over 80% of
its borrowers are tenant farmers, most from outside the District. WBK has
financed this project on a largely provisional basis in the past and this will
continue in the 1978-79 growing season. The future of the Wheat Board Scheme
is, however, uncertain, as WBK does not view the credit activities as central
to its normal operations. It is likely that this scheme will also be grad-
ually phased out, as other programs for seasonal and medium term credit are
developed. The Kenya Breweries finances barley production; in 1976/77,
seasonal credit for this purpose was provided to about 900 farmers in Narok
District. The Breweries program is efficiently managed and has been effective
in increasing production of barley. It is expected that it will continue in
the future.
Narok District and Project Area
33.       Narok District, which is part of the Rift Valley Province, is
located in southwest Kenya. Population is conservatively estimated at about
213,000, but is probably closer to 270,000 in 1978. Overall population
density is about 12 per sq. km . Narok District has a complex ecology, with
wide variation in topography, soils, and climate; in fact, four of Kenya's
major ecological categories are found there. The District is dominated by
vast plains in the center and south which have traditionally been used for
cattle grazing. Wildlife still occupy much of the area, notably the Masai
Mara Game reserve. However, there are also three higher altitude areas with
higher rainfall and good soils. Mean annual rainfall averages from about
1,700 mm in the northeastern part to 450 mm in the southeastern part of the
district, and varies considerably from year to year, with occasional serious
droughts. Most soils in Narok District are deep and well developed. In
general, these soils have low susceptibility to soil erosion. However, on the
steep slopes gully erosion can be found with landslide hazard if the land is
left bare.
34.       Masai are the dominant ethnic group in the District.  In areas
close to the District boundary and in rural centers, the population is less
homogenous. The land tenure is quite complex and is in a state of transition.
Formal land adjudication, leading to issue of title deeds to land, did not get
underway in Narok District until 1967. The first land adjudication section
was finalized in 1970 and registration has been completed in only about 30%
of the District. Elsewhere, land adjudication is in progress and will take at
least five more years to complete. The Government has to date encouraged the
group registration of lands, largely on the assumption that this reflected
traditional land tenure practices. Most of the lower altitude grazing areas
are being registered as group ranches and registration in arable areas has
also been largely on a group basis. However, as wheat production has deve-
loped, there has been a strong tendency to subdivide group holdings, and this



- 11 -
has been accepted in principle by the Government. Analysis of land adjudica-
tion registers in two land adjudication sections dominated by wheat production
indicates that although there is a considerable range in farm size, a sub-
stantial proportion of holdings (about 55%) are between 20 and 50 ha. The
recent introduction of large scale wheat and barley production in the Mau
area has led to a tenure system where landowners lease land to non-resident
tenants for farming. Leases are normally for short duration (one year), and
in theory must be approved by the County Council.
35.       In general, Narok has been relatively neglected in Kenya's national
development programs and basic services and infrastructure in the District
remain very limited. Development efforts have to date focused on cattle,
largely involving promotion of group ranches, and on exploitation of potential
for wheat production in the Mau Narok area. In the past, development has been
rather disorganized and initiated almost entirely by entrepreneurs from out-
side the District and there has been concern that tenant farmers have been
"mining" the land, threatening to provoke serious soil erosion. Two wheat
schemes previously organized for the Masai have been unsuccessful, reportedly
because of mismanagement and a lack of involvement of the local people. This
has left a legacy of suspicion of outside programs and influence which must be
overcome in future projects. The development of Narok District poses diffi-
cult administrative and social problems. The transition from the traditional
economy of the Masai - a nomadic way of life where cropping is normally
disdained - to a more modern system of agriculture and a general settled way
of life is indubitably occurring; in many instances with surprising rapidity.
There are increasing numbers of energetic, shrewd Masai entrepreneurs who are
growing wheat, even while they expand their cattle herds in the plains area.
Local officials argue convincingly that the time has come for the Masai to
reexert control over their land and to take over wheat production, in par-
ticular, from outsiders. This development will, however, occur gradually, and
it would be risky to force the pace of change too quickly, as it could foster
serious financial problems for Masai farmers who moved unprepared into new
agricultural enterprises. Further, wheat development should be fully inte-
grated into the District's development plans, and the links between ranching
in the plains and wheat production in the higher areas should be more clearly
recognized in preparation of future development schemes. The issue of income
distribution within the District is also assuming increasing importance as
land adjudication introduces increasing rigidity into traditional patterns of
distribution of wealth. The proposed Project is therefore explicitly designed
as the first phase of a long-term development program, and the preparation of
future projects and basic studies of the District's economy and society are an
essential component.
Crop Production and Livestock
36.       The areas most suitable for crop production in Narok District -
based on soil and rainfall considerations - are located in the Mau area in the
northeast (see map), where cultivation has been expanding rapidly during the
last ten years, the Kilgoris area in Masai Siria and possibly the Loita Hills
in the south. The major crops in the District are wheat, barley, maize and



- 12 -
potatoes. The estimated crop area in the District is 43,000 ha (1976/77).
Wheat production in Narok District is concentrated in the highlands of the Mau
Division. Yields vary from 1,500 to 3,400 kg per ha depending on climatic
conditions and the level of crop husbandry. Areas under wheat have increased
from about 12,000 ha in 1974-75 to about 29,000 ha in 1977-78, and production
from 21,000 tons to an estimated 40,000 tons in the same period. Wheat is
grown largely on ridges, where land has been cleared; an estimated 80-90% of
wheat is at present produced by tenant farmers, most of whom live outside the
District and operate through contractors. Recent soil surveys and aerial
mapping suggest that additional land available for cultivation in the Mau
area is limited (perhaps 7%); elsewhere, slopes are generally too steep for
mechanical cultivation without severe risk of soil erosion. Therefore, most
increased production will in the future be tied to increasing yields in
existing wheat areas, with some limited expansion into suitable new land.
Improvement of roads in the key wheat areas should also assist in increasing
production by facilitating access to farms and marketing of wheat. Rapeseed
cultivation is relatively new in Narok District, but promises to expand
because of favorable returns. Barley production has expanded rapidly, with
the promotional efforts of the Kenya Breweries. In 1978-79, about 900 farmers
had an estimated 10,200 ha under barley in Mau Division; this represented
about 30% of national barley hectarage.
37.       Livestock.  The major part of Narok District receives less than
700 mm rainfall annually, making it more suitable for livestock production
than for crop production. Current livestock operations are concentrated in
these areas but it also dominates in some higher potential areas like the
Loita Hills and the Kilgoris area. The majority of the Masai population in
Narok District depend on livestock for their livelihood. The animals are
herded in the traditional way but group ranches, directed towards commer-
cial cattle production, are gradually being established. Commercial dairy
production caters to the Narok township population only. Livestock migration
between lower and higher altitude areas following rainfall patterns, which
was a common practice in the past, is now more restricted as a result of the
expanding crop hectarage in the higher altitude areas. Most farmers in the
Project area own cattle, sheep and goats and graze them on non-arable land,
stubbles, and land that is being left fallow. Livestock are important to
the owners but are secondary to crop production. Because grazing is uncon-
trolled the area is overstocked and production per head is low. Cattle are
almost entirely East African Zebu type and, because of overstocking, their
condition is relatively poor; they are mainly run to produce milk for local
consumption. Sheep are mixed blood, and are not milked but used for meat
production with wool a minor product.
38.       The principal constraints to increased animal production are:  (a)
nutritional, due to overstocking and lack of productive pasture; (b) disease
effects, particularly internal parasites; (c) social factors that result in
livestock being considered non-commercial, low turnoff subsistence enterprises;
and (d) the limited genetic milking ability in cattle. With the allocation of
land to individuals or family units it is probable that the grazing system
will slowly change and that each person will mainLy graze his own land, with



- 13 -
communal grazing restricted to forest and other unallocated land. It is
likely then that pasture development will be used to increase animal pro-
ductivity. The Project area has excellent potential for high quality
temperate pastures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The proposed Project would be the first stage of a long-term (10-20
year) program for development of mixed farming in Narok District. The Project
area for the phase 1 project would be defined as the Mau Division (see map).
Negotiations were held in Washington in October, 1978. The Government delega-
tion was led by Mr. S. Gathiuni, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Local
Government, who was until recently Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The main features of the Project are outlined in the Credit and
Project Summary at the front of this report and a detailed account of the
project background and components is contained in Staff Appraisal Report No.
2091-KE dated October 27, 1978, which is being circulated separately. The
project proposal was prepared by the Planning Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It was in large part based on studies of the development poten-
tial for the Narok District, which began in 1968; CIDA assisted with many
of these studies. The Bank Group provided assistance in preparing a Narok
District Development Plan in 1971-72; the proposed Project is also based in
part on that regional development plan. In addition, the project preparation
team consulted extensively with provincial and district authorities during
project preparation.
Project Description
40.       The Project's main emphasis would be to strengthen basic extension
services and farmer training in the Mau Division of Narok District, to improve
credit services, and to improve rural infrastructure. The Project has two
principal objectives: to promote the development of Narok District, an area
of high potential which has been relatively neglected in the past, and to
increase production of wheat, an important commodity which Kenya is now
obliged to import. It would benefit almost exclusively individuals with
medium-scale farms (more than 20 ha), since wheat production techniques
involved are ill-adapted for small-scale farms.  The Project would make an
important contribution to Kenya's overall economic development through its
increased production. Moreover, it is well adapted to the social and economic
circumstances of Narok District (para 35), where excellent land is still
abundant. The Project fits well with the Government's strategy for agricul-
tural development which involves parallel and separate efforts to assist
small-scale farmers, and medium and large-scale farms. The Project, over a
five-year period, would consist of the following components:



- 14 -
(a) Development of improved extension services for crops
(with focus on wheat and rapeseed) and livestock (sheep,
goats, and cattle), and farmer training;
(b) Incremental staff and office facilities for AFC in
Narok to provide improved credit services for mixed
farming;
(c) Provision of seasonal credit for wheat and rapeseed
inputs and medium-term credit for farm machinery, soil
conservation measures, dams, stores, and land clearing;
(d) Development, upgrading and maintenance of access and
feeder roads in the principal wheat producing areas;
(e) Soil conservation measures and development of tree
nurseries to provide seedlings for reforestation
on farms;
(f) Wildlife control program to limit damage to crops by wild
animals; and
(g) Studies to establish baseline data on the District, monitor-
ing and evaluation of Project progress, and studies and
field trials to prepare projects for the future development
of Narok District.
Project Implementation
41.       The Project would be implemented through the district level ser-
vices responsible for the various activities concerned, under the direction of
the Distxict Agricultural Officer (DAO) designated as the Project Coordinator.
Policy matters relating to the Project would be decided by the DAO in liaison
with the Ministry of Agriculture's Land and Farm Management Division, through
the Provincial Director of Agriculture. Thus, at the national level the Land
and Farm Management Division would have coordinating and policy responsibili-
ties, but day-to-day Project management and executive responsibility would
be delegated to the DAO. The Narok AFC branch manager would have primary
responsibility for the credit program, working in close liaison with the DAO.
Project components outside the Ministry of Agriculture's normal sphere of
responsibility (road development and wildlife control) would be the responsi-
bility of the respective Ministries concerned, and their staff at central
and district level would be coordinated by the DAO. The DAO would be an
experienced farm management officer and would be assisted by an additional
senior extension officer who would be appointed to share his duties within
the district (Deputy Project Coordinator). District Specialist Officers would
be responsible for technical aspects of the Project's agricultural programs.
The Government would (a) assign required staff to Narok District before
December 31, 1981; (b) would submit for IDA approval draft terms of reference
for key project staff; and (c) would consult with IDA on the appointment of
the DAO and Deputy Project Coordinator (Schedule 2, Part A(3) and Annex A of



- 15 -
Lhe draft Development Credit Agreement). The appointment of suitably quali-
fied persons to fill these two positions would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Specific Project implementation programs would be based on a detailed
annual work plan. This plan would be prepared by the DAO and his staff each
year and targets and provisions within each work plan would be projected on a
quarterly basis. The plan would be reviewed in Narok District by Ministry of
Agriculture Headquarters staff, in conjunction with an IDA supervision mission
which would normally be timed to coincide with the review. Local officials,
including the District Development Committee, should thus be fully involved
in on-going evaluation of the Project and planning for future development.
The annual work program would be submitted to IDA for review by March 1 of
each year, commencing in 1979 (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Implementation would begin in January 1979, and Project Year 1
would be considered the period January 1 to June 30, 1979 so that subsequent
Project years would coincide with the Government's fiscal year. Individual
Project components would be implemented as follows: extension services and
training by District agricultural services, credit by AFC, and roads by the
Ministry of Works Roads Department.
Extension Services and Farmer Training
43.       The Farmer Training Center (FTC) program and extension methods would
involve short training courses for farmers at the FTC, field days at test
sites and demonstrations on husbandry and tractor maintenance, and individual
followup at farms by extension workers for individual farm planning and
budgeting assistance (Schedule 2, Part A(1) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The extension services would provide assistance to an estimated
2,000 resident farm owners in the Project area; many would be new farmers with
limited experience of crop husbandry, machinery operation, or budgeting and
financial control. The FTC training program would also include courses on
farm planning and budgeting, and loan application procedures and responsi-
bilities; AFC would organize the training in credit operations. A training
program for women farmers would emphasize small livestock and vegetable
cultivation. Proposals and terms of reference for training programs to be
financed under the IDA Credit would be submitted to IDA for approval (Schedule
2, Part G(2) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Credit Services
44.       AFC credit services in Narok District would be strengthened and
expanded, in order to better serve the needs of resident owner farmers produc-
ing wheat, rapeseed and sheep.  The credit program, which is essentially a
pilot scheme at this stage, would focus on an estimated 360 loanees; only a
few Masai farmers are at present keen to shift to crop cultivation. Of the
360 loanees, many would represent several related families on one land-holding.
Thus up to 1000 individual families would be expected to benefit directly from
these loans. These loanees would obtain credit from AFC for farm development
and operation. Farm developments would include clearing land for cropping,



- 16 -
purchase of farm machinery (tractors, drills, ploughs, and a small number of
combine harvesters), soil conservation measures, construction of farm stores,
and development of small dams for livestock watering. Medium-term credit
would support clearing of an estimated 5,000 ha and purchase of about 124
tractors and 14 combine harvesters. Seasonal credit would be extended for
wheat, rapeseed and sheep and goat production in conjunction with medium-term
development loans. Terms for credit services and interest rates are outlined
in para 51.
Road Development
45.       Road construction, improvement, and maintenance would be carried
out in the higher altitude wheat areas, north and northwest of Narok town.
The road component would continue and strengthen an on-going wheat road scheme
initiated in 1975, which has assisted in upgrading and opening feeder roads in
support of wheat development. The major investments would be: (a) completion
of gravel surfacing of about 25 km of the main wheat collector road, and
rehabilitation of about 23 km of already gravelled sections on the same road;
(b) development of feeder roads to the main collector road; (c) maintenance of
existing and new wheat collector roads and feeder roads, including regrading
road surface, side ditches, mitre drains, and repairs to drainage structures;
and (d) engineering and technical supervision by the Roads Department of the
Ministry of Works (MOW) or by engineering consultants employed by the Ministry.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the
consultants should be satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 2, Part D (3) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Planning, location, and programming of pro-
posed road improvement and maintenance would be carried out in close colla-
boration between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Roads Department. While
engineering standards, technical specifications, and guidelines for improvement
works, including plans and tender documents, would be prepared by the Roads
Department, construction and maintenance would be carried out by contractors.
The studies designed to assist in preparation of future development programs
for Narok would include planning the road network, assessing priority areas
for development, estimating future maintenance requirements, and developing
proposals for strengthening the Narok District Roads Department services.
The Government would make appropriate provision for maintenance of roads
developed under the Project following Project completion, and would consult
with IDA on road development programs (including road maintenance) for Narok
District prepared in conjunction with baseline and Project preparation studies
not later than December 31, 1981 (Schedule 2, Part D(4) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Soil and Water Conservation
46.       The Narok District Soil Conservation Service facilities would
be strengthened by supplementing existing equipment for land clearing and
conservation works. About 15 dams for public use (each with a storage
capacity of about 2,000 cubic meters) would be constructed. District forestry
services would be strengthened by providing tree nurseries to provide plants
for distribution to farmers, who would plant trees on their land to retard



- 17 -
soil erosion. These activities would complement the basic Project extension,
training and credit programs, which would have an important component aimed at
promoting soil and water conservation. Projected on-farm developments would
include construction of cut-off drains, laying of grass strips and construc-
tion of small dams for livestock watering, which would also have a conserva-
tion function. Extension workers would promote proper rotation practices to
reduce soil erosion and would discourage cultivation of steep slopes (Schedule
2, Part E(4) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Wildlife Control
47.       Damage to crops by wildlife (mainly buffalo and elephant) from
neighboring forest areas is a major problem for Mau Division wheat farmers.
Wildlife control programs for the Mau Division would be pursued under the
Project in order to reduce losses from wildlife damage. Additional studies
and field-scale comparison trials would be required to plan for the control
program and to evaluate alternative control methods. The principal investment
items would include vehicles, staff, and operating costs for game control
units and an estimated 30 km of fencing of key crop areas. The Government
would consult with IDA on terms of reference for the studies, and approval by
IDA of a detailed wildlife control program would be a condition of disburse-
ment for equipment and civil works for this component (Schedule 2, Part F and
Schedule 1, para 4 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Services
48.       Baseline studies of the population, ecology and resources of Narok
District would be carried out to assist in Project management and in subse-
quent monitoring and evaluation efforts, and to serve as a basis for planning
for future phases of the Narok District development plans. Project prepara-
tion work would focus on exploration of the potential for development of areas
outside the Mau Division, notably Kilgoris and the Loita Hills area. CIDA
would finance most of these studies, but a small amount of the IDA credit
would be allocated for special studies; terms of reference for all baseline
and monitoring studies would be developed in consultation with IDA (Schedule
2, Part G(1) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Markets and Prices
49.       W4heat, rapeseed and livestock produced under the Project would be
marketed through existing channels, which are satisfactory. As a matter of
general policy, the Government has established an annual price review mechanism
within the Ministry of Agriculture for certain key commodities. By and large,
prices have been set at appropriate levels. There have, however, been some
exceptions, notably with regard to beef prices (para 23). Discussions are
currently underway with the Government on establishment of procedures for
periodic consultations with the Bank Group on prices of key agricultural
commodities, in order to ensure a more effective role and coordinated approach
on the part of the Bank Group to one of the major issues in Kenya's agricul-
tural development. It was agreed that before each annual wheat price review,



- 18 -
the Government would discuss with IDA the criteria (including provision of
adequate incentives to produce wheat, or other economically viable agricul-
tural products) to be taken into account in adjusting prices. The Government
would also ensure that these prices continue to be maintained at appropriate
levels thereafter (Sections 3.07(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
50.       Net Project costs are estimated at US$18.8 million including price
and physical contingencies, of which US$10.5 million or 56% represent foreign
exchange costs. Most goods financed under the Project would be exempt from
import duties; a nominal amount of US$0.1 is included in the total Project
cost to cover taxes and duties. The proposed IDA Credit of US$13.0 million,
on standard IDA terms would finance about 69% of net Project costs, including
87% of foreign exchange costs and 47% of local expenditures. Local cost
financing is justified in this Project in view of the limitations on domestic
resources in Kenya. CIDA has agreed to finance baseline studies costing an
estimated US$1.4 million equivalent, representing the remaining foreign
exchange costs or about 8% of total Project costs, as a grant to the Govern-
ment of Kenya. Farmers would finance an estimated 5% of total Project costs,
as down payments for medium-term loans for purchase of equipment and machinery
and the Government would finance the remaining 18% of Project costs.
51.       Funds for farmer credit (medium and seasonal), including US$7.3
million in IDA funds, would be passed on by the Government to AFC at an annual
interest rate of up to 5%. These funds would not be repayable to the Govern-
ment, but would become a revolving fund to be used by AFC to finance AFC's
future farm development lending program for Narok District. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government. Repayments from loans would
in turn be relent to Narok District farmers subject to demand for loans. The
Government would undertake to replenish the fund to the level established
under the Project if, for any reason outside AFC's control, the fund was
reduced as a result of losses occurring before the Closing Date (Schedule 4,
para 5 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Inflation rates in Kenya (defined as increase in the GDP deflator
which is the suitable index in Kenya) have risen from an annual rate of about
13.4% in 1975 to 15.7% in 1976 and 19.6% in 1977. Rates of interest for
institutional agricultural lending in Kenya which range from about 8% to 11%
are therefore, at present, negative. However, the inflation rate is expected
to moderate over the next three years from about 15% in 1978 to about 10% in
1980. Under the proposed Project, AFC would lend to ultimate borrowers at an
interest rate of not less than 10% per annum for medium-term loans and 11%
for seasonal credit (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement); this
is in line with agreements reached for the Third Agricultural Credit Project.
General interest rate policies are currently being reviewed with the Kenyan
Government, and AFC's interest rate structure as well as its general lending
policies and terms will be specifically reviewed as part of the on-going prep-
aration for a fourth agricultural credit project. The Ministry of Planning



- 19 -
haS T-?pared terms of reference for an agricultural interest rate study, and
arrangements have been made to hire a consultant to assist with this study.
Modifications to interest rates resulting from either the interest rate study
or from any future lending operation to AFC would be applied also to any
subsequent lending operations in Narok District. Funds for AFC credit ser-
vices for Narok would be passed on to AFC as a grant, as they would represent
technical assistance for development of an improved service network for Narok
District which would not be financially viable in the short term. Signature
of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Government and AFC, satisfac-
tory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) and
Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds from the IDA
Credit for extension services, road development, soil and water conservation,
wildlife control programs, and technical services would be passed on to the
agencies responsible for Project implementation as a grant. Retroactive
financing of about US$200,000 is recommended for expenditures incurred after
June 15, 1978, for Project startup activities including housing, office
construction and vehicle procurement (Schedule 1, para 4(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       For the Project's credit component, the items to be financed are
varied and would not be suitable for bulk procurement under international
competitive bidding. However, there is adequate competition, both inter-
national and national, as major producers of farm machinery and fertilizers
are represented in Kenya; sales and after-sales services are adequate, sup-
plies satisfactory, and prices competitive. Thus, farmers would procure goods
and services through normal commercial channels. Procurement of equipment and
materials for extension and credit services, soil and water conservation, and
the wildlife control program would follow Government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory. Contracts for road development and maintenance works
would be placed following local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory; works are too small and locations too scattered to attract
international bids. Most housing and office facilities would be constructed
through the Buildings Department of the Ministry of Works; contractors would
be employed to carry out these works following local competitive bidding
procedures. AFC facilities would be constructed by local contractors in any
event. Again, such works would be too small in scale to interest interna-
tional civil works concerns.
54.       IDA funds would be disbursed on the following basis:  85% of the
amounts disbursed by AFC under medium- and short-term subloans; 85% of total
expenditure for vehicles and equipment ; 80% of total expenditures for civil
works and road development; and 85% of local expenditures and 100% of foreign
expenditures for project related studies, monitoring and evaluation, staff
training and road engineering consultants. Disbursements for subloans would
be made against statements of expenditure certified by AFC; these would be
retained by AFC and made available to IDA for inspection in the course of
normal Project supervision. Disbursements for other components would be fully
documented.



- 20 -
Accounts and Audit
55.       The Ministry of Agriculture and AFC would maintain records and
accounts adequate to explain all Project activities. AFC accounts have been
audited by Messrs. Githonogo and Company since May 1978: the former auditors
were the Nairobi office of Coopers and Lybrand. AFC would continue to retain
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audited accounts together with
the auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The Ministry
of Agriculture's accounts would be audited and reports submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of the fiscal year (Section 3.06(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       The Ministry of Agriculture has established a monitoring and eval-
uation system for projects. The system is operated jointly by the Land and
Farm Management Division and the Development Planning Division, with the dual
objectives of producing data to guide project managers and project planners.
The system measures the performance of farmers in response to specific projects
and the projects' effectiveness in removing constraints. The field operations
of this evaluation system are directed by the IADP Evaluation Coordinator, who
works with a team of enumerators under the control of provincial supervisors.
The evaluation system at present is being developed under the IADP, but will be
adapted as soon as feasible to evaluate the progress of the Third Agricultural
Credit Project. The evaluation of the Narok Project would be part of this
scheme, which would be further amended to include aspects and components
specific to this Project. A completion report would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the closing date of the project (Section 3.04(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
57.       Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would consist
of increased production of wheat, rapeseed, sheep and lambs. The value of
annual incremental production is estimated at about US$4.6 million at full
development (Year 10). These benefits reflect only the direct production
increases of the 360 farmers who would obtain loans under the Project and
may thus be considered a conservative estimate. In addition, out of the 360
loanees approximately 125 would purchase their own machinery. A direct result
of this would be the future availability of local contracting ability, which
would benefit both Project and non-Project farm families. Additional benefits
which have not been quantified would result from the improvement of extension
services and training throughout Mau Division, and from road improvements;
these would increase production of crops (primarily wheat) and livestock, and
would improve the efficiency of crop marketing. Further benefits would be
the protection of Narok's natural resources, notably through soil and water
conservation measures and protection of catchment forests. Additional benefits
would result from the wildlife control program, which would reduce crop losses
from damage by wild animals. In addition to these agricultural benefits, the



- 21 -
Project is designed to assist in the development of basic agricultural ser-
vices in Narok District, and thus to improve planning for district development,
implementation of development schemes, and delivery of services to farmers.
58.       The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of
the Project (representing 83% of net project costs) is estimated at about 13%
over 20 years. All Project investment costs which relate directly to expected
increases in production were included in the analysis. Costs of studies were
excluded from the analysis because these activities are principally intended
to assist in the design of future development programs for Narok District, and
the benefits would therefore accrue largely in future projects; the estimated
cost of monitoring and evaluation, and costs of farm labor were included in
the analysis. If costs were increased by 10%, the rate of return would be
reduced to 9%; if benefits were reduced by 20% the rate of return would be 7%.
If costs were increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 10%, the rate of return
would be 7%.
59.       The Project offers long-term benefits for development of Narok
District, which has been relatively neglected in the past; in particular,
it would foster development by resident Masai farmers rather than by tenant
farmers or entrepreneurs from outside the District who have shown little
interest in maintaining the land and have used it largely it for short term
gains. In many respects its principal benefits would be the strengthening of
local institutions and local planning capacity. Further an estimated 2,000
families in the Project area would be expected to benefit under other compo-
nents of the Project, principally from improved extension services, training
programs and infrastructure (roads). Most of the farmers would be adjudicated
land-owners in the middle income category. A limited number of new jobs would
be created through the Project's construction activities as well as additions
to Government services and agencies.
60.       Project investments would have a positive environmental impact
through a number of Project-sponsored activities. Project investments and
extension programs would actively encourage the reversal of the present soil
erosion problems by strengthening the Narok District Soil Conservation Service
and Forestry Services. The protection of catchment forests in Narok District
raises some environmental issues, since protection policies have not been
clearly defined and there is confusion as to which ministry or agency has
primary responsibility for the forest areas concerned. We do not believe
that forest destruction in fact represents an important ecological threat,
but areas which should be protected should be more clearly delineated and
responsibility for forest protection better defined. It was explained
during negotiations that these issues will be addressed by a new bill, the
Forestry Bill of 1978, now before Parliament. The provision of small dams
under the Project is partly to regulate the flow of present surface streams;
no new water sources are to be tapped. The recommended fertilizer and pes-
ticide inputs are not expected to have any adverse environmental effects.



- 22 -
61.       The Project presents limited financial risks, but it could encounter
significant problems during implementation. The problems most likely to
affect the Project would be implementation delays resulting from management
difficulties, and a slower than expected rate of participation in the credit
program by resident Masai farm owners. If farmers did not seek credit as
expected, AFC might sustain some limited financial losses and new Government
services might be underutilized but the financial and economic effects would
not be very significant. The most important problem is to ensure local
involvement in Project implementation, and thus to secure adequate support
from local officials. It is further essential that incentives to Masai
farmers to participate in Project developments be adequate.  Measures taken to
ensure decentralization of Project administration, including an annual review
in Narok itself, and to ensure the appointment of high quality staff, should
help to offset this risk (paras 41 and 42).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Agricultural Finance Corporation, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Government and
the Agricultural Finance Corporation, and appointment of key Project staff
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed project (Section 5.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Approval by IDA of a detailed
program for wildlife control would be a condition of disbursement for equip-
ment and civil works for wildlife control (Schedule 1, para 4(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 17, 1978



- 24-                                            ANNEX I
TAbLE SA
ENWA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EENYA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL            582.6                                                   SA1E                  NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      99.2                                IST RECENT       GEOGRAPRIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIXATE Lb       REGION Le  GROUP Xd   GROUP Lo
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0        160.0     270.0           223.6       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0      174.0            86.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YER
(MILLIONS)                         8.3        11.2      14.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.3          9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0         19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     84.0       113.0      145.0            53.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0 f      48.4      46.5             44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         49.2 ,fLt    48.0     50.9             52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.8 7.Lg    3.6        2.6             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.1        3.5             2.5        2.4          2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.5        6.1             5.8        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.5         49.0      48.7            46.9       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.8         17.0      16.0            20.6       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4        3.3             3.1        2.9          3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9       48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIEpD WOMEN)    ..        2.2         *-             2.5       14.6         14.2
FOOp AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            101.0       100.0       83.2            94.2       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        98.0       91.0            90.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0       59.6            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0       22.8            17.1       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          1.9        ..              ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5        49.1       50.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          ..      129.0           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        15.0       17.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..       100.0      100.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               *-         2.0        4.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .         50.0      55.0             23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        85.0       98.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                                         45.0       48.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10840L f.Oh  7810.OA  5800.0 /.h    21757.5    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSCN     2290.01/1   1470.01k  1300.0 ih        3473.8     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                            830.OLf     770.0     760.0 Li         645.4     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           1292.6     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             19.2       19.5        19.2
HNOSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7        ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..         4.7        ..              5.0        4.8
RURAL                               ..         4.7                        4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              2.5/f        ..        ..               ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                     ..         ..           ..                 8.7        10.3



- 25 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
KUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REnIENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVEICWIS
mTA                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIIATE)
SANK       Sgm      NMT BIGNf
MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INIODE
1960 lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE         R EGION  c   GROUP            j
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENr RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOT.LL               47.0        64.0    109.0             52.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE              30.0        53.0    101.0             37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0 /1      9.0      13.0             8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE               2.0         5.0      10.0             5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0 /1     2.0       2.0             7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          42.0        34.0      33.0            43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                        15.0        21.0      24.0            22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..        30.0      40.0            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        8.0         9.0      10.0             3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        9.0        48.0      40.0            40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         1.5       3.0             2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                13.0        14.0       8.0             3.9        6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0         ..        ..             1.2        1.4         1.6
3MPLOYMENT
MOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3300.0      5100.0 I  6100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 34.8        33.6 j9   33.3            32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            85.8        90.0 L   84.0 /v          73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.1         7.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.2        40.6      39.2            42.0       39.8        37.8
HALE                               54.5        53.8      52.3            54.8       53.3        50.3
FEKALE                             28.2        27.4      26.1            27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.1       1.1             1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..       20.2 n       ..           25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..       52.6 n      ..            55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         3.9 1n     .              5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        11.7 n      *             14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PFER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    122.0            108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      93.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIHATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    144.0            124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      78.0            59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      80.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
*OTESs
la   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populetion-veighted geomtric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country In each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;       Low Income (S280 or less per capita, 1976);  /a Lover Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  3   1962;  L   Based on complete enumeration of non-African population,
and On a 10 percent sample of rural African population age 0-14, 15-59 & 60 years and over respectively;
/h  Registered, not all practicing in the country;   L  1972;  /1  Including teacher training at the
third level;  Ak Labor force age 15-50 years;  LI Labor force age 15-50;  /u  staff estimate;
/n urban only.
September, 1978



- 26 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                             ANNEX   I
S= ! The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicgtors depends on availability of data and is not uniform, Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land ares and inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used teaporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally cu,stodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health end medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistrnt, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
fNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual coneumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                    dOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals vho share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two and-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persona per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                 ber of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dvellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km.  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and srban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growch rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal ads-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for maost recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - toral, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages cnding in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger tars (per thousand Population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (rcent of requireents) - Computed from                     vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution., Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "doily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMFILOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
hEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in faming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eapectancy at birth (years) - Average mutber of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (Par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population, snd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rurgl) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is noct
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative Poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the coutry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practiring male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whiche-vr is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis snd Projections Department



- 27 -
Annex I
E-CoLon.I Oeo*lopnt Data Sh-rt
A,t..l                    Pre Ii nivr                            Pr.i.ot.d                                   A-craeg  A-nal Rate of Growth   1976
I         1973       1974       1975,       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       188F         1990      1967-70 1972-76 19-   1985-9D   Shtrr
of GDP
A. NMtlo ilI AcIo..t.
(MIllion "SS St 1972 Felon.)
1.  CDP                              2022 6    2155.9    2258.3    2272.7    2390.2    2510.5    2662.5    2824.9    2997.1    4052.7                  5543.7        6.7      4.3      6.1      6.5     100.0
2.  Gat. froo TT                         -        -94.6      -73.6    -105.0        -72.2      1C2.a       17.1       -9.1       -33.9    -112.6       .163.2         .        .        .                .3.0
3   GOY                              2022 6    2061.2    2184 6    2167.7    2318 0    2613.2    2679.9    2816.8    2963 2    3940.2                  5390.8        6.9      3.5      6.1      6.4      97.0
4.  lepoert                            605.2      587.1      665.8      508.4       520.5      668.6      758.0       781.2      826.3    1015.8        1216.3       8.3    .3.7       7.7      5.3      21.8
5.  etporee - Volve1                   560 3      655.6      621 9      565.9       599.5      639.0      679.6      723.5       768.0    1031.8       1401.1        6.0      1.7      6.2      6.3      25.1
6.  Enport. - TT adjoted               560.3      560.9      548.2      460.9       527.2      741.7      596.6       715.4      734.4      919.0       1228.2       6.7    -1.5       6.4      6.1      22.1
7     .e.o.roe Cap - TT  dj..ted        44.9       26.3      117.6       47.5        -6.7      -73.1       61.3.   65.5           91.8       96.9         78.1        .        .        .         .       0.3
8.  Total Co...-pliov                 1620.8    1681.2    1736.5    1832 3    1893.9    1919.4    2123.8    2240.0    2384.5    3121.7                  4234.4       6.7      4.0      5.7      6.3      79.2
9.  lveetnea e                         446.8      406.1      409.8      400 .4      417.3      620.8      617.4       642.3      670.9      915.3       1224.4      10.2    -1.7       9.1      6.0       17.5
10. NctiRoa  Savlng                    379.2      292.9      379.9      267.6       353.9      632.0      501.5      516.6       514.9      721.0      1006.3       12.3    -1.7       8.2      6.9      14.8
11  Dle.t1o S. ing.                   401.8       380.0      448. 1     335.4       424.1      694.1      556.1      576.8       579.0      818.4      1146.3        7.8      1.4      7.6      7.0      17.7
12. CrlP at  _c_ent 0                2022.6    2362.6    2850.7    3155.5    3410.1    4028.2    4699.4    5359.7    6084.2   11539.7    22139.3                    16.8    13.9    14.5    13.9
9. Sectto l90por
(Sh.re of COP at 1972 Price.)
I   Indoetry                            21.3       21.9        21.8       21.9       22.6       23.5       23.8        24.0       24.Z       25.3         27.2       7.8       5.5      7.0      8.0
2,  AnrricltvIo                         32.7       31.4        30.7       30.4       29.6       29.3        29.0       28.9       28.7       28.0         27.2       5.6       1.3      5.6      5.8
3.  Seroiree                            46.0       46.6        47.6       47.7       47.6       47.2        47.2       47.2       47.1       46.6         45.t       7.5      4.7       6.0      6.0
C. Pre...
1.  Export Prio-  loden                100.0      117.5      149.4      171.2       187.7      242.9      226.7      236.8       244.4      322.6        450.1         .     17.1       4.9      6.9
2.  Iport Prion 1od..                  100.0      120.6      173.0      203.1       196.1      209.3      221.1       239.5      255.6      362.1        509.3         *     19.4       7.4      7.1
3    ere-  of Trade                    100.0       97.4       86.4       84.3        95.7      116.1      102.5        98.9       95.6     - 89.1        98.4
4.  GDP Deflator cUSS)                 100.0      109.6      126.2       138.8      142.7      160.5      176.5       189.7      203.0      284.7       399.4          .       9.3      7.1      7.0
5. Average gochange RIte
(VS /118)                           2.80       2.85        2.80       2.70       2.40
D.  Selecced 1rdiext-re             1965-70   1972.76   1976-85    1985-90
1.  ICOR                                 3.0        4.5        3.6         3.5
2.   Iporl Eln.vclt7                     1.0       -0.8        1.1        0.8
3.  Average Orveatro SavIngs ~~Rate   19.0  19.5      20.9       21.1
4   Average N- eron. savings R. e   10 6           16.1       19.20       18.5
S.  M-rginl stio-l s-virng  Rhte  22.0           S1.3       Z2.9        20.3
6.  Onprra/lp                           29.        26 2       24.5       24.5
t-v  tnt GDY                          20.3        19 4       22.7       23.1
8.  Re o-rve Gap/C3Y                     0.7        2.3        2.4         2.0
Ar. Ane-l
E.  %3ploy-ent                         1970       1905       1976    1970-76
1.  L.-or Force Tot-l                         6,400,OO
2 I.ge  rPlornet                    644,500    819,100   057,200    4.97.
F   Publ-c Fr--anc                                                                                                            Frav.
rt;i Pillion)                     1969/70     1970/71    1971/72       1972/73      1973/74    1974/75    1975/76        1976/77
1.  Rerorreet Rovero..                   97.9       124.0        141.6       149.0       190.1        226.1       269.3       311.8
2   Revorreot Encpe-dit-,                09.4       110.4       129.7        139.6       163.7        207.2       245.4       295.0
3.  Rer_rreot lorplo.                    +8.4       +13.5       +12.9         +9.4       +26.3        +18.9       +23.9       +16.8
4   D0eelop-ent Project
Earnln8e 6 Orher
f8ierelieoeoue ORvelptr               0.4         0.4         0.4          0.6         0.6          0.4         -            _
5.  foreign Creora                        1.4         0.8          1.8         0.5          3.5.        6.6         7.6         19.1
6.  Surploe A,ailalle for
Fin..cing IeieDop-ert
E.peodit.r.e                        10.3         14.7        15.1         10.5        30.4        25.4         31.5        35.9
7.  D0-elop-t ErP ndir-.                32.1        46.5         51.9        61.8        66.4         94.2       127.7        148.9
8.  Overall Onfit                      321 8        .            -36.8       -51.3       -36.0        .68.8       -96.2    -_.0
9.  Pinencig of the Defi.it:
ft-ra Il Loan.                    10.8         10.9        11.5        24.7         14.4        22.0        43.1         41.1
D-.tic-
L-ang-t-e  Bereoeing           13.6-         8.1        15.6        21.3         18.9        15.5        52.8         25.0
Sl(art.-e,-    torro- ing        5.1        15.0          1.1         6.8         -2.9        12.7        32.5         20.6
Creeto                           0.05        0.03         0.02        0.02         _           0.04
Ch.ge  in Cae6  Jelneeh
(IKreOea   -)                     -7.8        -2.4         -8.3        +1.5         -5.6       -18.1       +32.2        -26.3
EAN. CPI-A
Pebroary 13, 1978



- 28 -
KENYA                                                                         Annex I
lalance of PaYments and External AsitetnO.
(Million US$)
1972        1973         1974         1975         1976h        2977         1978         1979         1980          1985          1990
A.  Sary  of Balance of Pfywecte
1.  ExPort  (incl. NFS)                       560.0       698.6       1005.5       1038.7       1147.5       1552.4       1540.6       1713.5       1877.2        3328.2        6306.4
2.  Deport. (icl. NFS)                        632.0       752.6       1237.3       1161.3       1149.4       1399.3       1676.0       1870.5       2112.1        3678.7        6704.4
3.  Resource Balance                          -72.0       -54.0       -231.8       -122.6         -1.9        153.1       -135.4       -157.0       -234.8        -350.6        -398.0
4.  Net Factor 5ervice Income                 -34.1      -101.9       -101.1       -113.4       -113.8       -129.6       -124.1       -143.5       -165.5        -325.1         -630.3
4:1 Set Interet Pyments of uhich:             -20.1      --21.9        -24.6        -25.9        -22.5        -37.6        -29.1        -39.0        -50.6        -140.0        -332.1
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans       ( -14.5)    ( -16.3)    ( -18.2)    ( -19.6)    ( -22.5)    ( -33.0)    ( -41.3)    ( -53.2)            ( -67.9)      (-159.3)      (-362.2)
4.2 Direct InvestmenC Income (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittnce (Net)             )    -14.0        -80.0        -76.3        -87.5        -91.3        -92.0        -95.0       -104.5       -115.0        -185.1        -298.2
4.4 Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  current Tranefers (Set)                    38.1        22.2          19.3         18.4        15.3   .    20.0          20.0         20.0         25.0           25.0          25.0
6.  Balance on Currect Account                -68.0      -133.7       -313.6       -2176        -100.4          43.5      -239.5       -280.5       -375.         -650.2        -.01.2
7.  Private Direct Inves-c-et                  34.1         74.7        123.8        42.9         42.9         48.0          53.8        60.3         67.5         119.0          209.7
8.  Capital Grancs                             39.5         39.4        69.9         39.4         40.0         60.0          64.2        68.7          73.5         103.1         144.6
Publ Ic M 6 LT L....
9.  Di:-r.t                                    68.7        67.8         74.6         87.7        185.5        255.7        245.6        270.1        298.5         704.3         1560.2
10. Anorti at on  '                           -10.4       -12.6        -13.8        -13.1        -19.7        -32.5        -42.8        -47.1        -69.9         -231.3        -813.3
11. Bat Dibshroeeentol/                       58.3         55.2         60.8         74.6        165.8        223.2        202.8        223.0        228.6         473.0          746.9
Other M & LT Lon
12. Dibtr Nt                                   10.5        18.6         22.7         24.8         14.5          9.0          5.9          1.6          0.8           0.0           0.0
13. AlrtisXs.oei   - 1 /.7                                 -55          -3.7         -4.0         -7.7         -8.9         -6.4         -6.5         -6.8          -6.7          -7.4
14. N1 tihburee_ents2   !                      4.8         13.1         19.0         20.8          6.8          0.1         -0.5         -4.9         -6.0          -6.7          -7.4
15. Ue of lMF R.eao..rces-                      0.0        -0.6         53.5         51.6         18.9        -35.0        -35.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
16  Short-tern Capital Tracssctiona             5.6         15.1        31.1         31.9         33.2         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0          31.8           36.9
17. Cspitsl Transactions. n.e.i               -49.1       -31.8        -74.2        -27.7        -8.4                         -                  -             -                    -
18. Cnge .In Re..r.e-   (- - increse)         -25.2       -31.4         29.7        -13.9       -118.8       -354.9        -60.8        -81.5         -3.2         -69.5        -127.5
B.  Grants ad Loans Cont,nents
1.  Official Crants4/                         39.5         39.4         69.9         39.4         40.0
2.  Public M & LT Loan.                        99.4       102.7        170.1        373.2        217.6
2.1  IBID                                      29.0         34.0         10.4       193.5         31.0
2.2  IDA                                      28.0          ..          33.5         25.5         14.0
2.3  Other MlItilatsral                         ..           1.1         3.6           7.2        10.8
2.4  Gocer-anta                                22.7        66.0        122.6         76.0         33.6
of which centrally
platne.  ecoco.nie-                     -            0.3          -            -            -
2.5  SBppliecn                                  2.3          -            -          47.5         65.8
2.6  Financial InsEitutiono                    17.3         1.6           _           8.4         56.6
2.7  jonda                                            -            -                   -            -
2.8  Public Lo.u.  n.e.i.                  / _        -            -                 15.0          5.8
3.  other N & LT Lo na (where avilable)-   33.0            23.2           6.9          3.6         7.5
C. Melacrand .    Items
6/
1.  Crnt Element of Total Concitoenta          45.5        45.4         66.0         23.8         21.0
2. Average Interest (Percent)                   4.1          4.2         2.1          6.7           6.6
3.   ynrsge Maturity (Ysara)                  29.2         28.6          36.4        24.6         18.1
1/ Oncluden financing of projected bheance ot payments deficit (1977-1990) by euppliers' credits.
2/ Represon.o disburoncot and r-po-ent of ba.ne for EAC projects of which K.nyaa hshre is a notiol 501.
3/ Net of "Draving" and "Repayoent by Furchane.
4/ Excludes Technical As.iitance grants.
5' For 1972-76 represents a notional 50% of loan noinircests for EAC projects.
6/ For 1972-76 repreo.oto oniy grant eieen-t of loans.
EAN, CPI-A
Februory 7. 1978



- 29 -
KT2NYA                                    Annex I
Debt and Creditworthiness-
Actual
1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       197A
A.  Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt outstanding 5DOD: End of Period)V          441.6      514.5      602.8     656.8      807.9    1029.8
2.  Including Undisburse,-                               674.3      787.9      958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3.  Public Debt Service -                                  36.3       39.9       42.1      43.0       57.7       82.4
3.1 Interest                                               20.2       21.7       24.5       25.9      30.3       41.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                ..        ..          .
2/
B.  Debt Burden-
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                      6.5        5.7        4.2        4.1       5.0        5.3
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                         1.8       1.9        1.9        1.9       2.4        2.0
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                  8.9        8.3        7.2        6.4       8.3
C   Terms-/
1.  Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                          4.6        4.2        4.1        3.9       3.8        4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                            8.2        7.8        7.0        6.5       7.1        8.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for -/ & LT Debt-
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                12.5       11.5        7.9        9.7      17.4       18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                       10.0        9.1        6.4        8.2      15.0       16.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                       79.7       79.0       82.0       84.8      86.3       84.4
1/
E.  Exposure-
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           34.6       38.5       23.8      53.5       38.8      20.0
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0          55.6       35.4      59.5       45.6      27.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                     16.2       19.9       20.6      27.7       31.5      29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD               2/              26.1       32.2       32.9      40.1       43.2      40.5
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                  14.6       19.3       21.6      27.2       38.2      29.4
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service/            15.4       20.6       22.8      28.6       39.6      30.6
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Anount          Percent
3/                              (US$ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed only -
1.  IBRD                                                                169.5            25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                          264.1            39.9
3.  other Multilateral                                                   10.3             1.6
4   Governments                                                         299.8            45.3
of which centrally planned economies                                0.2              -
5.  Suppliers                                                            35.9             5.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                               21.5             3.2
7.  Bonds                                                                18.4             2.8
8.  Public debt, n.e.i.                                                  11.8             1.8
9   Total Public M & iY Debt                                            661.7           100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt-                               .                  146.2            22.1
11. Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                              1237.1           187.0
12. Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                              1401.0          211.7
1/ Includes a notional 50% share of loans to the EAC.
2/ Includes a notional 50% share of debt service on loans to the EAC.
T/ Excludes EAC.                                                                      EACPIA
February 7, 1978



- 30 -                                 ANNEX 11
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of October 31, 1978
US$ Million
,oaR 1Vr,   Year  Borrower                                           Tyunt (Less Cvycellations)
_re__       Yea _r  BorrDwer   Purpose                            Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed           96.0           74.1
224        1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                   12.6         1.8
826        1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                     29.0                        0.6
932        1973  Kenya       Highways                            29.0                        6.4
946        1973  IDB         DFC I                                5.0                        0.6
468        1974  Kenya       Population                                         12.0         1.9
477        1974  Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5        17.9
993        1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                       10.4                        5.1
1093        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                    7.5                        7.5
537        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                   7.5         4.7
1105        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                     8.0                        8.0
543        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                    8.0         1.8
565        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                             10.0         3.9
1132        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry              10.0                        6.2 2/
1133        1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline           20.0                        0.3
1147        1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development           59.5                       14.3
1148        1975  IDB         DFC II                              10.0                        2.9
1167        1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                           21.9
1184        1975  Kenya       Education III                       10.0                        9.0
650        1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                       10.0         8.9
1303-T      1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                 10.0              10.0
1304-T      1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                         17.0              16.5
651        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                  4.0        4.0
1305        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                   4.0                        4.0
1389        1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                  25.0                       23.0
692        1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                            20.0        15.6
1390-T      1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                       5.0               5.0
1438        1977  IDB         DFC III                             20.0                       20.0
722        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                          6.0         5.5
1449        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement          34.0                       34.0
750        1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.0        10.0
1520 3/    1978  NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply         30.0                       30.0
791        1978  Keuya       Second Urban                                       25.0       25.0
1550        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                        25.0                       25.0
797       1978  Kenya        Education IV                                       23.0       23.0
Total                             467.4    32.0 243.7        374.3
of which has been repaid          17.4       -    0.9
Total now outstanding             450.0    32.0 242.6
Amount sold                  11.8
of which has been repaid  8.6   3.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA l/             446.8    32.0 242.6
TOTAL undisbursed                         -  218.8    31.5 124.0        374.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes US$3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
Note: This table does not include the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project for which a
loan of US$9.0 million was approved on October 31, 1978 since this loan has not yet
been signed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of October 31, 1978
Amount (less cf ncellations)
Loan No. Year  Borrower  Purpose                    Bank 1/    Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           1.2
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           3.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5            5.6
1204-BA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             8.3
Total                                          244.8          i9.3
of which has been repaid                      46.2
Total now outstanding                          198.6
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      198.6
Total undisbursed                               19.3          19.3
1/  Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 26 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onwards the appraisal projections are
likely to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule
and, due to cost escalations, funds will only enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund is considering
financing 3 factories under the project, and other sources of funds to finance
construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project are being explored.
However CDC has advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by December 1979
a total of 15 factories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative.
The standard of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be
high, and although the Marketing Department problems are not yet resolved they
are under control. Disbursements are behind schedule due to the delayed
factory building program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date. The project had been adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
but a new and satisfactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development cot..onents, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. However, prob-
lems continue in that (a) the poor financial situation of many Phase I and
Phase II company ranches continues (although currently under review and
replanning); (b) an effective extension service in the Masai group ranch
areas, which is essential if the project's objectives are to be achieved, is
still not developed adequately; (c) currently high prices have to be paid for
immature steers (which are necessary to enable generation of cash flow) due
to a temporary situation of high demand coupled with an unwillingness by
pastoralists to sell due to good pasture conditions. The project will con-
tinue to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Credit and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cooperation between the various Government ministries and agencies
concerned with the project has improved. However, farm recruitment overall
continues to lag because of legal and social problems; only 16 mixed farms
and 9 coffee farms have been recruited so far compared with appraisal targets
for the third year of implementation of 65 mixed farns and 18 coffee farms.
Costs of rehabilitating coffee farms have increased substantially. A study
prepared by consultants on the large farm sector is presently being reviewed
by the Government, and may lead to policy changes which could necessitate an
in-depth review of the objectives of the project.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: USS10.0 million Credit and USS10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 18% below target, due to unfavorable weather con-
ditions in 1975 and 1976, shortage of equipment and, in some cases, of labor
(both now remedied).  The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedule. However, all the backlogs should be made good
during the last 3 years of the project. Progress has been very slow in
implementing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly
-regarding the program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling
sector, the national land use study, and the gazetting of nature reserves
-and new forest reserves. Although action has now been taken to increase
stumpage rates for sawlogs, this action was taken without prior consultation
with the Bank Group. Problems have also arisen with regard to procurement
of vehicles and staffing. Accordingly, the project is being kept under very
close review.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December.31, 1981
During the first year of implementation, the focus of the project
changed towards assisting large numbers of subsistence farmers rather than
progressive smallholder farmers. This change has led to a number of diffi-
culties, but the project objective of improving the productivity and incomes
of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of credit recovery and
loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing. Active efforts are
now being made to expand and implement the infrastructure components, in-
cluding improvement of input supplies and marketing systems.  Some adjustr.-ent
to the administrative framework is required, and discussions on this subject
are ongoing. The Annual Work Plan for FY79 is now under review.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The progress of the Agricultural Finance Corporation's (AFC) lending
program has accelerated, and both the small scale and medium scale lending
lines are expected to catch up with appraisal forecasts. IDA disbursements
for medium scale loans have now started since AFC has recruited a Credit Spe-
cialist, a precondition for commencement of disbursements under this project
component. Loan recovery from Phase I and II projects is satisfactory and
steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of disbursed loans.
The impact of AFC's loans is seen in the diversification of progressive farms
into dairy, pigs, sugar and other new and expanding enterprises.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantlv because of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays. some comDonents
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost ovcrruns.



35 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan
proceeds may f.irther delay project implementation. The sessional paper
on the report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities which was tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to
be discussed in a full Cabinet meeting in the near future. No major changes
in the document are expected. The delays in approving sketch designs are
expected to be overcome and the dialogue with the Government regarding the
hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective on August 25, 1978. The Project Unit
Staff are benefitting from experience gained in implementing the Third Educa-
tion Project. Consultant architects have been appointed for the Faculty of
Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary Schools. Implementation of
technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya Institute
of Administration has started.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late.  Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages. Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time is unlikely to be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to
about 80% of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun
of about 10% (expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government re-
sources. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
recruiting staff. Steps are underwav to audit the accounts of the Coast
Province Water Branch for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the
Government have been satisfactory.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan is not yet effective. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and the preparation of tender documents. The first tenders
for supply of equipment were received in June 1978, and tenders for the
first civil works contracts to be financed from the loan are expected to
be invited in November 1978.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now sub-
stantially completed, with final completion expected by December 1978. The
delay was primarily caused by a slow start in construction of the regional
workshops and camps due to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of
sites and procurement of steel. The revised cost estimate of US$16.0 million
is about US$2.1 million below the appraisal estimate because of savings on
staffing costs and equipment and spare parts. There will be a US$1.8 million
savings from the credit funds. This remaining balance will be used for pur-
chase of additional workshop equipment and tools in order to achieve the
project's objectives. A further postponement of the Closing Date to
December 30, 1979 is likely to be required to allow sufficient time for
completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is. performing up to expectations.
The remaining principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient
staff for operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by non-
competitive salary scales and a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled personnel. The
Closing Date is likely to be postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements against expenditures incurred in connection with
the training program. The project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started two years behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. In view
of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were delayed.
Agreement has now been reached to delete the Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km) road from
the project. The Closing Date, which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to
December 31, 1979, is likely to be postponed further to allow time for comple-
ti40. of pr^ 4^t works.  All -ork i.z now iPi progress except for construction
of the Kisii-Mogonga road. Bidding documents for this road are being prepared
by consultants and should be completed by December 1978.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and the Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) have agreed to install central
railroad loading facilities at KPC 's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the
US$1.54 million cost is being arranged. KPC has updated the project cost and
financial forecast. The final project cost overrun is only US$9.5 million
or 11%. The increase is primarily due to escalation in construction costs.
KPC's long-term financial prospects are quite satisfactory although there
could be cash flow problems in the initial few years of operation-because of
the preponderance of short and medium-term loans in the financing package.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds
have yet been disbursed. The project is slightly more than a year behind
schedule, though costs are not expected to increase. Economic evaluations
for the eight districts in which Bank-financed units would be set up have
been reviewed and approved by the Bank; five construction units are now
operating, and start up of the remaining three unitc is expected by December
1978. Through June 1978, 141 km of access roads had been constructed. Labor
intensive construction methods are being successfully applied and output and
costs are in line with appraisal targets.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date:  July 31, 1974; Clos,ing Date:  June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. All construction work has
been contracted and 95% of the facilities completed. Supply of vehicles
and furniture and equipment has been contracted and delivery has commenced.
The Nursing Activities study has been completed and the Study of Fertility
Determinants is underway. The program components financed by other donors
and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed on
schedule, although program management needs to be strengthened and the quality
of services improved. A postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979 has
been approved to permit completion of construction and procurement.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project:  US$ 59.5 million Loan -
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in June
1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31., 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effective
on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule.
This delay is due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$4.4 million of this
loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been postponed by one year to
March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$7.1 million had been
disbursed as at October 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effecti't  )ate:  November 10, 1977
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$5.7 million had been committed.
1/ Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan was
cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan was declared effective on June 26, 1978. Measures to
increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have been finalized. Several
key project staff have been recruited, and efforts are underway to fill the
remaining positions. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of sub-projects are now
being reviewed.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000 plots and most
beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastructure for an
additional 2,700 plots is under construction with tendering underway for
construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots. Off-site
infrastructure is nearly completed. Community facilities provision is behind
schedule. One primary school is nearing completion. The remaining five
schools are to be tendered within the next six months. One health center is
under construction, however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against its
costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank. The
design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in
conjunction with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal esti-
mates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining components
of the project.
Credit No. 791-KE/Loan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Credit and USS25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
This Credit and this Loan became effective on October 3, 1978.
Nairobi's Housing Development Department is organized and staffed; Mombasa
and Kisumu are recruiting staff for their Housing Development Departments.
At least one site in each municipality has been acquired, and work can begin
immediately. No major land acquisition problems are foreseen for any of the
other sites although minor problems exist in acquiring one site in Mombasa.
Consultants for detailed design and engineering for some of the sites have
been appointed, with the appointment of others in process. Substantial
progress has been made on all 13 technical assistance components of the
project.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Preparation for project implementation has been considerably slower
than expected, due largely to delays in recruitment of personnel for the
Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Project
implementation should now accelerate as officers have recently been appointed
for the PM`U. CIDA has expressed an interest in funding WPU posts, and sec-
onded the acting head of the unit for about six months. Preparations for
the Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding
satisfactorily. A supplementary letter giving more detailed proposals for
anti-poaching operations to be financed by the Loan has been negotiated
and signed, and disbursements on this component can now begin. The Govern-
ment has largely complied with the terms of the supplementary letter but some
details remain to be finalized.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 15, 1969;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R//-31z), we are continuing disburseLUeils.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the
minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the
improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
im Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements
have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and moderniza-
tion of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the
exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General
cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam,
and cargo handling productivity has improved with increasing throughput;
however, port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general
cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania
are now functioning completely independently of each other. Legislation to
establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port
Authority is expected to be established soon. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 milli.on Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:



-42 -
ANNEX II
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave system construction have
now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds dis-
bursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been committed for
cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex and tele-
graph equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1977 among the countries
concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - Mtarch 31, 1979
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year       Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974
and 1977       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    13.1         6.3    19.4
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4        -     2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3      2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                   29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     8.6      1.8    10.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC         20.4      8.0    28.4
Total Undisbursed                          2.2       -      2.2



- 44 -
ANNEX III
KENYA - NAROK AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                        23 months
(b)  Preparation by:                               Government
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank Group:           December 1975
(d)  First Bank Group Mission:                     December 1976
(e)  Appraisal Mission departure:                  January 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                                 October 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                April 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(1) Assignment of required staff for project extension services
to Narok District, and approval of terms of reference for key
project staff (para 41).
(2) Appointment of District Agricultural Officer and Deputy Project
Coordinator (para 41 - condition of effectiveness).
(3) Submission of annual work plan to IDA for review by March 1 of
each year (para 42).
(4) Submission of proposals and terms of reference for training
programs for extension services and farmers to IDA for
approval (para 43).
(5) Assurances that Government would consult with IDA on road
development programs for Narok District and make appropriate
provision for maintenance of roads developed under the
project (para 45).
(6) Assurances that Government would consult with IDA on terms
of reference for wildlife control studies (para 47).
(7) Submission of detailed wildlife control program to IDA for
approval (para 47 - condition of disbursement).
(8) Submission of terms of reference for all baseline and
monitoring studies to IDA for approval (para 48).



- 45 -
ANNEX III
(9) Assurances that wheat prices would be set at levels which
would provide adequate production incentives (para 49).
(10) Execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, acceptable to
IDA, between the Government and AFC (para 52 - condition of
effectiveness).






IBRD 13480
KENYVA                                                                                                      ,0g                                                            MAY 1978
Norok Agricultural Development Project
LAND TENURE                                                                                               .r >,< .z
Norok District: Adjudication Areas                                                                                   .tt  t                                                 NAKURU    DISTRICT
(1,810,965 heoores-Approx.4,474,834r -.acres              T
Registered areas (480,234 ha)         _        Rivers                                 r                                   ,        /       g  <{                * vi-iit
Published areas (19Z,291 ho)                   Area boundaries                                                       <'7 r MlA F
TRANS MARA FOREST 
Area under progress 1183,370 ha)   -.-   District boundaries                                   8 919
Game reserve (170,880 ha)           --.. bProvincial boundary                             N 
Unidentified areas i731,699 ha)        -         -  Internationol boundary                                                  71                                                        l
NOTE. ALL AREA FIGURES ON MAP ARE HECTARES.                                                                                ,'               2 2-
NUMBER OF PARCELa ARE SHOWN N RED-35
Is   RICT                KERICHO                   DISTRICr~~~~7   /                                                       QCHOO 
A O                                                                                                                    0< ? If Oi-
'Ia   1% Yt                .'N-..y/yOLLULUSA                                                                      '
'r/                                                    32,375~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
H.                         qjN         A t_h   A,F-r '    4eos <~ ,  osi4  \\)                                                                                                      t  /  O  D0N Y     , A,<  
RI    ' I            '4RU                                                 I. N  .                                           7                2  K_
~ AN'~5'HARrUK     G        "NKaboeon                                                                                                  7AIRF
\~    ~~.,3  <  /                         2,329         45   ,-<        *2, .        0 X  f1 0-r'       g                              /t    a         t           tISHO'            X         ./
CS      OMISMI M A 1  RA /p; R-                                                                                7    
OLALOI  #7 /            ~          'vj          jM/
JWA5EH GSans         5,      s          en as 99                   ctg<d$0tR4                                                             ~         148  '           4''~~4     ~
\  . 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                               t   tlS,t ttO7El  XX          >s    '  -        D   I        S     ,   TRI/
SUA . -1CM.. E                   PA  _   LogridenI (l                                                                                     2  >  ,,,,   i7%   OLNULJ
DiSRC Wrn                                       +/                                                                                                                      (j    nIsHORO /LI               /  J
'N.Ze                        /etFlNKAS                                                            .                                               SeA
F  7852      r                                                                                                          '7777<Loit  >t   7)     2
.    OC              1945                           KOAK .     02                             0/ri0 i'                                                                             h rfott  hhi srtt
N9  MASA MARA  TA E REEV                                                                                                  A NION  I A" S-  '     I                / 10
TANZANIA                               N..                                                                                                                                        5  ANGATA
2U~~~~~~4)7j7,8     ,  s
S.                                                                               '        '                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA            
TANZAN IA                                                      --'N 
Lake VeronTHa                                                                                                                                                              .  IA  eeork 
4N                                                                           NA       2,3ARA~,  
-*  e                                                                                              'K~~~~~~~~~~~~Lde150 
UGANDA?                                                                                                                             23~~~~~~~~~~~~0  020N ,  121t0oototn,ataeo
KAONA        ' ECANN Nzzn Yt aAot:
TA Z   NIA             N.osKEoRAo
10  20  3p  4p  so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aoOtOYo a, no,eno
Nairobi  0                                                                                          If OSASIRVAI                          lhl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    o aPm/acto-,,-honsndt
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,f &N'  r--0 .



