                                              CONFORMED COPY




                                       CREDIT NUMBER 858 KE




Development Credit Agreement
    (Narok Agricultural Development Project)



                     between


                REPUBLIC OF KENYA


                       and


      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated December 20, 1978
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 858 KE


                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B) the Project will be carried out in part by the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation (hereinafter called AFC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as Tart of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to AFC the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the f oregoi  , to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and cona.    as hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of evE-i date herewith between the Association and
AFC;

    NOW   THEREFORE   the   parties hereto hereby    agree   as   follows:

                                ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).

     Section 1.02.     Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise      requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions    have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following     additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation estab-
lished by the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, Cap. 323, Laws
of Kenya;
                               - 2 -


      (b) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment;

     (c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AFC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all   schedules
to the Project Agreement and all  agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

     (d) "Project Area" means the area of about 6,000 square
kilometers comprising the Mau Division of Narok District; and

      (e) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and AFC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time.


                            ARTICLE II

                            The Credit


     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.

     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
                               - 3 -

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding f :m time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall   be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1989, and ending November 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project
                        and Other Covenants


     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, D, E,
F and G of the Project through the agencies indicated in Schedule
2 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate agricultural, conservation and engineer-
ing practices and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and shall provide, promptly as needed,     the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,      the
Borrower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing Agree-
ment all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable AFC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn for Parts B and C of the Project available to AFC under
a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and AFC under terms qnd conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association including, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, the terms and conditions set out in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

      (d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. By March 1 of each year of Project implementa-
tion, commencing March 1, 1979, the Borrower shall submit a
detailed Project work program covering the fiscal year commencing
on the next July 1 to the Association for its review and comment.
Each work program so submitted shall be prepared under the super-
vision of the Narok District Agricultural Officer, shall be
approved by the Borrower, and shall include targets for Project
lending and extension programs, works to be carried out, staffing
plans and budgets.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
for Parts A, D, E, F and G of the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.

     (b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procureT-nt
schedules for Parts A, D, E, F and G of the Project, and iany
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
                                 -5-


      (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, D, E, F
and G of the Project (including its        cost and the benefits to be
derived from it),     to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii)   shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to  visit   the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project   and  to   examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit    and   any  relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A, D, E, F and G of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
 priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


     (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare, jointly with AFC,
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial   operation of the Project, its     cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.


     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, upon its
request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.


     Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A, D, E, F and G
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts A, D, E, F and G of the Project
or any part thereof.
                                     - 6 -


      (b)   The   Borrower   shall   cause   its   Ministry   of Agriculture
 to: (i)    have its   accounts and financial   statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                                                                auditing
 principles consistently applied,    by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii)     furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months
                                                               after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                                                      its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
                                                                  of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                                                        detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
                                                              furnish to
the Association such other information concerning
                                                         the accounts
and financial      statements of its   Ministry of Agriculture        and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                                                                 to time
reasonably request.

      Section 3.07.   (a) To the extent that the Borrower or any of
its  agencies exercises     any control over the price(s)   paid to
farmers for wheat and other agricultural products, the Borrower
shall ensure that such price(s) continue to be maintained
                                                                 at
appropriate levels, taking into account providing farmers adequate
incentives to produce wheat, or other economically viable agricul-
tural products, in accordance with sound agricultural practices.

      (b) The Borrower shall   continue to review wheat prices
annually. Before each review, the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall exchange views with each other as to how the factors
described in the foregoing paragraph (a) would influence existing
wheat prices, and each shall provide the other such information in
its possession as may be relevant to the application of such
factors.

     Section 3.08.   The Borrower shall maintain the facilities
constructed or improved under the Project in accordance with sound
engineering and maintenance practices.

                               ARTICLE IV

                      Remedies of the Association

     Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:

     (a) AFC shall have faile,' to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
                               -7-


      (b)  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that AFC will be able to perform its     obliga-
tions  under the Project Agreement;

     (c) the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, Cap. 323, Laws
of Kenya, or any other enactment relating to AFC shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of AFC to carry out
the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and

     (d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.

     Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
                                                              of
     (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and

     (b)  the event specified in paragraph   (c)   or   (d)   of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                              ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
                                                         General
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
Conditions:

                                                     executed on
     (a) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been
behalf of the Borrower and AFC; and

     (b) persons having adequate qualifications and experience
                                                           and
have been appointed as Narok District Agricultural Officer
Deputy Project Coordinator.

     Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions,   to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
                               -8-


     (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AFC, and is legally binding upon AFC in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been
                                                             duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AFC and is
                                                         legally
binding upon the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its
                                                          terms.

     Section 5.03. The date March 20, 1979 is hereby
                                                          speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
                                                          Article
III of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02
                                                          of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
                                                               the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
                                                          fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
                                                           be the
earlier.


                            ARTICLE VI


             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative
                                                              of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified   for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


    For the Borrower:

         The Treasury
         P.O. Box 30007
         Nairobi, Kenya

         Cable address:                       Telex:

              FINANCE                             22003
              Nairobi
                                   -9-


    For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Jtreet, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                            Telex:

          INDEVAS                                        440098 (ITT)
          Washington,    D.C.                            248423 (RCA) or
                                                          64145 (WUI)


      IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the      parties hereto, acting through
their  representatives thereunto     duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their       respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of        America,  as of the day and year
first above written.


                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA



                    By /s/      J. P. Mbogua
                                               Authorized Representative




                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                        By Is! W. A. Wapenhans
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                          Eastern Africa
                                  -   10   -




                                 SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

 1.    The table     below sets forth the Categories of items to be
 financed out of    the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
 amounts of the     Credit to each Category and the percentage
                                                                   of
 expenditures for    items so to be financed in each Category:



                                   Amount of the
                                  Credit Allocated           % of
                                   (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category                   Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

A.    Expenditures of the
      Borrower for:

      (1)   Vehicles and               2,000,000       85%
            equipment

      (2)   Civil works                2,300,000      80%
            including road
            improvement and
            maintenance

     (3)    Project monitor-               200,000    100% of for-
            ing and evalua-                           eign expendi-
            tion, staff train-                        tures and
            ing and road en-                          85% of local
            gineering consul-                         expenditures
            tants

     (4)    Unallocated               1,000,000

B.   Expenditures by
     AFC for:

     (5)    Loans to farmers          7,300,000       85% of amounts
            under Part C                              disbursed
            of the Project

     (6)    Vehicles and                   50,000     85%
            equipment
                                -   11   -




                                  Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated            % of
                                  (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed


      (7)   Civil works                      100,000   80%

      (8)   Unallocated                       50,000


                      TOTAL         13,000,000


 2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and
                                                        for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other
                                                             than
the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
                                                           in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services
                                                    supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.     The disbursement percentages have been calculated
                                                            in com-
 pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
                                                              nf the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
                                                       taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
                                                       services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
                                                        thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
                                                         in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
                                                        the Credit
decreases or increases,    the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower,  increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent
                                                           with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

 4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
                                                                  no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (a)    prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1),
                                                          (2),  (6)
and (7)  on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after June 15, 1978; and (b) in respect of
                                                           Catego-
ries (1) and (2) for Part F of the Project until the Association
                              - 12 -


has notified the Borrower of its approval of the program described
in Part F (1) of the Project.

 5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if     the Association has reasonably estimated
 that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii)    if  such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.

 6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
 procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
 the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,     no
 expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
 ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
 the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
 to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                 - 13 -


                               SCHEDULE 2

                               The Project


     The Project consists of the following Parts which shall be
carried out in accordance with the provisions set out below.

Part A:   Extension Services

          (1)    Improvement and equipping of extension services for
                 crops (primarily wheat and rapeseed) and livestock
                for about 2,000 farmers in the Project Area through
                 (a) giving short courses for farmers at the Farmer
                Training Center at Narok in machinery maintenance,
                crop and animal husbandry including special courses
                for women in small livestock and vegetable husban-
                dry, farm planning and budgeting and loan applica-
                tion procedures and responsibilities,    (b)  giving
                demonstrations for farmers in husbandry and tractor
                maintenance at MOA's test sites and (c) visiting
                farms to advise farmers on farm planning and
                budgets on a regular schedule at appropriate
                stages in the crop cycle.

          (2)   In addition to the staff required to meet the fore-
                going requirements,   supplementary extension staff
                will be employed to advise farmers on improved
                pasture management, animal disease control and
                breeding. About 10 cattle dips and 4 artificial
                insemination runs will be established in addition
                to existing facilities.

          (3)    For this Part of the Project, the posts indicated
                in Annex A to this Schedule shall be filled       by
                December 31,    1981 with qualified persons and
                maintained and, in the cases indicated, their terms
                of reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
                and the Association. The Borrower shall inform the
                Association of any proposed appointment to the post
                of District Agricultural Officer/Project Coordina-
                tor or Deputy Project Coordinator in sufficient
                time to afford the Association the opportunity to
                convey its  views on the qualifications and experi-
                ence of the proposed appointee(s).
                                    -   14   -



Part B:    AFC Services

          Expansion of AFC's services to farmers in the Project
          Area so as to provide greater assistance in preparing
          loan applications and implementing farm or investment
          plans by employing additional qualified and experi-
          enced loan officers and supporting staff and providing
          adequate offices, housing, vehicles and equipment.

Part C:   Medium-term and Seasonal Credit

          Making   available   to       about    360   farmers   in   the   Project
          Area:

          (1)   medium-term (3 to 5 years) credit for clearing
                about 5,000 hectares for cropping, purchase of
                farm machinery (including about 124 tractors and
                about 14 combine harvesters), carrying out soil
                conservation measures (construction of drains and
                planting of grass strips) and construction of farm
                stores and small dams for watering livestock (see
                Part E (4) of the Project); and

          (2)   seasonal credit for wheat, rapeseed and sheep
                production which shall, except as the Association
                may otherwise agree, be extended only in conjunc-
                tion with the foregoing medium-term loans.

Part D:   Road Development

          (1)   Gravel surfacing of about 25 kilometers, and reha-
                bilitation of about 23 kilometers of the seg-
                ment already gravelled, of the road shown on the
                Bank's map numbered IBRD 13479 as a "wheat collec-
                tor road" to an all-weather standard,    including
                improvement in horizontal alignment and gradients
                and minor drainage structures.

          (2)   Construction or improvement as required of the
                roads shown on such map as "feeder roads", includ-
                ing regrading of about 55 kilometers of spurs and
                loops on such roads.

          (3)   The engineering and supervision of construction and
                other works in connection with 'these roads will be
                                 - 15 -


                  done by the Borrower's Ministry of Works or by
                  engineering consultants whose qualifications,
                  experience and terms and conditions of employment
                  are satisfactory to the Association,     and the
                  works will be done pursuant to contracts with
                  qualified contractors.

           (4)   The Borrower shall ensure that, during the imple-
                 mentation of the Project and thereafter, these
                 roads are maintained on a regular basis in accor-
                 dance with sound engineering practices and shall
                 make adequate budgetary provision for this purpose.
                 In this connection, the Borrower shall prepare a
                 road development and maintenance program for Narok
                 District and shall submit such program to the
                 Association for its  comments by December 31, 1981.

Part E:    Soil and Water Conservation

           (1)   Provision of about 6 new crawler tractors to the
                 Narok District Soil Conservation Service for land
                 clearing and soil conservation works.

           (2)   Construction of about 15 dams to create reservoirs
                 for public use having the capacity of about 2,000
                 cubic meters each.

          (3)    Establishment of about 3 tree nurseries in the
                 Project Area to provide seedlings to farmers and
                 carrying out a program through the Borrower's
                 Forestry Department to promote planting of trees by
                 farmers.

          (4)    Promoting construction of cut-off drains and small
                 dams and planting of grass strips by farmers in the
                 Project Area,   and in  this connection, requiring
                 farmers who receive loans under Part C of the
                 Project to take appropriate steps to conserve soils
                 on their farms.

Part F:   Wildlife Control

          (1)    Carrying out an appropriate program satisfactory to
                 the Association to prevent damage to crops, and to
                 compensate farmers for crop damage, by wildlife in
                 the Project Area.
                                     - 16 -


            (2)   For the purpose of defining this program and
                  assessing its ecological effects, the Borrower
                  shall carry out a study, designed in consultation
                  with the Association of alternative methods of
                  wildlife control (including field trials) and shall
                  submit the results thereof, together with its  pro-
                  posals for the program discribed in paragraph (1)
                  above, to the Association by June 30, 1980, or
                  such later date as the Association may accept.

Part G:    Monitoring, Evaluation and Studies

            (1)   Carrying out baseline studies, pursuant to terms of
                  reference defined in consultation with the Associa-
                  tion, on population, ecology and resources in the
                  Narok District to assist in monitoring and eval-
                  uating the Project and planning for the Narok
                  District.

           (2)    Carrying out studies and training approved by the
                  Association in connection with the Project and the
                  planning of future development in Narok District.




     The   Project   is   expected   to be    completed by   June   30,   1983.
                                - 17 -


                        Annex A to Schedule 2

              Staffing for Project Extension Services

                        Extension Staff Numbers
                            (Mau Division)

                                   Posts   Posts to
                                  Filled   be Filled   Total    Job Group

DAO/Project Coordinator*             1         -           1         L
Deputy Project Coordinator*          1         -           1         K

District Specialist Officers:

District  - Crops Officer            -         1           1         K
District - Land & Farm
   Management Officer                -         1           1         K
District - Mechanization Officer     -         1           1         K
District  - Animal Production
  Officer                            -         1           1         K
District - Training & Extension
  Officer                            -         1           1         K
District - Veterinary Officer        1         1            2        K

Technical Officers:

Livestock Officer Grade 1            1         -           1         J
Livestock Officers                   4         -           4         H
Technical Officer (Farm
  Management)                        4         1            5        J

Technical Assistants:

Animal Health Assistants            17         5           22
Technical Assistants - General       8        15           23
Junior Technical Assistants         18         -           18




*    Terms of reference for staff for these        posts    will   be sub-
     mitted to the Association for approval.
                              -   18 -


                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.   Contracts for road development and maintenance shall be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding pursuant to
procedures satisfactory to the Association.

2.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials for extension
and credit services (Parts A and B of the Project), soil and
water conservation (Part E of the Project) and the wildlife
control program (Part F of the Project) shall be awarded pursuant
to the Borrower's procurement procedures.

3.   Housing and office facilities may be constructed by the
Borrower by force account or by contracts awarded after local
competitive bidding pursuant to procedures satisfactory to the
Association.

4.   Goods and services procured by farmers out of the proceeds
of loans from AFC under Part C of the Project may be procured
pursuant to such procedures as AFC may permit or approve.
                                 -   19 -


                               SCHEDULE 4

                        Terms to be Included in
                    Subsidiary Financing Agreement
                           (Section 3.01 (c))


     Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement shall include the following terms and condi-
tions:

1.   Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn by the Borrower for Part B
of the Project shall be made available to AFC, promptly upon their
withdrawal, as a grant.

2.   Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for Part C of the Project
shall be provided to AFC, promptly upon their withdrawal, and AFC
shall pay interest thereon at a rate not exceeding 5% per annum
commencing, in respect of each portion thereof, the date they are
received by AFC. The amount so provided to AFC shall not be
required to be repaid.

3.   The proceeds of the Credit made available to AFC as provided
above shall be made available in the currency of the Borrower,
converted at the rate prevailing at the time funds are made
available to AFC.

4.  The Borrower shall, out of funds other than the proceeds of
the Credit, provide to AFC, on each date funds are provided to AFC
pursuant to paragraph 2 above, an amount equal to 15% of the
amount provided pursuant to paragraph 2. Amounts so provided
pursuant to this paragraph shall be provided on the same terms as
amounts provided pursuant to paragraph 2.

5.    (a) If AFC sustains a loss, prior to the Closing Date, on any
loan it makes pursuant to the Project Agreement owing to the
farmer's inability to pay and (i)      directions from the Borrower or
                                                                        not
(ii) other causes which are beyond the control of AFC and were
reasonably foreseeable   at  the  time  the loan   was  made,  then:  (A) a
portion of the    amount  provided   pursuant    to  paragraphs   2  and  4
above equal  to the  amount  of  the loss   will  be  deemed  to have  been
repaid to the Borrower and interest shall no longer be payable
thereon and (B) the Borrower shall promptly provide to AFC an
additional amount equal to the amount of the loss on the terms and
conditions contained in paragraph 2 above and in this paragraph 5.
                              -   20 -


      (b)  A loss shall be deemed to have occurred on a loan or
portion thereof for purposes of this paragraph 5 if (i) AFC writes
off the loan or a portion thereof on its  books in accordance with
sound accounting principles or (ii)   AFC agrees for the reasons
stated in paragraph 5 (a) above to delay repayment of the princi-
pal amount of a loan or a portion thereof by more than one year
from the date it was originally due, provided that any delayed
repayments received by AFC, in respect of which the Borrower has
provided AFC additional amounts pursuant to the foregoing para-
graph (a),   shall be paid to the Borrower promptly on receipt.

 6.   AFC shall establish a separate revolving fund account on its
books to which shall be credited all     amounts provided to AFC
 pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs and all payments to AFC of
 principal of loans made by AFC pursuant to the Project Agreement
and such portion of interest and other charges on such loans as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and AFC, provided that the
resulting spread to AFC shall not be less than 6%. AFC shall
relend funds standing to the credit of such account for the
purposes provided for in Part C of the Project, as provided in the
Project Agreement, to farmers in the Project Area and elsewhere in
Narok District, subject to demand from such farmers for these
loans. AFC's obligations pursuant to this paragraph shall expire
five years after the last withdrawal is made from the Credit
Account provided for in the Credit Agreement.
