CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 858 KE
Project Agreement
(Narok Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Dated December 20, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 858 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called AFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit. Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to $13,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
AFC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary finance agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AFC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to AFC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AFC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AFC shall carry out Parts B and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices.


﻿-2-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AFC shall
carry out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the
policies and procedures set out in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. AFC shall, to the maximum extent practicable,
take action to ensure that the borrowers of loans financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit utilize the proceeds of such loans with
due regard to economy and efficiency.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
AFC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) AFC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts B and C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) AFC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and C of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Parts B and C of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities included in Parts B and C of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn for Parts B and C of the Project and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B and C
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) AFC shall take such action as is within its power to
assist and enable the Borrower to complete the Project completion
report described in Section 3.04 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(d) AFC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all buildings, property and equipment of AFC and any
relevant records and documents.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. AFC shall duly perform all its obligations
under t.:e Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, AFC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) AFC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financ-
ing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) AFC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Parts B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, or the performance by AFC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AFC
Section 3.01. AFC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice and shall manage
its affairs and maintain its assets in accordance with sound
financial, agricultural and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. (a) AFC shall at all times charge interest
rates on all its loans sufficient to enable it, out of its gross
income:
(i) to cover all its operating expenditures and charges
including taxes, if any, and interest payments;
(ii) to make adequate provision for bad or doubtful
loans; and
(iii) to accumulate adequate general reserves.
(b) AFC shall charge on all its agricultural lending (except
land transfer program loans) an interest rate of at least 11% per


﻿annum on seasonal credit and 10% per annum on longer term credit,
or such other rate or rates as the Borrower and the Association
may approve.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AFC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of AFC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 5 -
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify AFC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For AFC:
Agricultural Finance Corporation
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
AGFINCORP
Nairobi


﻿- 6 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of AFC may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as AFC shall
designate in writing, and AFC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By Is! J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Operating Policies and Procedures
Part C of the Project
1.   Loans shall not be made to a farmer for machinery purchase
unless the farmer contributes at least 20% of the investment costs
of the program or items to be financed.
2.   Seasonal credit shall be required to be repaid within the
shortest practicable period not exceeding eighteen months, and
other loans shall be required to be repaid within six years,
including up to one year's grace.
3.   Loans made under Part C of the Project shall be limited to
farmers who are not receiving loans out of the proceeds of the
loan and credit made by the Bank and the Association, respec-
tively, for the Integrated Agricultural Development Project
pursuant to agreements with the Borrower dated July 9, 1976.
4.   Medium-term loans made under Part C of the Project shall be
limited to farm owners who: (i) have title to at least 10, but not
more than 400, hectares of arable land; (ii) manage and operate
their farms in accordance with sound agricultural practices; and
(iii) cannot obtain alternative finance elsewhere on reasonable
terms.
5.   To be eligible for a loan for a tractor, a farmer must
demonstrate that the tractor would be used for a minimum of 1,000
hours of productive agricultural work annually. To be eligible for
a loan for a combine, a farmer must demonstrate that the combine
would be used for a minimum of 800 hours of productive agricul-
tural work annually. Such criteria would apply to the farmer's own
land, or to the land of other farmers (through contract work) or a
combination of both.
6.   Every farmer to whom an agricultural loan for livestock
development is made would be required to follow a program of
animal husbandry and disease control satisfactory to the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Agriculture.


﻿- 8 -
7.   The Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and/or AFC will be
responsible for preparation and technical appraisal of farm plans
and guidance and supervision of farmers during the period of the
agricultural loan, but AFC will make the final decision as to
whether or not a loan should be granted.
8.   Investments will be appraised in terms of incremental returns
resulting from the additional investments.
9.   AFC shall take such action as sound commercial and credit
practices require with respect to defaulters on its loans.


