Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3330 
Operation Name 
Uganda Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%);General industry and 
trade sector (25%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(25%);General public administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P101231 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of Uganda 
Uganda 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
OPM Building 
Kampala 
Uganda 
Tel: +256-772-501-462 
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 21, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 14, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 24, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Uganda’s prudent macroeconomic policies continue to generate high economic growth and reduction in 
poverty. During the 10 years to 2005/06, GDP growth averaged 5.5 percent per annum, in spite of the 
volatility in agricultural output caused by droughts, unfavorable global market conditions, episodes of 
power shortages, and generally poor infrastructure. In 2006/07, GDP growth is estimated to have 
recovered to 6.2 percent, even while the power crisis worsened. 
 
The 2005/6 National Household Survey showed poverty rate to have declined to 31 percent, down from 
38 percent in 2002/3 and 56 percent in 1992/3. Growth in household income, owing to improved 
distribution and better crop prices, contributed to the decline in poverty and inequality, especially 
between 2002/3 and 2005/6. However, the rural/urban and inter-regional disparities in poverty rates still 
exist, with the urban areas and Central and Western regions doing markedly better. Northern Uganda, 
which has endured prolonged insecurity for two decades, manifests an unacceptably high poverty rate of 
61 percent. 
 
Uganda’s current savings are not sufficient to meet the medium-term investment priorities, including 
filling a large gap in physical infrastructure needed to promote private sector development. Identified 
areas for investment are so numerous and large-scale that they need to be prioritized and spaced over 
time. The demographic factors due to high dependency and fertility rates are exerting pressure on the 
budget which devotes significant share of resources to service delivery that benefit the poor. In this 
setting, using limited resources strategically and without preventable waste is of central importance. 
Better and more transparent public sector performance is essential in putting Uganda on a sustainable 
path of rapid growth. 
Page  2
The Governm
ent’s program is contained in the third Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) approved 
in November 2004.  It restates Uganda’s ambitions of becoming a middle income country within twenty 
years, sets out targets for key “strategic results” in income poverty and inequality, improved human 
development, and increased GDP growth. As the current PEAP covers the period 2005-2008, the 
Government has recently started the consultative process of revising the PEAP, including an evaluation 
of the implementation and achievements of the PEAP.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed PRSC7 supports the economic and institutional environment for the sustained 
implementation of PEAP reforms so as to reach the poverty reduction, human development, and growth 
targets laid out in that strategy.  The proposed PRSC7 supports four of the five pillars of the third PEAP, 
and can be grouped into four broad objectives:  market-oriented reforms to enhance productivity and 
competitiveness (investment climate and rural development); effective delivery of social services 
(health, education, water sector programs, and decentralization); improved public sector management 
(budget execution, public financial management, procurement, and anti-corruption); and achieving 
gender balance, reduction in infant and maternal mortality, and dealing with population growth. 
 
3.  Rational for Bank Involvement 
 
Uganda has made considerable progress in poverty reduction, and has maintained a stable macro, as well 
as made progress on improving human development outcomes. The proposed PRSC7 operation would 
continue to provide budget support along with technical assistance in areas where the Bank has a 
comparative advantage. The Bank’s PRSC operations have been serving as a focal point for harmonized 
and coordinated policy dialogue between the Government and the broader donor community, and will 
continue to provide critical technical support in the implementation of the PEAP.  
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
5.  Benefits and Risks  
 
The proposed PRSC7 supports the economic and institutional environment for the sustained 
implementation of PEAP reforms so as to reach the poverty reduction, human development, and growth 
targets laid out in that strategy.  It underpins Government’s objectives by providing external resources 
necessary for the execution of the Government budget, and by providing knowledge and technical 
advice on the implementation of Uganda’s poverty reduction reforms. 
 
Risks that reflect the broader Uganda context are: (i) 
Policy Environment
.
There are concerns about 
possible policy reversal (commitment to the environment) and state interventions in productive sectors 
(land and tax giveaways). The Bank is engaged in proactive policy dialogue at all levels to prevent 
policy reversals and continues to support strengthening of institutions and procedures. (ii) 
Management 
of Oil Revenues
.
Uganda has recently found economically viable quantities of high grade oil in the west, 
leading to acceleration in exploration efforts and discussion on revenue sharing arrangements. 
Management of possible large scale oil revenues is a sensitive issue for regional peace and for sharing of 
the benefits internally. The government needs to ensure transparency and prevent waste and corruption 
Page  3
in the use of the oil revenues. The Bank is offering technical advice through the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative to promote prudent oil revenue management. (iii) 
Poor governance
.
Although 
Government has made some progress in highlighting corruption involving donor funds in the health 
sector, the investigation and prosecution of those accused have been slow and under-resourced. 
Corruption threatens public confidence, results in wastage of scarce resources, and reduces the impact of 
Government programs. The PRSC dialogue has been broadened to tackle corruption through a multi-
pronged approach of enhancing accountability (PFM and procurement), programming for better value 
for money (sector reviews), and facilitating enforcement (case backlog management, special anti-
corruption court). (iv) 
Weak public sector capacity
.
Uganda needs to address the pervasive public sector 
weaknesses arising from inadequate incentive mechanisms. The civil service regulations are rigid, with 
decisions on hiring and firing left outside respective ministries, agencies, and local governments. A 
comprehensive pay reform is currently not possible due to limited resources and already high share of 
employee costs in the budget. The Bank is working with a Government task force to model scenarios for 
a
public sector reform (civil service retrenchment and pay policy), and highlighting the need for 
sustainable and affordable management of human resources in the public sector. (v) 
Exogenous shocks
,
arising from adverse weather patterns or global economic slowdown, can adversely affect the Ugandan 
economy. Impatience with current energy crisis is giving rise to those who think that fiscal and 
monetary policies have been too conservative. The Bank has been advising the Government to maintain 
sound macroeconomic policies and to continue pursuing structural and institutional reforms. The PRSC 
continues to support efforts to enhance production, competitiveness and incomes of the rural poor who 
are the most vulnerable to these shocks.  
 
Risks specific to the PRSC are: (i) 
Diversion of resources to special events
.
The growth of public 
administration budget has been a recurring problem and has been compounded by costs incurred in 
amending the constitution through referendum in 2005, holding national elections in 2006, and 
preparing for the CHOGM in 2007. The Bank is monitoring the budget closely and raising concerns 
about excessive spending in non-productive areas. (ii) 
Financial Accountability
.
Budget discipline needs 
to be maintained and competing budget priorities balanced through the existing consultative process. 
Frequent reliance on supplementary allocations and virement needs to be curtailed. Public procurement 
often relied on provisions for waiver of competitive bidding, and compliance on established procedures 
generally fell. The PRSC7 prior actions are focusing more on strengthening budget reporting, auditing, 
and compliance with the procurement law. (iii) 
Over-committing on priority interventions
.
The 
demographic factors point to potential unsustainability of current programs, and thus, new programs will 
need to be considered carefully with population pressure duly taken into account. The Bank is 
undertaking sectoral PERs to improve efficiency and highlighting the issue of sustainable service 
delivery in the sector discussions. 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Young Chul Kim 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5393+2247 or +256-414-302-247 
Fax: +256-414-230-092 
Email: 
Ykim2@worldbank.org
7.  For more information, contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  4
Telephone:  (202)458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Email: 
pic@worldbank.org
Web:  
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
