Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4431-UG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 13, 2008
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4431-UG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 13, 2008, entered into between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred and 
twenty five million Special Drawing Rights (125,000,000). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister responsible for Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning  
and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 8147 
Kampla 
Republic of Uganda 
Cable: 
  Telex 
  Facsimile: 
FINSEC  61170 
  230163 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Kampala, the Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Ezra 
Suruma 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ 
Kundhavi 
Kadiresan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. Public 
Expenditure 
Review
:
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 11.1 of the 
Letter of Development Policy: (a) submitted to the Association a Medium-Term Expenditure 
Framework for FY 2007/08-2009/10; and (b) executed the FY2006/07 budget consistent with the 
budget allocation as appropriated and adjusted with the approval of the Legislative Assembly. 
2. Investment 
Climate
:
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 11.2(i) of the Letter 
of Development Policy: (a) prioritized and fulfilled the key investment climate and 
competitiveness undertakings identified in the PEAP, including the approval by its cabinet, and 
submission to the Legislative Assembly of, 
inter alia
,
the following draft bills, the Companies 
Bill and the Insolvency Bill; and obtained the Cabinet
’s approval of the Policy Paper on 
Regulations of Pension Reform system; and (b) submitted evidence satisfactory to the 
Association, as to implementation of the undertakings referred to in paragraph A.2(a) of this 
Schedule. 
3. Rural 
Development
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.2(ii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has submitted to the Association evidence of satisfactory progress in 
implementing its core undertakings made during the Joint PMA Annual Review, including the 
undertakings relating to the resource utilization and allocation, finalization of the MAAIF SPFP 
for FY08/09, the framework for revision of MAAIF DSIP, and the agricultural market 
information system. 
4. 
Public Financial Management
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(i) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has made satisfactory progress in implementing its 
undertakings pursuant to the Public Financial Management Performance Report (2006), and has: 
(a) caused its Ministry of Finance to publish annual and semi-annual budget execution reports 
concerning budget allocations, quarterly ceiling, budget releases, and actual quarterly 
expenditures; (b) conducted a comprehensive payroll audit; (c) caused the statutory bodies 
receiving funds from the Consolidated Fund to fully comply in submission of their respective 
accounts for audit within the statutory timeframe; and (d) issued the Treasury Memoranda for 
completed Public Accounts Committee Reports. 
5. Public 
Procurement
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(ii) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has ensured satisfactory implementation and monitoring of 
procurement regulations and systems at the central government, and local government levels, and 
has: (a) established the procurement and disposal units within the Recipient’s ministries and 
Page  7
-
6
-
statutory bodies, and in at least seventy percent of its local governments, as shall be evidenced by 
submission to the Association of a status report; and (b) produced an interim report on the review 
of at least 200 public procurement contracts. 
6. Anti-corruption
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(iii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has made satisfactory progress in implementation of its undertakings 
concerning the National Anti-Corruption Action Plan (2004-07), pursuant to its commitment to 
the joint government and development partners review process of the National Anti-corruption 
Action Plan (2004-07). 
7. Public 
Service 
Reform
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 11.3(iv) of the 
Letter of Development Policy, made satisfactory progress in implementing the new phase of the 
Public Service Reform Program as shall be evidenced in the accomplishment of its undertakings 
to the joint government and development partners review process, including the following 
specific measures: (a) taken necessary action against its personnel responsible for maintaining 
ghost workers in the public service payroll; (b) taken appropriate action to right-size and control 
growth in the public service; and (c) made necessary effort to achieve medium-term salary 
targets, which were established in the August 2006 public service pay policy. 
8. Decentralization
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.3(v) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has made progress satisfactory to the Association, in fulfilling its core 
undertakings made to the JARD 2006 and subsequent confirmation during the JARD 2007. 
9. Education
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(i) of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the implementation of the 
undertakings made in the education sector review during November 2006, and subsequent 
confirmation during October 2007 review. 
10. Health
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(ii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the implementation of: the 
undertakings made during the November 2006 review and subsequent confirmation during 
October 2007 review. 
11. Water 
and 
Sanitation
:
In accordance with paragraph 11.4(iii) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to the 
implementation of the undertakings made during the September 2006 review, and subsequent 
confirmation during 2007 review. 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
The actions to be taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
1. Macroeconomic 
Environment
:
In accordance with paragraph 13(i) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has, to the satisfaction of the Association, maintained a stable 
macroeconomic environment, as shall be evidenced by a joint review with the Association.  
Page  8
-
7
-
2. FY 
2008/09 
Budget
:
In accordance with paragraph 13(ii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has approved the FY2008/09 budget consistent with the PEAP and its 
medium-term growth objectives. 
3. 
Amendment to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and Regulations
:
In accordance 
with paragraph 13(iii) of the Letter of Development Policy, the Recipient has submitted to the 
Cabinet the draft proposed amendments to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and 
Regulations, as shall be evidenced by submission to the Association of published draft 
amendments. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche 
unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01 (a) 
and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
2. 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is appropriate; and  
3. 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have been taken.  
If after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give notice to the 
Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Recipient has not taken 
steps satisfactory to the Association with respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing 
Balance. 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
First Tranche 
 
62,500,000 
Second Tranche 
 
62,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
125,000,000 
Page  9
-
8
-
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an 
account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equ
ivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in 
a
manner acceptable to the Association. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded 
Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used 
to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. Closing 
Date 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2009. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing May 15, 2018 to and including November 
15, 2027 
1
Commencing May 15, 2028 to and including November 
15, 2047 
2
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Auditor General’s Report” means the report of the Auditor General issued during each 
FY pursuant to the Public Finance and Accountability Act, 2003. 
2. 
“Companies Bill” means a draft bill titled “The Companies Bill, 2008” – “A Bill for an 
Act, Entitled, The Companies Act, 2008”, intended to amend, replace and reform the law 
relating to the incorporation, regulation and administration of companies and other 
associations and to make provision for related matters. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and w
atch cases) and 
Page  12
-
11 - 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
6. 
“Insolvency Bill” means a draft bill titled “Insolvency Bill, 2008”, “A Bill for an Act, 
Entitled, The Insolvency Act, 2008”, and intended to amend and consolidate the law 
relating to receiverships, administration, liquidation, arrangements and bankruptcy; and 
to provide for other related matters. 
7. 
“JARD” means the Joint Annual Review of Decentralization among the Recipient, the 
Association and other development partners. 
8. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated March 2, 2008, from the Recipient 
to the Association, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
9. 
“MAAIF DSIP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and 
Fisheries, Development Strategy and Investment Plan, 2008. 
10. 
“MAAIF SPFP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and 
Fisheries, Sector Budget Framework Paper, 2008. 
11. 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” means the Recipient’s Medium-Term 
Expenditure Framework for FY 2007/08 – 2009/10. 
12. 
“National Anti-corruption Action Plan” means the Recipient’s National Strategy to fight 
Corruption and Rebuild Ethics and Integrity in Public Office (2004 – 2007). 
13. 
“Parliament” means the parliament of the Recipient established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Constitution. 
14. 
“PEAP” means the Recipient’s third Poverty Eradication Action Plan dated November 
2004. 
15. 
“PMA Annual Review” means the Recipient’s Plan for Modernization of Agriculture 
Annual Review. 
16. 
“Policy Paper on Regulation of Pensions” means a proposal for the pension sector 
regulation submitted to the Recipient’s Cabinet in February 2008. 
17. 
“Public Accounts Committee Reports” means the reports of the committees of the 
Recipient’s Parliament charged with the responsibility for reviewing the audited financial 
reports of the accounts of the Recipient’s public institutions, including ministries, 
departments, agencies, state enterprises and local governments.  
18. 
“Public Financial Management Performance Report (2006)” means the Recipient’s report 
concerning public expenditure and financial accountability. 
19. 
“Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act and Regulations” means the 
Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act No. 1 of 2003, of the Laws of the 
Recipient, and Regulations No.17 of 2003, made under that Act. 
20. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
21. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement 
Page  14
-
13 - 
22. 
“Treasury Memorandum” means the memorandum issued during each FY by the 
Recipient’s Ministry responsible for finance in response to the Parliament’s report on the 
Auditor General’s Report, and “Treasury Memoranda” means all such memorandum.  
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
