Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 23847-PAK
INTERNAT][ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 395.2 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
May 15, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Econoniic Management
South Asia Region



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
US$1 = PKR 60.30 (May 2002 Floating Inter Bank Rate)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AsDB     Asian Development Bank                     MDG      Millennium Development Goals
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                MTBF     Medium-Term Budget Framework
CBR      Central Board of Revenue                   NAB      National Accountability Bureau
CCB      Citizen Community Boards                   NCBs     Nationalized Commercial Banks
CFAA     Country Financial and Accountability       NEF      National Education Foundation
Assessment                               NEPRA    National Electric Power Regulatory
CGA      Comptroller General of Accounts                       Authority
CPP      Community Participation Project            NGOs     Non-Government Organizations
DISCOs    Power Distribution Companies              NRB      National Reconstruction Bureau
DFID     United Kingdom Department for              NSS      National Saving Schemes
International Development                NWFP     North West Frontier Province
ECC      Economic Commission of the Cabinet         OGRA     Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
ESR      Education Sector Reform                    PAC      Public Account Committee
FCDs     Foreign Currency Deposits                  PAD      Pakistan Audit Department
FPSC     Federal Public Service Commission          PIFRA    Improvement of Financial Reporting and
GAVI     Global Alliance for Vaccines and                      Auditing Project
Inmmunization                            PPAF     Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
GENCOs Power Generation Companies                   PPL      Pakistan Petroleum Limited
GST      General Sales Tax                          PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries             PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IDA      International Development Association      PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IFC      International Finance Corporation          SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
IFIs     International Financial Institutions       SAP      Social Action Program
IMF      International Monetary Fund                SBP      State Bank of Pakistan
IPPs     Independent Power Producers                SMEDA    Small and Medium Enterprise
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper              Development Authority
KESC     Karachi Electric Supply Corporation        SROs     Statutory Regulatory Orders
LGO      Local Govermnent Ordinance                 UINDP    United Nation Development Programme
LHW      Lady Health Worker                         UNICEF   United Nation Children's Fund
LPG      Liquefied Petroleum Gas                    WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
Country Director: John W. Wall, SACPK
Sector Director: Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
Task Team Leader: John Panzer, SASPR



THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. ECONOMIC PERFORMAKNCE AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION:
THE CONTEXT ................................................................1
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ................................................................I
B. POVERTY IN PAKISTAN ...................2............................................. 2
C. THE SOCIAL GAP OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ................................................................2
The State of Education ................................................................3
The State of Health .........................................................,.3
II.  GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ..........................................      3
A. LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR POVERTY REDUCTION ..........................3....................3
B. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .........................................................6
Im. PAKISTAN'S STRATEGY FOR POVERTY REDUCTION .......................................................7
A. THE BUILDING BLOC'KS OF THE I-PRSP ........................................................7
B. I-PRSP EXPECTED OtUTCOMES ................................    ,     ,.       ,    ..7
C. PILLAR 1: ENGENDERING GROWTH ................................8
Macroeconomic Framevrork .................................9
Improving the Business Climate through Market Liberalization and Regulatory Reforms ...........9
Overall Business Environment ....................                                        10
Agriculture Sector Reform .....................11
Banking Sector Reformn ....................                                              12
Natural Gas Sector Reform ..........................................                      12
Petroleum Sector Refornn ..........................................                       13
Power Sector Reform ..........................................                           14
D. PILLAR 2: IMPROVING GOVERNANCE ..........................................                 15
Tax Policy and Administration Reforms ........................................... 16
Public Financial Management ..........................................                    17
Civil Service Reform ..........................................                          21
Devolution ..........................................                                    22
E. PILLAR 3: IMPROVING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT .......................................... 23
Improving the Coverage and Quality of Basic Education ..........................................  23
Improving the Quality and Coverage of Health ..........................................   25
F. PILLAR 4: IMPROVING INCOME GENERATING OPPORTUNITIES AND SOCIAL
PROTECTION .......................................................                    26
G. ACHIEVING SOCIAL OBJECTIVES: RESOURCES, MONITORING,
AND EVALUATION .......................................................                27
IV. BANK'S ASSISTANCE STrRATEGY ............................................................      29
A. THE COUNTRY ASSIS,TANCE STRATEGY ............................................................  29
B. PARTNERSHIPS AND DONOR COORDINATION ...........................................................   29



V. THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                        .    .       30
A. PERFORMANCE UNDER SAC I ....................................................................  30
B. PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ................. 30
Engendering Growth ...................................... . . .. . . .   .   . 30
Improving Governance .....................................                    31
Improving Human Development and Social Protection .....................................   32
C. INDICATIVE PRIOR ACTIONS FOR FOLLOW-UP ADJUSTMENT OPERATION .32
Engendering Growth .                                                          32
Improving Governance ...............................................          33
Inproving Human Development and Social Protection ...............................................  33
D. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND PROPOSED CREDIT AMOUNT
UNDER SAC II ...................................................          34
E. IMPLEMENTATION AD MONITORING ..................................................  34
F. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE ............................................... 35
G. BENEFirS AND RISKS ...................................................         36
Benefits ..........                                                        .36
Riskls ....36



TABLES
Table 1: Incidence of Poverty (1998-99) ................................................................2
Table 2: Primary Gross Enrollment Rates ................................................................3
Table 3: Access to Health Facilities and Health Indicators (1998-99) .........................................................3
Table 4: Expected Outcomes Under the I-PRSP ................................................................8
Table 5: Pakistan Privatization Program ............................................................... I 0
Table 6: Financial Management ]3enchmarks ...............................................................  19
FIGURES
Figure 1: Trends in Growth and P'overty ................................................................1
Figure 2: The External Debt Burdlen ................................................................1
Figure 3: Adjustment Under the iPRSP Program ................................................................9
Figure 4: Changing Composition of Expenditure in I-PRSP ................................................................ 9
Figure 5: Electricity Tariffs ...............................................................         35
Figure 6: Natural GasTariffs ...............................................................          35
BOXES
Box 1: Agricultural Income Tax in Pakistan ...............................................................  17
Box 2: Public Private Partnershilp - A Punjab Pilot Program ...............................................................  24
Box 3: The Lady Health Worker Program: Documented Success - Impressive Potential ......................... 25
ANNEXES
Annex A:    Letter of Development Policy
Annex B:    Matrix of Policy Measures
Annex C:    Macroeconomic Framework
Annex D:    Poverty and Progress Towards MDG Goals
Annex E:    Health and Population Sector- Opportunities and Challenges
Annex F:    Education Sector - Strategy, Progress, and Challenges
Annex G:    Power Sector Reforml Program
MAP
Task Team
Christine Allison, Lead Humnan Development Specialist; Rashid Aziz, Sr. Energy Specialist; Anis
Dani, Lead Social Specialist; Akhtar Hamid, Lead Counsel, Operations; Abid Hasan, Operations
Advisor; Waqar Haider, Sr. Private Sector Specialist; Inaam Haq, Sr. Health Specialist; Bala
Bhaskar Naidu KalUmili, Research Analyst; Tahseen S. Khan, Sr Education Specialist; Hanid
Mukhtar, Sr. Economist; Afarc L Heitner, Lead Financial Analyst; Zareen Fatima Naqvi, Sr.
Economist; John Panzer, Lead Economist, Task Leader; Vinod Sahgal, Lead Financial
Management Specialist, llaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen, Lead Financial Analyst; P.K
Subramanian, Sr. Financia! Management Specialist; Tara Vishwanath; Sr. Economist; Shams ur
Rehman, Jillian Tullett, Lin' W. Chin, Thelma Rutledge, Program Assistants.
Peer Reviewers: David Dollar; David E. Yuravlivker






THIE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECONI) STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:           The Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:             SDR 395.2 million (US$500 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard [DA terms; 35-year maturity with 10-year grace period
Description:        The proposed Credit supports the implementation of the government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy, which focuses on:
*  Engendering Growth. Pakistan's main challenge is to revive economic
growth to at least 5 percent per year to accelerate poverty reduction. The
government has made economic revival the central objective of reforms. In
particular, it has focused on the following objectives and associated policies:
(a) acddressing the debt problem through fiscal consolidation and building the
base for more rapid and stable export growth in the future; (b) increasing
revenue mobilization and changing the composition of expenditures to create
the liscal space for social sectors and critical infrastructure; and (c)
strengthening the business environment by improving the credibility and
stability of government policies by providing a level playing field to all areas
of business, removing distortions, reducing the cost of doing business, and
implementing power sector reforms to improve efficiency and promote
macroeconomic stability.
* Improving Governance. Sagging growth and rising poverty are a result of
the fillure of governance. Establishing the integrity and accountability of
state institutions are the hallmark of the reform program with a particular
focus, on: (a) tax administration reforms; (b) devolution of powers to newly
established local governments; (c) improved public financial management;
and (d) civil service reforms.
* Improving Human Development. Resolving the crisis of human development
is essential for future sustainable growth and poverty reduction. The priority
is to improve the delivery system of basic education, preventive health care,
and iamily planning while gradually increasing expenditures as the fiscal
space is created through stronger growth, improved tax administration, and
conti nued donor support.
* Improving Social Protection and Employment Opportunities. To reduce the
vulnerability of the poor by enhancing opportunities through access to credit,
redistribution of public lands, implementation of community-based
infrastructure programs, and direct cash transfers for the most needful.



Benefits:                  The proposed Credit supports the implementation of major govemance
and structural reforms, while helping maintain macroeconomic stability.
Without this support, Pakistan faces the prospect of slower economic
growth, financial constraint, and further delays in poverty reduction.
Risks:                     There are several risks to the implementation of the program:
*  The country's indebtedness and macroeconomic vulnerabilities are such
that even if reforms are successfully implemented, a viable medium-term
macroeconomic framework will require a favorable market response and
avoidance of further political and economic shocks. Management of this
risk will require building a strong track record in implementation of
reforms to facilitate stronger domestic adjustment, market responses, and
extemal support.
*  There is a risk that the reforms being implemented may not be sustained
by a newly elected govemment and the country will therefore not realize
the full benefits of reform. This is especially relevant for govemance
and institutional reforms, which will take years of persistent efforts and
commitment to bear fruits. To manage this risk, the govemment has
established institutional and political mechanisms to help the continuity
of policies. As a part of this process the President is expected to remain
in office for a further term of five years, and to see the reform program
through completion. Ultimately, however, it is the benefits of reforms
reaching the people that will ensure sustainability.
*  Implementation risks stems from the technical and institutional capacity
constraints, especially in the reforms that involve the provincial and
district levels, as well as in the preparation and implementation of the
full PRSP. To mitigate this risk, programs of technical assistance are
supporting all the key areas of reform.
Estimated Disbursements:   SDR 395.2 million disbursed upon Credit effectiveness.
Project ID Number:         P074968



IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
I. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION: THE CONTEXT
A. Economic Performance
1.    In the 1990s Pakistan -suffered a number of political, economic, and financial shocks. Bad
governance contributed to large non-performing loan portfolios of public sector banks, poor delivery of
social services, and to major inefficiencies and financial loses of public enterprises. Despite efforts at tax
reform, the tax-to-GDP ratio remained stuck at about 13 percent (with the Central Board of Revenue tax
effort falling) and the fiscal deficit remained above 6 percent causing a continuous increase in the already
large public debt. Growth started to slow down. Failures in governance and financing also adversely
affected the strategy to narrow the social gap by improving basic education, health, and reduce gender
imbalances through the Social Action Program (SAP), which did not yield the expected results.
2.     Policymakers were not indifferent to the country's slippage. They responded by initiating a
number of important liberalizing reforms designed to modernize the economy, build human capital, and
boost growth. Yet, frequent ch,mges in government weakened the formulation and implementation of
critical reforms, especially in the area of governance. The fiscal problem was not solved. Prudent
monetary policy prevented the fiscal deficit from fueling high inflation, but one consequence of this was
the maintenance of a relatively strong real exchange rate, which contributed to the external debt buildup.
The liberalization of interest rates also raised the cost of servicing the public debt and thus contributed to
the emergence of unsustainable debt dynamics. The realization that a debt problem was building up,
combined with unease about institutional weaknesses, eroded governmental credibility and hence
constrained investment and a revival of growth.
3.     At the end of the 1990s, Pakistan faced a tough future. Low growth and large macroeconomic
imbalances led to an unsustainable debt burden with debt indicators worst than that of many HIPC
countries.  Interest payments consumed more than half of tax revenues, leaving little space for
development expenditures to reduce the social gap. The capacity to service the country's external debt
was contingent on significant liquidity relief from its creditors and balance of payment support from
multilateral institutions. A weakening of economic growth along with weak progress on human
development caused poverty to stagnate at around 33 percent throughout the 1990s.
Figure 1                                      Figure 2
Trends In Groiwa and Poverty                   The Extenial Debt Burden
10                                  so       14000
45        120D0 -
8  Grwh40                                                    FriV
6                         ~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~30  80
j4         1                        201     ig60 
15        4 000.
2    PovatYj                       10
0 0
…_~ _-                                            - "      _    _   _   . 



B. Poverty in Pakistan
4.     The evolution of poverty in Pakistan has been strongly correlated with the pace of economic
growth.' Rapid growth during the 1980s led to substantial poverty reduction with the national headcount
poverty rate falling from 46 percent in 1984-85 to 34 percent in 1990-91. On the other hand, the slower
and more volatile economic growth of the 1990s yielded very limited gains in poverty reduction. The
national poverty rate in 1998-99, estimated at 33 percent, was only slightly lower than that of 1990-91.
Progress in poverty reduction was also unevenly distributed across the country. Whilst urban poverty
declined from 29 to 24 percent, there was no progress in poverty reduction in rural areas where almost 80
percent of the poor reside. The incidence of poverty in rural areas remained at 36 percent. This is a
summary of why the current Finance Minister has called the 1990s a "lost decade".
Table 1: Incidence of Poverty (1998-99)
Urban                   Rural                    Total
Head     Percental e of:  Head  Percenta e of:  Head     Percenta e of:
Count  Population Poor  Count Population  Poor  Count  Population  Poor
National     24.2     100.0   100.0  35.9    100.0   100.0   32.6     100.0   100.0
Punjab       26.5     54.7    59.9   34.7    52.8     51.0   32.4     53.3    52.8
Sindh         19.0    34.8    27.4   37.1    17.8     18.3   29.2     22.6    20.2
NWFP         31.2      7.0    9.1   46.5     16.0    20.7    44.3     13.4    18.2
Balochistan  28.4      2.5    2.9   24.0     6.5      4.4    24.6      5.4     4.1
5.    In urban and rural areas, the poor tend to be employed as wage laborers in the non-farm sector. A
significant proportion of the poor are also self-employed or employing family labor, indicating the
importance of small household enterprises for livelihood, both in urban and rural areas. In rural areas, the
incidence of poverty is the highest among the landless who make up more than one-half of the rural
population. The landless constitute 70 percent of the rural poor. In contrast, only about 20 percent of
those who own at least one hectare of land are poor. Reviving agriculture and its multiplying effect on
off-farm rural economic activities is therefore critical for poverty reduction. In addition to the high
incidence of poverty, there is also strong concentration of families around the poverty line implying that a
significant share of the population faces the risk of falling into poverty as a result of illness, drought, or
volatility of the economy.
C. The Social Gap of Human Development
6.    In Paldstan, even when growth and poverty reduction occurred in the past, these gains did not
translate into adequate improvements in human development. Compared to other countries at this
income, Pakistan has 11 percentage points higher infants born with low birth-weight, 27 more infant
deaths per thousand, and 23 percentage points less share of population with access to sanitation. In
education, Pakistan has 20 percentage points fewer of its elementary school-age children enrolled in
primary school, explained entirely by the 40 percentage points fewer of elementary school-age girls who
attend primary school. Also, 24 percentage points more of the population is illiterate. To some extent
these dismal results are due to insufficient public spending, although poor governance also played a major
role. Pakistan still spends 1.6 percent of GDP less in public health and 1.4 percent of GDP less in
education than countries at its level of income. This constitutes the "social gap", which is inimical to its
long-term growth prospects.
See Annex D for a detailed discussion of Pakistan's poverty situation.
2



The State of Education
7.     Educational attainment in the 1990s has   Table 2: Primary Gross Enrollment Rates (%)
shown little progress. The primary gross enrollment  Pakistan  1991  1995-96  1996-97  1998-99
rate has stagnated.   Enrollments also  show   Urban         81     88       87      91
sigificant rural-urban differences, and while the  Rural    59      64       63      61
gender gap closed slightly, this was unfortunately  -       78      81       78       78
in part due to decline in male enrollments. Primary  Male   78      81       78      78
net enrollment rates-a   better measure   for - Female       53     60       61       60
educational attainment-tell an even starker story.  Aggregate  65   71       70       69
The national enrollment rate was 51 percent in
1998-99, which included large nrral-urban and male-female gaps, with enrollment for girls in rural areas
as low as 36 percent. Educational attainment is also closely related to poverty. The net primary
enrollment rate is 59 percent for the non-poor and a dismal 37 percent for the poor.
The State of Health
8.     Despite some progress in  Table 3: Access to Health Facilities and Health Indicators (1998-99)
improving health indicators and
reducing population growth in the  Selected Health Indicators             or Worker
1990s, the health status in Paisian                                In Village  Not in Village
is still characterized by a high  Infant MortaLity per 1000:         83.2         99.4
population growth rate, a high     Male                               87.1        95.0
incidence  of low   birth-weight   Female                            79.0         103.8
infants   (one  of the  highest
maternal mortality rates in the  Child Mortalityper 1000:            104.0        129.5
world) and   low  indicators  of   Male                              113.3        113.6
maternal health.  While infant     Female                            94.0         145.9
mortality rate has fallen during the  Incidence of Pre-natal Consultation (%)  26.0  13.7
1990s, it has fallen more slowvly  Proportion of Deliveries Unassisted by  42.9   52.2
than in comparable countries and  Trained Personnel(%)                        _
Pakistan  now  has the highest
mortality rate in South Asia. Progress in preventive health care has also been limited; only about half of
the children in the country were immunized in 1996-97, including only about 40 percent of children from
the lowest income quintile. Large variations exist in health indicators across regions, economic status,
and education levels of women in particular. Lastly, although the knowledge of contraceptives increased
sharply during the 1990s (from 38 percent to 92 percent), and the contraceptive prevalence ratio almost
doubled, the use still remains very low at 20 percent of married women ages 15-49. Infectious and
parasitic diseases, including malaria and tuberculosis remain as severe threats.
9.     Availability of facilities plays a significant role in determining these outcomes, especially in rural
areas. Only 69 percent of the nrral population of Pakistan live in villages that have health care facilities
or trained health care worker. Yet the fact that the presence of a relevant facility within a short distance is
associated with better health outcomes alike, speaks for the need to expand access to facilities.
II. GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
A. Laying the Foundations foir Poverty Reduction
10.    Since assuming power in October 1999, the military government showed awareness of the
country's difficult circumstances. Its response was the quick articulation of ambitious refonns aimed at
modemizing Pakistan, and its institutions. Many aspects of the reform agenda built on efforts of previous
3



administrations, yet a salient new feature was the government's attention to governance. Cross-cutting
measures to improve governance were made the center of the reform program so Pakistan could gradually
rebuild its severely eroded credibility, re-establish confidence in public institutions, and improve the
investment climate to revive growth.
11.   Progress in the implementation of reforms during the first two years of the administration was
unprecedented-both for the scope and the depth of reforms. In the short period of time leading to the
fiscal year 2002 budget, the govemment made significant progress in turning around the poor governance
environment that was at the core of Pakistan's deteriorating performance. It implemented measures to
reform key institutions, reduce the fiscal deficit, encourage export-oriented growth, improve the climate
for domestic and foreign investment, strengthen the banking system, improve public financial
management and accountability, enhance transparency and external oversight of government actions,
strengthen social safety nets, and improve the delivery of key public services in health, education, and
family planning.
12.   These reforms were actively supported by a ten-month US$600 million Stand-By Arrangement
approved by the IMF Board in November 2001; new short term liquidity relief approved by the Paris
Club in January 2001; a US$350 million Structural Adjustment Credit approved by IDA in June 2001,
and new program lending from the AsDB. Key policy measures implemented during this period include:
On Reducing the Fiscal Deficit through Tax Policy and Expenditure Reforms
*  The coverage of the (value added) General Sales Tax was expanded to include electricity, natural
gas, services, and agriculture inputs. The provinces promulgated new Agriculture Tax Laws with
a combination of acreage-based land tax and income tax for large farms.
*  A tax drive was initiated to enhance tax compliance, notwithstanding opposition from vested
interest.
*  Public spending was revamped, to reduce the share of military spending and increase the share of
social and poverty-related spending.
On Improving Debt Management and deepening Financial Sector Reforms
* The government's domestic debt instruments were reformed with a view to reduce the costs of
borrowing and promote deeper capital markets. New long term securities were launched-
Pakistan Investment Bonds-and the excessive yields paid by the Ministry of Finance's National
Savings Schemes reduced.
On Improving the Climate for Export-Oriented Growth
*  The policy measures that repressed wheat and cotton prices were eliminated and prices allowed to
align with international prices.
*  Stability and transparency of policies were increased as exemptions and privileges on income tax,
value added tax, or special import duties were eliminated or allowed to phase-out. The
government reduced or eliminated the differential application of excise taxes on imported and
domestic products, so as to bring down the maximum nominal effective tariff to 35 percent on all
but eleven specified products made subject to regulatory duty.
4



On Promoting Foreign Direct Invwstment in Areas Dominated by the State
* A Privatization Ordinance was promulgated and a program for the privatization of the country's
major public enterprises in telecommunications, banking, power, oil, and gas, was launched with
assistance of top financial advisors. The privatization of the first of three state-owned LPG plants
was completed.
* Retail and ex-refinery prices of petroleum products started to be adjusted in line with
international prices. Furnace oil and LPG markets were liberalized.
* To support new and existing investments in the high-potential natural gas sector a new gas
pricing framework was established at the consumer level in a manner consistent with existing
well-head pricing policies.
On Improving Public Financial Accountability
* The country's first law defining the functions, powers, and accountabilities of the Pakistan
Auditor General was promulgated. Responsibilities for the accounting were devolved by law to
the newly established Office of the Comptroller General of Accounts under the Ministry of
Finance. This separation of powers, and the promulgation of a Law to cement the powers of the
Auditor General were long overdue.
* The federal and provincial governments established ad-hoc Public Account Committees (PAC) to
review years of pending audit reports. To promote transparency and accountability the federal
PAC took the unprecedent d measure of opening its hearing to the press.
On Civil Service Reforms
* To restore merit-based recruitment, the government amended the Federal Public Service
Commission (FPSC) Ordinance, so as to enhance FPSC's independence, increase its financial
autonomy, and expand its role in the recruitment. Programs to improve training, induce merit-
based promotion, and improve accountability were implemented.
On Improving Human Development and Service Delivery
* A far reaching devolutiori program was prepared and implementation started through nation-wide
local government elections.
* To improve the delivery of services the provincial govermnents (with the assistance of Army
Monitoring Teams) took effective measures to improve deployment of health and education staff,
established systems to control absenteeism, and rationalize the investment program for
community infrastructure projects.
* An Education Sector Relbrm Strategy and action plan was formulated by the federal government
with the participation of ihe provinces.
On Expanding Social Safety Nets and Income Opportunities to the Poor
*  To promote employment and self-employment opportunities, the govermment launched a large
community-based infrastructure program (Kushal) and established a Micro-Finance Bank
operating in rural areas.
5



* The government established a Food Support Program, a direct cash transfer program that covers
1.2 million beneficiary families and strengthened the Zakat public charity program.
B. Recent Economic Performance
13.   Prior to September 11, 2001, the program of reforms adopted by the government was starting to
show positive results2. Despite the most severe drought in recorded history, GDP grew by 2.7 percent.
Greater exchange-rate flexibility (the Rupee depreciated by 23 percent in fiscal year 2000/01) helped to
achieve strong export growth (9 percent). Manufacturing sector growth was also strong at about 8
percent, and for the first time in years, positive growth was recorded across all industrial groups. For the
first time in years, there was a substantial reduction in the fiscal deficit from 6.5 to 5.3 percent of GDP.
14.   Notwithstanding the inability to meet ambitious revenue targets, the trend of falling CBR
revenues in relation to GDP, was arrested and reverted. Improvements in expenditure management
ranged from reforms of the domestic debt market, which led to a large decrease in the interest bill, to a
streamlined investment program, and to the continuation of the decline in military expenditures as a share
of GDP. Pro-poor expenditures in basic education and primary health increased despite the strong
expenditure cuts. Importantly, the ratio of social spending (health and education) to defense spending has
improved (see Figure 4). Reserve objectives were met and inflation remained low. As a result of this
good performance, the ten-month Stand-By Program was successfully completed in September 2001,
paving the way for a three-year US$1.25 billion Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) with the
IMF and longer term debt rescheduling with the Paris Club; both approved in December 2001.
15.    The events of September 11, 2001 and the ensuing escalation of tensions with India highlighted
some of the risks to the road to recovery. In the short run, exports, foreign direct investment, and the
prospects for privatization have been severely affected. GDP growth estimates for this fiscal year have
been lowered from 4 to 3.3 percent. The slower growth has affected tax collections and the financing gap
envisaged for this fiscal year increased by US$1 billion. On the expenditure side, the declining trend of
military expenditures in relation to GDP has been temporarily reversed. Defense expenditures are
projected to increase this fiscal year by about 0.4 percent of GDP due to security concerns related to the
Afghan war. Spending on pro-poor expenditures have been slower than originally anticipated due to the
transition arrangements linked to the establishment of the local governments, and also the disruptions in
implementation caused by the September II events. The government has been determined to take all
possible actions to accelerate these expenditures by releasing funds to the provinces and districts and
short-cutting the bureaucratic procedures that have often been a source of delays. Notwithstanding these
efforts, expenditures during this fiscal year may fall short of their anticipated goals.
16.    The prompt response of the intemational community has, in the meantime, helped to ameliorate
the impact of the negative shocks. The United States, Japan, UK, and the European Union have provided
budgetary support and/or enhanced access to exports to protect spending on social sectors, and help to
increase the financing gap. The Paris Club provided a generous package of debt rescheduling under terms
similar to Naples -but without the debt reduction component. This package provides strong liquidity
relief (US$3.3 billion) over a three-year period and some implicit debt reduction as the net present value
of debt to exports after the deal has been reduced from about 260 percent to 230 percent. More recently,
donor countries including the United States, Canada, Gernany, Italy, and the United Kingdom, have
announced further packages of relief that include outright debt forgiveness (the United States), or debt-
swaps. Debt sustainability, however, remains a major concern as external indicators are still above the
HIPC thresholds of sustainability.
2 For a more complete description and analyses of recent macroeconomic developments see Annex C: Macroecononmic
Framework.
6



17.   How Pakistan finally emerges from the environment precipitated by September 11 is uncertain.
The lifting of sanctions and the sutpport of the international community opened up renewed opportunities,
provided that Pakistan stays the course in implementation of reforms. First, the favorable terms granted
by the Paris Club for Pakistan's debt rescheduling and the prospect (based on performance) of sustained
IFI financing provide three years of breathing space to decisively implement the reforms needed to restore
growth. Second, Pakistan's renewed access to bilateral concessional or grant financing can help to
protect pro-poor expenditures during the fiscal consolidation. Third, the opportunity to build up reserves
at a faster than envisaged pace could help to accelerate private sector confidence and also provide the
space for some easing of monetary policy to reduce interest rates and stimulate growth.
III. PAKISTAIF'S STRATEGY FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
A. The Building Blocks of the I-PRSP
18.   The program of reforms initiated in 1999 has since been institutionalized in an Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PR13P), which was discussed at the Boards of the Bank and the LMF in
December 2001. The I-PRSP is based on macroeconomic adjustment, improved governance, sector, and
cross-cutting policy reforms to improve the business environment, human resource development, and
social protection. The government considers that progress is needed in all these fronts to foster growth
that translates into improvements in the living standards of the population at large, and the poor. The I-
PRSP specifies four main pillars for economic and institutional reforms in years ahead: (i) engendering
growth; (ii) improving governance; (iii) improving human development; and (iv) improving income
generation opportunities and social protection for the poor. To assess the effects of associated reforms,
the I-PRSP also puts emphasis on the development of a system to track progress in achievement of these
objectives-especially in human development and poverty reduction objectives (see Annex I)).
B. I-PRSP Expected Outcomes
19.   Development Objectives and Outcomes. Consolidation of macroeconomic fundamentals and the
government's comprehensive reform agenda are consistent with achievement of the twin goals of higher
growth and faster poverty reduclion. While not too ambitious, the growth rate envisaged in the I-PRSP
represents a big increment from tecent performance. Growth in Pakistan has been well below its potential
for a decade as a result of low savings mobilization, poor business, inefficient public spending and
political and economic uncertainty. The achievement of the economic targets hinge on improving the
investment climate, which in turn depends on the timely implementation of the structural agenda, and in
the acceleration of reforms in key areas-privatization, water management, tax administration, and
agriculture support services. De'lays in policy implementation will reduce the likelihood of the I-PRSP's
economic targets being achieved.
20.    Outcome measurement, Tracking and Monitoring. In Pakistan the various data sources and
definitional differences have olten led to conflicting measures on important indicators; such as the
incidence of poverty measures, gross and net enrollment rates and immunization coverage. This has
resulted in the I-PRSP reflecting several sources as baseline information, which requires careful
evaluation. The existing expected outcomes should be viewed as preliminary. The government is
working (as a part of the full PItSP process) to rationalize baseline information, and setting targets that
are consistent with the adopted data sources and definition. These efforts, which are being supported by
the World Bank and other donor;, include:
* Monitoring Expenditures
(i)  Monitoring human development and pro-poor expenditures.  The government has
established an elaborate reporting system that disaggregates expenditures by major areas
7



and/or programs reporting for each province and the federal level. Preliminary quarterly
reports based on un-reconciled data are available no later than six weeks after a quarter's
end and made public through the Ministry of Finance's web-site. Reports based on
reconciled and more refined data that includes salary and non-salary expenditures are
available about three months after a quarter's end.
Table 4: Expected Outcomes Under the I-PRSP
Areas and Indicators                     End-Period-Outcomes (2004)
1. Overall
a) GDP growth rate                        5.2 percent (up from 2.7 percent)
b) Poverty (caloric)                      25.3 percent (down from 32.2 percent in 1998/99)
2. Private Sector
a) Total private investment                13.6 percent of GDP (up from 12 percent)
b) Foreign direct investment and privatization  US$800 million (up from 330 million)
c) Exports                                US$10.5 billion (up from US$9 billion)
3. Public Finance
a) Pro-poor I-PRSP expenditures           5.1 percent of GDP (up from 3.4 percent)
b) CBR Revenues                           12.2 percent of GDP (up from 11.3 percent)
c) Net public debt                        84 percent of GDP (down from 101 percent)
d) Public Financial Management            Timely, cormprehensive, reconciled data using
modem chart of public accounts (Table 6)
4. Social Sectors
a) Gross primary enrollment rate          80 percent (up from 71 percent)
b) Gross primary enrollment rate female   75 percent (up from 60 percent)
c) Infant mortality rate                  65 per 1,000 births (down from 85 per 1,000)
d) Immunization coverage                  62 percent (up from 49 percent)
e) Population growth rate                 1.8 percent (down from 2.2 percent)
* Monitoring of Intermediae and Find Outcome Indicators
(i)  Adopting a national poverty line and consistently update for trends in poverty.
(ii)  Selecting priority indicators for monitoring poverty outcomes and related intermediate
targets. This entails setting baselines and targets, employing a consistent definition and an
identified data source, and involving the provinces and local governments, where most of
the service delivery takes place and the information resides.
(iii) Building technical capacity, particularly in the provinces and districts-an important aspect
in implementing effective monitoring.
Progress in establishing an MDG baseline database, monitoring of intermediate and final outcome
indicators, and tracking expenditures is discussed in some detail in Armex D.
C. Pfflar 1: Engendering Growth
21.    As noted from Table 4, the I-PRSP specifies that Pakistan's main challenge is to revive economic
growth to at least 5 percent per year to accelerate poverty reduction. The government has made economic
revival the central objective of reforms. There are two core elements of this growth recovery strategy.
First, recognition that the prevailing macroeconomic imbalances will have to be corrected through a
combination of prudent fiscal, monetary and exchange rate management. And second, the business
climate will need to be substantially improved by modernizing regulations, liberalization to boost
8



domestic and foreign private investment, and privatization with a view to improve the efficiency of key
public sector enterprises. The main aspects of the privatization program are presented in Table 5.
Macroeconomic Framework
22.    The details of the I-PRSI' macroeconomic framework are contained in Annex C and associated
policies are incorporated in the PRGF program with the IMF approved in December 2001. Essentially,
the core elements of the macroecanomic framework are to secure:
*  Debt sustainability. Given the severity of the debt burden, the strategy gives top priority to
addressing the debt problem through fiscal consolidation and more rapid and stable export
growth. Specifically, the objectives are to reduce external and domestic debt through surpluses in
the primary budget balance and in the non-interest external current account balance. Good
macroeconomic policies and sustained structural reforms are both equally important to achieve
these objectives. Without such a turn-around, the risks and vulnerability to domestic and
external shocks will remain high and negative market sentiment will preclude stronger private
investment.
*  Improving revenue mobilization and changing the composition of expenditures. For fiscal
consolidation increased revenue mobilization is needed to create the fiscal space for development
expenditure. The strategy also seeks to re-orient expenditures by reducing the cost of domestic
debt, improving perfonnance of public enterprises, and reducing the share of defense
expenditures to GDP. Success in revenue mobilization through CBR reforms and strengthened
capacity in the social sect:ors to develop and implement more ambitious programs will be the key
in achieving the proposed. changes in the composition of expenditures (see Figures 3 and 4).
Figure 3                                     Figure 4
Adjustment under the I-PRSI' program Cnugtq C.ufusm dFEpeudilte itLPRSP
7 0                            143                                          Snio5
6 0                        -- I[n404
135 0                                        7'0 
5 0~~~~~~~~~~~11
4 c                              :3. 33 e   0                                 34  D iS
1120                                     2020                                 Sn 2
11                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~123  1
12.0         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
8                                    On
--DeftUpseplstmo (waip0 pUE)
Improving the Business Climate through Market Liberalization and Regulatory Reforms
23.    The strategy focuses oni improving the credibility and stability of government policies by
providing a level playing field tD all areas of business, removing distortions, and reducing the cost of
doing business. To encourage exports, the strategy seeks to deepen trade liberalization. Because of their
growth potential and/or impact on poverty reduction, the strategy also focuses on a few key sectors: (a)
agriculture through pricing reforms, market liberalization, and access to credit; (b) information
technology through regulatory reforms, elimination of barriers to entry, and education; (c) natural gas
sector reforms through pricing policies that provide comfort and incentives to private investors; and (d)
support to the small and medium manufacturing, for which banking and financial sector reforms are very
important to improve access to credit. The privatization of the major public sector enterprises are also
9



expected to improve efficiency and contribute to growth by attracting foreign direct investment
embodying good management and modem technologies.
Table 5: Pakistan Privatization Program
(Key Transactions)
Bidding Date  Bid Amount
Name of Enterprise                      Sector        Brief description of assets divested        (Tarpet)   (USS milldon)
Transactions completed/advanced stage
Sui Southern Gas Co. Ltd: LPG Facilities  Oil & Gas   Bottling and distribution plant           August 2000       6.8
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd: LPG Facilities  Oil & Gas  Bottling and distribution plant      October 2001      2.3
Pak-Saudi Fertilizer Ltd.               Industry       Large urea manufacturing plant           March 2002       135.8
Working Interest in nine oil & gas fields  Oil & Gas  Oil and gas production and exploration    April 2002       176.3
United Bank Ltd.                        Banking       Fourth largest commercial bank            May 2002
Allied Bank Ltd.                        Banking       Divestment of 49% minority shares - fifth largest  June 2002
commercial bank
Pakistan Telecommunication Co. Ltd.     Telecom        Exclusive operator of fixed telephony Mobile  June 2002
communications
Pakistan State Oil                      Oil & Gas     Largest oil marketing company             September
2002
Karachi Electric Supply Corp.           Power         Karachi's power generation, transmission and  September
distribution utility                      2002
Oil & Gas Development Co. Ltd.          Oil & Gas      Largest exploration and production company  October 2002
Follow-up Transactions (PY2003-2004)
Faisalabad Electric Supply Co.           Power         Fourth largest power distnbution conpany     FY03
Jamshoro Generation Co.                  Power         Fourth largest generation company around Sindh  FY03
Habib Bank Ltd.                          Banking       Second largest commercial bank               FY03
Sui Southern Gas Co. Ltd.                Oil & Gas     Second largest gas transmission and distribution  FY04
company
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd.          Oil & Gas     Largest gas transmission and distribution    FY04
company
Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.                 Oil & Gas      Largest producer of natural gas              FY04
Overali Business Environment
24.      Issues and Strategy.       The business environment has been permeated by               excessive   state
interventions that raise the cost of doing business and encourage rent-seeking, particularly by large firms.
The anti-export bias of policies remain high because of high protection and inefficiencies in tax
administration to rebate GST and duty-drawbacks. The government seeks economic revival through
stronger export growth from a widening industrial and agriculture base, facilitated by the reduction in the
anti-export bias through reduction in tariff rates and improved tax administration, a favorable business
environment that includes stable policies, adoption of modem         and better administered regulations. The
objective is to reduce the nuisance value of regulations that facilitate corruption, which have an especially
detrimental effect on the small and medium enterprise sector. With a large proportion of the poor
deriving their income from wage labor in these type of enterprises, an aggressive program of regulatory
reforms could have an important impact on poverty reduction.
25.      Actions Taken.     The stability of government policies has increased, and incentives for rent-
seeking reduced. The new income tax law establishes uniform taxes for all companies other than banks,
and limits exemptions to existing contractual arrangements. Time-bound regulatory duties, which provide
protection in excess of the maximum tariff, are being allowed to lapse without extension, and custom duty
exemptions or GST exemptions are no longer granted. High level Committees for regulatory, legal, and
policy reforms have been established under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance to design and
implement time-bound programs of reforms with special focus on small and medium enterprises. The
10



Ministry of Industries, assisted by the Small and Medium Size Enterprise Development Authority
(SMEDA), has taken the lead by eliminating unnecessary price controls over essential products. The
1977 Price Control and Hoarding Act, which covered sixty-six essential products has been dismantled.
Sixty-four products have been liberalized with only text-books and fertilizer remaining under the purview
of the Act. A program to revise the labor laws with a view to promote simplicity and encourage
employment is underway and has benefited from assistance from the International Labor Organization.
To reduce protection, the government has reduced the maximum tariff rate from 35 percent to 30 percent,
and CBR has expedited the payments of the GST and duty drawbacks due to exporters. The backlog of
refunds due which exceeded U'S$100 million at the beginning of this fiscal year has been vastly reduced.
26.    Future Actions. Key future actions include the implementation of the strategy for regulatory
reforms being developed, and the modernization and consolidation of labor laws to promote employment.
Such a strategy would benefit from the findings of the survey on small and medium enterprises currently
being carried out with assistance from the Bank and an analysis of administrative barriers to business
about to start in conjunction with the Bank's private sector development group.  Continued
implementation of trade liberal]zation by reducing the maximum tariff to 25 percent and tariff slabs from
four to three in fiscal year 2002/03; elimination of duty on polyester and other critical inputs for the
textile sector; and continued implementation of program to grant no new exemptions or special privileges
regarding income tax or GST; phasing out of time-bound regulatory import duties; and further reforms to
fully eliminate delays in duty drawback and GST refund to exporters.
Agriculture Sector Reform
27.   Issues and Strategy. Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. It accounts for one
fourth of GDP and also impacts the rest of the economy through strong linkages to other sectors such as
manufacturing. Agriculture also has a strong impact on poverty as eighty percent of Pakistan's poor live
in rural areas. The main challenge is to increase productivity and reduce vulnerability 1o shocks. The
government is in the process of developing a comprehensive rural development strategy to reduce
distortions in commodity and input markets, and create incentives to improve productivity. The latter
entails improving access to stale-owned land, credit, infrastructure, water, and to provide opportunities in
the non-farm sector. The mos;t developed part of the strategy focuses on improving the efficiency of
commodity markets by reducing the role of the state in marketing and storage; and aligning domestic and
international prices.
28.    Actions Taken. A strong program of deregulation and market liberalization is underway with
technical and financial support from the AsDB3. To improve efficiency in commodity and seed markets,
all restrictions to inter-province and inter-district movement have been eliminated. To encourage private
sector investment in storage and marketing of wheat, wholesale prices are now allowed to vary
throughout the season to reflect storage costs. To encourage private sector participation in the seed
market, no new subsidies will be granted to public seed production or marketing. Pro-poor programs for
rural infrastructure have been strengthened significantly, and their budget has doubled in fiscal year
2001/02 (see Table 2 in Annex C).
29.    Future Actions. Key benchmarks include: market liberalization of sugar by removing zoning of
areas, compulsory sales to the nearest sugar mill, and removal of all restrictions for exports and marketing
of brown sugar and molasses. Increased efficiency in the cotton market through adoption of a national
standardized grading system. Elimination of producer subsidy for wheat by reducing the role of the
existing price support system wvith market-based procurement at import parity prices. A key area to be
developed during the coming year and beyond is the preparation and implementation of a more
comprehensive rural development strategy, as highlighted in the recently completed Development Policy
3This program was developed lar;3ely on the basis of Bank economic and sector work including Strategic Reforms for
Agriculture Growth in Pakistan, April 1999.



Review and the Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP. Such a comprehensive strategy would need to
focus on technology, water, rural infrastructure, land market policies, and fiscal/taxation issues that affect
the efficient use and distribution of land.
Banking Sector Reform
30.   Issues and Strategy. Since 1997 (with support from the Bank), much progress has been achieved
in reducing the enormous burden of the state banks on the economy. Regulations have been strengthened,
loan recoveries increased, and the quality of management improved. Reforms are far from complete. The
state-owned banks, with about 60 percent of market-share, have very high operating costs, bad loan
portfolios, and their dominant market position stifles competition. The government envisions a banking
system in private hands, operating under rigorous banking regulations, in a competitive financial
environment. The core strategy is to privatize all three of its nationalized commercial banks and divest
minority interest in the two partially privatized banks.
31.    Actions Taken. Banking sector reforms have continued at an accelerated pace. With Bank
support, the three large nationalized commercial banks are being restructured to reduce their cost and
make them more attractive for privatization. More than 8,000 staff has opted for voluntary retirement and
650 branches have been closed, mostly in urban areas.  The National Finance Development
Corporation-the largest state-owned non-bank financial institution, has been closed through a merger
with the National Bank of Pakistan. The process leading to privatization has continued. In the two
private banks where the state has participation; the government has divested 6 percent of its shares in the
Muslim Commercial Bank, and is committed to divest the remaining 9 percent of these shares. For Allied
Bank Limited, the Privatization Commission has already advertised for a block sale of the Government's
49 percent shares. The strengthening of prudential regulations continues.
32.    Future Actions.  Key benchmarks include: completion of the restructuring of the three
nationalized commercial banks leading to the voluntary retirement of about 25,000 staff and closure of
close to 900 branches; divestment of all shares in the Muslim Commercial Bank and Allied Bank
Limited; and privatization of Habib Bank Limited and United Bank Limited.
Natural Gas Sector Reform
33.   Issues and Strategy. Natural gas is one of the largest domestic energy resources of Pakistan, and
accounts for about 40 percent of total commercial use. With large proven reserves, and promising recent
discoveries, natural gas can play an important role in meeting the long-term energy needs of the country.
While the sector already attracts the biggest share of Pakistan's foreign direct investment, development
has fallen short of potential because of uncertainty over government policies, inefficient pricing, and state
control over the largest fields and sector infrastructure. While pricing policies to promote exploration and
production were adequate, they were not consistent with consumer pricing. All consumer prices were to
some extent subsidized, and indeed there was no established pricing policy. Maintenance of this situation
was facilitated by under-pricing the gas from the large state-owned fields, which still account for more
than 50 percent of production. The government strategy is to encourage private investment by
establishing a credible, market-based pricing framework across the production, distribution, and
consumption chain; and focus the role of government to policy formulation by devolving regulation to an
independent Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority; and privatizing its largest gas production company
Pakistan Petroleum Limited and its two distribution companies.
34.   Actions Taken. The most significant action has been the establishment of a consistent pricing
framework. This is a radical change from the past when consumer prices (e.g., domestic, commercial,
industrial, and others), were adjusted without any regularity with respect to time or amount. The new
pricing framework includes: (a) the semi-annual adjustment of consumer prices in a manner that is
consistent with the well-head pricing policy; (b) the gradual reduction of cross-subsidies among
12



consumers over a three year pen od; and (c) the gradual adjustment of well-head prices of the large state-
owned Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), to bring these prices in line with those prevailing for the
private sector over a period of five years. This policy measure will also pave the way for the privatization
of PPL and hasten the structural reform process in the gas sector. Notwithstanding the phasing of these
adjustments, the average prices for consumers over the last two years has increased by about 30 percent
(except for lifeline tariff for households and fertilizer feedstock). A policy setback during the last year
was the adoption of a new fertilizer policy that extends the privilege to the industry to access gas at prices
that are a small fraction of the process paid by competing users, especially industry. The cost of this
subsidy is estimated at about 0.3 percent of GDP.
35.    Future Acdons. Important benchmarks are the continued implementation of the new pricing
framework with inclusion of additional reforms as needed. These include: (a) improving the targeting of
the lifeline rate to domestic consumers by reducing eligibility of this rate from 100 m3 per month to a
level that is consistent with the ':onsumption of the poor; (b) promoting efficiency of transportation and
distribution by replacing the current price system based on guaranteed rates of returns; and (c) making the
subsidy to the fertilizer industry transparent through the budget, starting in fiscal year 2003/04. Finally,
accelerating private sector participation in transport and distribution is also a priority. This includes the
privatization of the two state-owned distribution companies, and launching the privatization of PPL, as
soon as the new Gas Purchase Agreement of PPL is enacted in early fiscal year 2002/03.
Petroleum Sector Reform
36.   Issues and Strategy. Petroleum products constitute the largest source of commercial energy in
Pakistan; annual imports at USS2.8 billion account for more than 25 percent of imports. Until recently
the petroleum downstream sector was tightly controlled by the government, resulting in little competition,
inefficiencies, inadequate and delayed investments in infrastructure, and poor quality of products. The
government, envisions a competitive sector where state involvement is significantly reduced, prices are
determined by market forces, arid where product quality is higher contributing to a cleaner environment.
Extensive market deregulation, privatization and competition are the main components of the strategy.
37.    Actions Taken. Over the last two years implementation of reforms have occurred at an
unprecedented pace. In less than two years the price-setting mechanism had a complete turn-around.
From a system in which price adjustments took place in an irregular manner and required a Cabinet
decision, prices are now either f-ee (furnace oil or LPG) or are being adjusted on a fortnightly basis in line
with international prices both at the retail and ex-refinery levels. Pakistan is now the first country in
South Asia where petroleum products prices are adjusted in such a manner on a periodic basis. Markets
have been further deregulated and now oil marketers and large consumers are free to import all products.
Administration of the freight pool has been transferred to the oil companies and transport rates to
secondary markets have been liberalized allowing prices to differ across some geographical areas, in
accordance with the distance from the primary depot. Subsidies to the refineries have started to be made
transparent and through the budget. Environmental standards have been strengthened, and unleaded
gasoline is now available to 70 percent of the population. The second of the three government owned
LPG plants was privatized and the bidding for the government's interests in nine oil and gas fields has
been completed (see Table 5).
38.    Future Actions. Future important benchmarks include the complete deregulation of the diesel
market, which accounts for about 45 percent of the petroleum products markets; setting of ex-refmery and
consumer prices as ceilings to foster more competition, the continued dismantling of the freight pool, and
introduction of cleaner fuels. Except where contractual obligations exist, subsidies to the refineries would
be phased out. As part of the privatization program bring to the point of sale during this calendar year the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (one of the country's largest companies), and also Pakistan State
Oil Ltd, which is the country's I irgest retail distribution company.
13



Power Sector Reform
39.   Issues and Strategy . A key development challenge for Pakistan's power sector is to contribute
more effectively to the country's development. There is a dire need to: (a) expand electricity supplies;
electricity now reaches less than 55 percent of the population, mainly in urban/semi-urban areas and with
the majority of rural areas not covered; (b) meet the requirements of the productive sectors in an efficient
and more reliable manner; and (c) restore the financially viability of the sector so it does not continue to
be a source of macroeconomic instability.
40.    Power sector reform in Pakistan started in the early 1990s, and Pakistan was successful in
attracting large private investments in generation who now provide about one third of Pakistan's power.
Yet reforms were incomplete. Governance problems in distribution, which is entirely under government
control through the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) and the Karachi Electricity
Supply Company (KESC), continued and there was limited progress in curtailing commercial and
technical losses. While production costs increased, including the need to pay for the capacity of the new
private generation plants, the client base and consumption grew slowly. This raised the financial strain of
WAPDA and KESC, who also received little relief because of inadequate tariff policies. The sector has
remained a source of macroeconomic instability, threatening achievement of the fiscal deficit targets and
expenditure priorities of the I-PRSP.
41.    The government strategy is to improve the efficiency and the financial viability of the sector
through competition, accountability, and managerial autonomy; all while establishing a credible pricing
and regulatory framework. The main vehicle to achieve efficiency gains is the unbundling and
corporatization of WAPDA's power wing into independent distribution (eight), generation (three), and
transmission companies with a view to the privatization of distribution and generation. This process has
started with the privatization of KESC, with bidding now scheduled for July 2002. During the transition
towards privatization of the remaining distribution and generation companies, the financial viability of the
sector would be attained through the implementation of a financial improvement plan that has been
agreed by all parties. At the core of the financial plan is the adoption of tariff policies that will allow the
sector to cover its operational and debt service obligations, finance part of its investment program, and do
not recur to the government's budget to fill its financing gaps. The financial improvement plan would be
consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed under the PRGF program and compliance
monitored on a quarterly basis. Competition would be introduced through competitive bidding for new
generation capacity and benchmark competition, before a new competitive wholesale market structure is
put in place.
42.    Actions Taken. Given the drain on the budget, one of the government's top priorities is the
privatization of KESC, which is being implemented with assistance from AsDB. The process to carry out
the bidding and complete the transaction in September 2002 is underway. The Cabinet-approved
financial restructuring plan is being implemented. The plan, which is fully consistent with the agreed
macroeconomic framework, includes the debt for equity conversion of about Rs. 53 billion in KESC
obligations to the government of Pakistan, and the restructuring of Rs. 22 billion of government
guaranteed debt of KESC with commercial banks through issue of bonds with longer term maturities at
current market interest rates. Other key measures in the critical path to the privatization of KESC include:
(a) a new tariff determination by NEPRA that would include an up-front tariff increase and a 10-year
tariff formula to reduce uncertainty and risks to prospective investors. This tariff notification is scheduled
to take place in July 2002 prior to the bidding; and (b) an amendment to make the Monopoly Control
Authority decision subservient to the decisions of NEPRA regarding access to the Karachi market by
other distribution companies. Expressions of interest have been solicited, but investor interest in KESC
remains weak, posing the biggest threat to possible delays in its privatization.
4 For a more complete analysis of the sector see Annex G.
14



43.    The government's other priority is to accelerate the reforms of WAPDA through corporatization
and the implementation of the finmcial improvement plan. The process of unbundling WAPDA's power
wing aims to complete this process by the end of this calendar year. As part of this process important
intermediate measures have been recently implemented: the transfer of all staff at levels 1-16 from
WAPDA to the corporatized enti.ties was effective on April 1, 2002. The National Electricity Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) has issued the licenses to all eight corporatized distribution companies;
and the Economic Commission of the Cabinet (ECC) has approved the principles for the transfer of assets
and liabilities to the corporatized entities.
44.    A financial improvement plan covering the remainder of fiscal year 2001/02, and extending to
fiscal year 2003/04 has been agreed between the Ministry of Finance and WAPDA and is starting to be
implemented. The plan seeks to restore the sector's financial viability through a combination of tariff and
non-tariff measures. The basic principle under the plan is that WAPDA and its successor companies
would not require any budget support in fiscal year 2002/03 and beyond, and that their financing plan
would be in line with the overall macroeconomic framework. The FIP clearly identifies the main
underlying assumptions regarding: (i) client-base growth; (ii) improvements in collections and reductions
in receivables; (iii) reduction irn technical and commercial loses (lumped); (iv) rate of growth of
operational costs; and (v) investnment program. Based on these parameters, the key to the FIP is a tariff
increase that would generate an additional Rs. 23 billion in revenues in fiscal year 2002/03. This would
be reached with an increase in the average tariff of about 16 percent. The first steps for implementation
of the plan have been taken: (a) WAPDA has filed for a tariff increase of Rs. 0.58 that is consistent with
the plan; and (b) while NEPRA determines the tariff in accordance to the filing, an interim tariff increase
of Rs. 0.08 has been notified effective May 15, 2002.
45.    Future Actions. Key future benchmarks include: First, the completion of the corporatization of
WAPDA's power wing by December 2002. By the end of fiscal year 2002/03 all corporatized entities
would be functioning as autonomous bodies and under professional management.     Second,
implementation of the first stage of privatization as scheduled. KESC, Faisalabad Electricity Supply
Company, and Jamshoro Power Generation Company will have been brought to the point of sale during
fiscal year 2002/03. The second group of companies to be privatized, as well as other possible venues for
enhanced private sector participation in the sector would be identified and the process launched in the
coming fiscal year. Third, continued implementation of the financial improvement plan. This would
include quarterly monitoring and a thorough mid-year review in December 2002 to assess compliance and
take remedial actions if necessary. Fourth, to further facilitate the privatization of the corporatized sector,
the government will have issued a Policy Statement articulating its vision on the phased introduction of a
competitive power wholesale market, the tax/subsidy regime to be adopted for protecting the finances of
weaker distribution companies; and new tariff policy guidelines. NEPRA would have established a multi-
year tariff system to help reduce uncertainty and mitigate risks for potential investors based on the said
guidelines.
D. Pillar 2: Improving Governance
46.    The I-PRSP recognizes that sagging growth and rising poverty are a result of the failure of
governance. Restoring the integrity and accountability of state institutions are the hallmark of the reform
program with a particular focus on:
T Tax administration reforms. The problem of corruption and harassment in tax collection is not
only a threat to macroeconomic stability but also a leading contributing factor for Pakistan's poor
business climate. The fundamental reform of the Central Board of Revenue is a top priority of
the reform program and one of the most challenging reforms.
*  Public Financial Accountability. Improving the effectiveness of government expenditures at the
federal, provincial, and local level is a key element of the reform program. The strategy includes
15



the complete modemization of the public accounting and reporting systems, strengthening of the
audit function, procurement reforms, and increased external transparency and oversight through
the Public Account Committees and enhanced information to the public. It also includes federal
and provincial expenditure reforms, including reduction in politically motivated low return
investments, reforms of key public agencies, and instilling a three-year expenditure framework
throughout the govemment.
* Civil Service Reform. Critical to all efforts to improve the effectiveness of government
institutions is the restoration of the integrity and the efficiency of the public sector employees.
Merit-based recruitment, promotions, modemization of training, and pay and pension reforms
form the core of the strategy.
*  Devolution. Political, financial, and administrative devolution of powers to the local level is the
comerstone of the strategy to address pervasive govemance problems in service. Implementation
plans for devolution include ensuring that local govemments have the technical and
administrative capacity in their new roles, are accountable to the people, and to provide voice and
participation to citizens in the development process.
Tax Policy and Administration Reforms
47.   Issues and Strategy. The failure to improve tax administration has probably been Pakistan's
most severe weakness in economic management. Collusion between taxpayers and tax officials has been
pervasive and facilitated by the discretionary powers of tax officials, complex tax rules, and very weak
supervision of staff. The inability to reform the Central Board of Revenues has had a very negative
impact not only on the fiscal revenue side, but has also been a contributing factor to a poor overall
business environment. The govemment envisions a modem tax system based on a few buoyant, broad-
based taxes, such as the general sales tax (GST) and a modem income tax, with improved tax collections
through a modern and honest tax administration agency.
48.    Actions Taken. After a long process that included analytical work and consultations with
stakeholders, the govemment has launched a program for the fundamental restructuring of CBR. This
program has been thoroughly discussed with the IMF and the Bank, and both institutions have provided
technical support in its design and are providing support for its implementation. The blueprint for
reforms was approved by the Cabinet in November 2001. The reform strategy calls for a complete
reorganization of CBR over a three-year period with fundamental changes in human resource
management, business processes, and use of technology. To implement these reforms, CBR has been
provided the autonomy to define its human resource policy, including pay and incentives schemes, and
large administrative autonomy. With added autonomy, there will also be enhanced accountability. A
Supervisory Council chaired by the Minister of Finance and with private sector participation has been
established to oversee the reform process.
49.    New strong leadership has been appointed to carry thorough this process. The functional
reorganization of CBR has been launched. The top management tier of CBR has been strengthened with
new management areas for audit, fiscal research, information technology, tax education and facilitation,
and human resources. Staffing has been done through competitive process of candidates coming from the
private sector. Work towards establishing a large tax-payer unit in Karachi by July 2002 is progressing to
meet that schedule, and preparation for the introduction of self-assessment for income tax is ongoing,
with the objective of implementation in fiscal year 2002/03.
50.    Tax policy reforms have continued to be strengthened. The coverage of the General Sales Tax
(GST) has been expanded to include agriculture inputs and now requires compliance of small traders. A
new Income Tax Ordinance based on self-assessment and audits to reduce contact with tax officials,
16



minimal exemptions, and simplified and more equitable rates were promulgated. Provinces have started
collections of an agriculture incone tax for high-income farmers (see Box 1).
]Box 1: 'Agricultural Income Tax in Pakistan
For decades, Pakistan has been debating the issue of an agriculture income tax. Such tax was never instituted
largely for political reasons. Li Pakistan, land and agriculture -income tax are under the jurisdiction of the
provincial governments, where the political representaton ofthe large landowners has been dominant. .]n the
year 2000, all four provinces tinally took the. unprecedented measure of instituing an agricultural income tax
'(AIT). The AIT is now levied as the highest amount of eiiher a land-based tax that was already in place, and
a newly estabuished self-assessed income tax.
Structure sind Revenue Collection of the Agricultural Income Tax
'unjab    Sindh      NWFP     Baluchistan
Date of Effectiveness                               06/30/00    10/16/00  07/27/00   06/30/00
Land Tax Rates (Rs per irrigated acre)\1
0 to 5,acres                                              0          0          50         50
5 to 12.5 acres                                           0        200          72         50
12.5 to 25 acres                                        100        200         100         50
25 to 50 acres                                          300        200         100         50
50 acres or more                                        350        200         100         50
Orchard, Banana and Betel Leaf                          500        700         300        200
Income Tax Rate (Marginal)
Between Rs 0 and Rs 80,000                              0.0%       0.0%       0.0%       0.0%
Between 80,001 and Rs 100,000                           5.0%       5.0%       5.0%       5.0%
Between 100,001 and Rs 200,000                          7.5%       7.5%       7.5%       7.5%
Between 200,001 and Rs 300,000                          10.0%     10:0%      io.0%      10.0%
Rs 300,001 and above                                    15.0%     15.0%      15.0%      15.0%
Revenue Collection (Rs million)
1997/98                                                  619       110        42         0
1998/99                                                 1,000      225'       45         3
1999/00                                                 1,217      117        71         16
2000/01                                                 2,599      547        23          1
tl For taxation Durposes, two acres of un-irrigated land are considered to be equivalent to one acre of irrigated land.
Outlook and Challenges. The establi§hment'of an A.T for higher-income farmers has been a very positive
first step. Instituting an effective collection system remains a major challenge. First, political-will is going to
be sorely tested. Second, pro'tincial tax- administration is very weak and it will take. time to achieve the
capacity to administer a sophisticated tax like the AIT. The provinces are taking measures to increase
revenues from the AIT. Since the inception of the AIT, Punjab and Sindh have made it mandatory for large
farmers,(owning 50 acres or m.ore of irrigated land or 100 acres or more of un-irrigated land), to file AIT
income tax returns. As a part of the Bank support to provincial reforms, Sindh and NWFP will have a third-
party assessment of the revenum potential of the AIT, and.on that basis, agree with the Bank on. a program
with revenue targets in'FY03 and beyond
51.      Future Actions. Implementation of CBR reforms is the most significant actions for the next three
years.   Key benchmarks include: reaching the revenue targets that are a part of the macroeconomic
framework; start of a large tax-payer unit in Karachi; adoption of a new expeditious system to process
sales tax refund to exporters; the adoption of a new human resource policy and integrity drive to start in
early fiscal year 2002/03 once a human resource audit has been completed and the new personnel
management structure is in place; and the preparation of a detailed action plan for business processes
reform based on self-assessment lo minimize contact with tax-payers. At the provincial level, strengthen
collection of the agriculture incorne tax through improved tax administration.
Public Financial Management
52.      Issues and Strategy. The quality of Pakistan's public expenditures has long been compromised
by poor financial management practices. Over the years, as overall governance deteriorated, Pakistan's
17



financial management and accountability framework became atrophied. Accounting rules and regulations
were not followed, and extemal oversight was extremely weak as the Public Accounts Committees almost
ceased to function. Fiduciary risks became very high, as was confirmed by the govermment's own
findings and the first phase of the Bank's Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and
Country Procurement Assessment Review. The current govenmment made one of its top priorities to
accelerate reforms towards achieving a modem public accounting and integrated financial management
system at the federal, provincial, and district levels; to modernize the public audit function; and to
establish more effective extemal oversight through Public Accounts Committees and public access to
information. Procurement reforms are also now being launched.
53.    The Bank, the 1MF, and the govemment have been working closely in this area for more than two
years. One of the main vehicles has been the implementation of the Bank-financed "Project to Improve
Financial Reporting and Audit" (PIFRA), through which the national accounting and audit systems are
being modemized. Performance benchmarks have been established in all these areas, as the government
is keen in achieving concrete results (see Table 6). A full CFAA will be completed in fiscal year 2002/03
focusing inter alia on: (a) financial management issues at the local government level; (b) reviewing
financial management arrangements for public enterprises and autonomous bodies at the federal and
provincial level; and (c) strengthening legislative oversight in the context of a parliamentary democracy.
54.   Actions Taken in Public Accounting. The government has continued to implement fundamental
structural reforms to strengthen public financial management. The public accounting and audit functions
have been separated and the Office of the Comptroller General of Accounts (CGA) established. The
CGA has started implementation of a short and medium term program of reforms to improve the quality
of financial management. This strategy has been agreed and is supported by the Bank, the IMF, and
DFID. The short term strategy under implementation focuses on improving the existing system through
training to the district and lower local government levels; improving the coverage of reconciliation at all
levels; and tightening reporting requirements within government by requiring all transactions to be
immediately recorded and transmitted to the Comptroller General of Accounts or Accountant General
Offices to reduce unidentified expenditures.
55.    Progress in all these fronts has been considerable. By end-March 2002 reconciliation of
expenditures between Departnents and the Accountant General Office had improved from 72 to 98
percent at the federal level; maintained at a level of about 100 percent in NWFP and Balochistan;
increased from about 55 percent to 88 percent in Sindh; yet remained low at about 50 percent in Punjab.
A similar pattern of improvement has taken place on reconciliation of revenues. Federal unidentified
expenditures have also declined significantly. From almost I percent of GDP at the end of fiscal year
1999/00, they have been steadily decreasing to 0.4 percent at the end of fiscal year 2000/01 and are
expected to decrease again by the end of this fiscal year. Once the measures prescribed by the
Comptroller General of Accounts are fully implemented (mainly that the State Bank of Pakistan will not
issue payments without proper recording of the category to which the expenditures belong). It is expected
that these unidentified expenditures will decline to no more than 0.1 percent of GDP by the end of fiscal
year 2002/03. Unidentified expenditures should basically be eliminated once the accounting system is
computerized in fiscal year 2004/05. A program to reduce provincial unidentified expenditures is also
underway. At the provincial level the main issue is that expenditures are often not reported in time since,
in the interest of expediency, foreign-financed projects have been allowed to have accounting and
payment systems which lie outside of the govemment's systems. The CGA is working with all parties to
correct this anomaly.
56.    The medium term objective is to accelerate the adoption of the new public chart of accounts and
financial reporting requirements, prescribed by the President in December 2000, all under a new
computerized accounting system supported by PIFRA. The govemment has accelerated the
implementation of PIFRA and is working with the Bank on a follow-up PIFRA 2. The proposed PIFRA 2
will focus on: (a) extending the New Accounting Model and the computerized systems to the local
18



government level; (b) strengthening capacity and carrying out human resource reforms to strengthen the
qualifications of management levels in the accounting function; and (c) strengthening internal controls at
all levels of government.
Table 6: Financial Management Benchmarks
Outcome                 Performance Indicator                                    Target
I.   More reliable, timely,  I. Reconcilec' expenditure and revenues at  Target: 100% of reconciliation on a quarterly basis for all
and accurate            federal and provincial level         provinces and federal govenment at end FY03.
information of
infovemmenfinancial                                          Current Status Federal government, NWFP, Balochistan at 100%;
goverment financial                                          Sindh at about 90% on expenditures and 700/o on revenues; Punjab
at 50% o expenditures and 20% on revenues.
2. Unidenhfifid expenditures          Target: Reduction in federal unidentified expenditures to no more
than 0. 1% of GDP at end FY03. Significant reduction in
unidentified expenditures at end FY02.
Current Status: Federal unidentified expenditures at end FYOI
equivalent to 0.4% of GDP.
3. Proportion of govenment transactions  Target: 80% by end FY03 and 1000/% by end FY04.
under new modemized computerized      Current Status: System is fully manual.
accounting s:tstem
4. Time-lag for availability of detailed  Target: Fully on time expenditure reports at federal and provincial
reconciled e) penditure reports       levels immediately at the end of each month in FY04.
Current Status: Reconciled quarterly expenditure reports available
with two to three-month lag.
2.   Improved intemal        I. Establishment of an effective intemal  Target: Progressive adoption in all units. Completion by
control environment    audit unit for each Ministry.          December 2005.
Current Status: New initiative, program being developed.
3.    Reduced waste and      I. Proportion of national public      33% of national procurement being carried out under modern rules
misuse of resources    procurement canried under modernized   and regulations starting in FY04 (all federal govemment
through more cost      rules, regulations, and law.          procurement). In addition defense procurement is also expected to
effective and                                                be subject to these rules.
transparent            2. Issuing or, modem rules and
procurement system     regulations for procurement at the federal  50% of national procurement being carried out under revised
level (FY03) and approval of a new Public  modem rules and regulations a new Procurement Law in FY05 (all
Procurement Law (FY04).               federal govemment and semi-autonomous federal agencies). In
addition defense procurement is also expected to be subject to
these rules
4.   Increased determnce to  1. Timely of :ubmission of audit reports to  Target: Audit report available no later than six months after close
fraud, waste and abuse  Legislature                          of FY04 report.
of public funds through                                       Current Status: Audit report available between 9 and 12 months
extemal oversight                                             after close of FY.
2. Cash recov,:ry as per Auditor General's  Target: Start tracking in FY04 based on audit report of FY03.
recommendaiions confirmed by the PAC   Current Status: New initiative. Systems being developed.
Target: Start tracking in FY04 based on audit report of FY03.
3. Percentage of the Auditor General's  Current Status: New initiative. Systems being developed.
recommendahion accepted by the
Government
Target: Within 6 months after receipt by the PAC.
4. Timely completion of PAC review of
Auditor General's report
19



57.   Future Actions in Public Accounting. Important benchmarks are the continued improvement of
reconciliation, extended to the accounting of external resources and leading to a reduction in unidentified
expenditures; and the phased implementation of PIFRA leading to the adoption of a modem accounting
and reporting computerized systems using a new chart of accounts for all three levels of government. In
the next three years, such systems would be operational at the federal, provincial, and district level.
Implementation of these reforms, however, will require a long term strategy that addresses the provinces'
desire to carry their own accounting and treasury functions, now under the federal CGA and completes
the functional separation of Audits and Accounting by reforming the Audit and Accounts civil service
cadre that is still under the full purview of the Pakistan Auditor General. The National Reconstruction
Bureau and the Ministry of Finance are working with all parties to reach agreement on a longer-term
strategy to devolve financial management responsibilities to the provinces and implement ensuing civil
service reforms of the Audit and Accounting cadre.
58.   Actions Taken on External Oversight. Reforms continue to be implemented at a rapid pace in
the federal Public Account Committee. The PAC has completed the review of the 1996/97 Audit Report
initiated during the previous legislature. For the first time in years, the PAC is now reviewing the actions
of a government in office (the fiscal year 1999/00 Audit Report). There is widespread recognition that the
functioning of the PAC is highly satisfactory and is already promoting fundamental changes in
accountability. Since the opening of the hearings to the press (a measure supported by the previous
Adjustment Credit), there is extensive coverage by the press on the deliberations. Coverage is candid and
complete, and includes all aspects of government, including defense. Issues of misappropriation,
negligence in financial management, and the like are now public knowledge. There is broad agreement
that this is having a deterrence effect. Moreover, the PAC has already identified and requested that more
than Rs. 14 billion be recovered from misuse of funds. Of these, about Rs. 2.5 billion have been
recovered so far. To monitor this process, the Auditor General has agreed to create new head of accounts
for fiscal year 2002/03 where these recoveries will be assigned. Reforms have also been introduced to
increase the effectiveness of the PAC reviews and clear the backlog of reports. PAC Sub-Committees
have been established to review the 1997/98 and 1998/99 Audit reports. Another important measure has
been the recent opening of the provincial PAC hearings to the press.
59.   The effectiveness of the PAC could not be possible if it were not for the improved quality,
timeliness, comprehensiveness, and candidness of the audit reports. The reports straightforwardly point
to serious problems of non-compliance with rules, and lack of regard of value-for-money through over-
payments and the like. These problems are especially evident in the case of semi-autonomous
government corporations -some of which are in the process of being privatized. To further address
these issues, the corporate audit plan for this fiscal year provides for the coverage (over two years) of all
public sector corporations, autonomous bodies, and authorities. To help government address these issues,
the forthcoming CFAA will provide special attention to financial management in semi-autonomous
bodies, while PIFRA 2 will help strengthen internal controls for the core government institutions.
Finally, the program to enhance information to the public has been implemented as scheduled through
quarterly publication of fiscal accounts, and the publication of the 2001/02 budget with enhanced
information on contingent liabilities, tax expenditures, and subsidies.
60.    Future Actions on External Oversight. Important benchmarks include the completion of the
reviews by the federal PAC of the 1997/98, 1998/99, and 1999/00 Audit Reports by the end year 2002;
the continued improvement in the timeliness of the audit reports (see Table 6) and the establishment of an
information system to track compliance with the recommendations of the Auditor General's reports and
the PAC including cash recoveries; and the strengthening of internal controls through a medium term
program that will extend through 2005 and beyond. Continued improvements on fiscal transparency and
information to the public is also an important aspect of the program. This includes publication (on the
web) of quarterly expenditure reports for poverty reduction (I-PRSP expenditures); overall government
expenditures (including unidentified expenditures); bi-annual reports on the progress and quality of
20



implementation of the federally funded public investment program; and of summary Project Information
Documents of the projects entering the public investment program in fiscal year 2002/03.
61.    Actions Taken on Exp7enditure Management.    Progress was slower than expected in
implementation of first stages for the medium term budget framework. To a large extent, this was a
consequence of the government's inability to meet its fiscal targets last fiscal year, which necessitated
drastic expenditure adjustments early on in the fiscal year. This limited the implementation of the New
System of Financial Control and Budgeting introduced in June 2000 to improve the predictability in the
availability and use of resources by providing the ministries authority to spend up to a certain limit of
their budget at their desired pace. Since July 2001, the most significant actions have been: (a) the
adoption of a macroeconomic framework with realistic revenue projections-the most essential first step
for the medium term budget framework; (b) reforms to improve the quality of the federal public
investment program through more stringent project appraisal methods and establishment of new
monitoring systems for progress in implementation; and (c) preparation of rolling three-year federal
public investment programs; and (d) preparation of budgets under a medium term budget framework for
the next fiscal year has been initiated in Sindh and North West Frontier Province (NWFP). Finally, to
improve the efficiency of all expenditures the government has initiated implementation of the strategy for
procurement reforms agreed withl the Bank. An ordinance establishing a federal Public Procurement
Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has been promulgated. The PPRA is responsible for reviewing all existing
rules regulations and procedures and to establish new ones in accordance with internationally accepted
procurement standards.
62.    Future Actions on Expenditure Management. Key benchmarks in the coming two years include
furthering the implementation of the medium term budget frameworks at the federal and provincial level;
the Public Procurement Authority will have completed the review of the main rules and regulations and
established new ones with a view to increase transparency and competition and will have prepared a new
Procurement Law.
Civil Service Reform
63.   Issues and Strategy. The effectiveness of the civil service has been declining as a result of
decades of patronage, over-employment, especially at the lowest grades, and inadequate skill mix. The
government desires to create a leaner more effective civil service through holistic reforms that restores
merit-based recruitment and promotions, enhance career development through adequate training,
improved the skill mix; all encouraged by a more transparent compensation system with closer links to
market wages.
64.   Actions Taken. Implementation of the reforms initiated in early 2000, has been strong in all
fronts. In the interest of merit-bas:ed recruitment, a more autonomous Federal Public Service Commission
(FPSC) now carries all recruitment for level middle-professional and professional levels, and is also
carrying the recruitments at lower grades for key institutions. To improve performance and reduce
corruption, the 1973 Civil Service' Act was further amended to facilitate the retirement of staff that has 20
(as opposed to 25) years of service. For example, to June 2001, about 3,000 federal civil servants had
been dismissed and about 1,600 exonerated from charges of corruption or misconduct. Promotions panels
for higher grades are now chaired by the FPSC Chairman, and to ensure quality of higher grade staff,
acceptance to advanced training programs are now subject to entry examinations.
65.    The first phase of pay and pension reforms has been implemented. All federal civil services,
including military, have been provided the option of accessing a new pay scale in conjunction with
revisions in pension benefits. The revised pay-scales restore about 75 percent of the lost purchasing
power of wages (which had not been increased since 1994), decompresses the salary scale for every
grade, and subsumes all ad-hoc salary increases obtained by some services between 1994 and 2000. In
exchange for higher salaries, the civil servants agree to pensions reforms where: (a) commutation rates are
21



reduced from 50 to 40 percent; (b) commutations are calculated on the basis of reduced, more actuarially
fair, commutation factors (no discount factor was applied in calculating commutations); and (c) right to
full pension restoration after a certain age is foregone. The new system becomes operational in January
2002. This pay and pension reform is being complemented by a program to right size the federal work-
force which was approved by the Cabinet on June 2001. The program to eliminate a large number of
vacant posts (more than 20,000) and right-size the civil service mainly through attrition and the
elimination of redundant positions with staff to be placed in a surplus pool.
66.    Future Actions. Key benchmarks for the next two years include the continued implementation of
the systems for better performance evaluation and merit-based promotions and the implementation of
training reforms. The implementation of the rightsizing of the federal work-force to reduce the staff to
officer ratio to about 2.5:1 over the next two years, all in conjunction with the restructuring of the federal
government administration. Implementation of subsequent pay and pension reforms include the adoption
of a contributory pension system for new entrants, further reforms in the pay and pensions of current civil
servants to decompress salaries and increase transparency by monetizing allowances, and making the
pension system more affordable through actuarially fair commutation rates and actuarially fair pensions
for early retirement.
Devolution
67.   Issues and Strategy. Pakistan has had a highly centralized political and fiscal system. This
centralization is widely regarded as a major factor in Pakistan's poor recent record of economic growth,
poverty reduction, and social progress. The govemment strategy is to improve govemance in service
delivery through devolution using electoral competition as a way to weaken the systems of patronage that
have often dominated in the past. Pakistan is thus joining many other countries in pursuing a policy of
decentralization, and the Pakistani initiative is among the boldest yet launched in the breadth of reforms
and its fast-track timetable.
68.   Actions Taken. Devolution was launched on August 2001, through the promulgation of a
comprehensive Local Govemment Ordinance (LGO) in each of the four provinces. The LGO clearly
defines the roles of three different tiers of local government and spells out a fiscal framework including
taxing authority. For this fiscal year, Provincial Transition Committees have done the work of drawing
up the budgets for each of the 96 districts, but these have been revised by the elected govemments.
Drawing from the experience of other countries, the LGO sets up a system of financial controls based on
hard budget constraints, and extends to the local govemment level the same public financial management
and accountability systems that operate at the federal and provincial levels. The LGO also prescribes
additional systems of checks and balances to prevent elite capture of the local govemments. Local
service delivery is set to depend on the interplay between the District Councils and grass-root Citizen
Community Boards (CCBs). The law prescribes that 50 percent of total development expenditures out of
the district budget would be reserved for CCBs, based on an 80 percent matching grant of district to CCB
generated funds. On the political side, one third of the local govermnents' seats are reserved for women.
Indeed, the quota system also extends to peasants, workers, and religious minorities to bring to the
political system the views of socially disadvantaged groups that otherwise might have little chance of
participating in local decision-making.
69.    Future Actions. With more than 100,000 new councilors at the different levels of local
govemment, training programs for their new role are essential. With political decentralization launched,
the next and more time-intensive step is fiscal decentralization-the permanent establishment of a set of
budgetary practices whereby citizens, acting through their independently established local govemments,
are given the responsibility to make their own decisions for delivery of a set of public services, and the
authority to impose taxes and fees to finance those services. In designing a system of intergovemmental
fiscal relations, it will be important to secure transparency, to maintain hard local budget constraints, and
to give local governments the opportunity to raise additional resources. Effective devolution requires
22



local control on the spending siele of the budget. This is particularly important for the districts, given that
the provincially-adopted LGOs give the district governments primary responsibility for health and
education service delivery. On this matter, there is a potential bottleneck to reform: a civil service that is
beyond the control of the district, as civil servants are provincial employees ("paid" by the provinces out
of district budgets) and will remain so until at least July 2003. This creates a concern thal if the district
does not take over the civil service (create a district civil service cadre), the civil servants may not be
committed to effective district governance. Finally, for effective devolution, the districts need soon to do
their own budget preparation arid management, with appropriate mechanisms for provincial monitoring
starting with the upcoming fiscal! year 2003 budgets.
E. Pillar 3: Improving Humani Development
70.    The I-PRSP recognizes that arresting the crisis of human development is essential for future
sustainable growth and poverty r eduction. The priority is to improve the delivery system while gradually
increasing expenditures in basic education, primary health care, and family planning.
*  Education.   Learning from  the experience of the Social Action Program  (SAP), the
Government's priority is. to fix the social delivery system of its severe governance problems first,
and gradually address the funding issue through the impact of improvements in tax
administration, stronger economic growth and assistance from donors.
*  Health and Population. The govemment's strategy is formulated through the Health Policy
Reform seeks to address the critical bottlenecks in service delivery by focusing on strengthening
preventive health care, especially in the public health programs-immunization, communicable
diseases such as malaria, Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS; and matemal and child health and family
planning.
71.    As part of the preparation of the full PRSP scheduled for late 2002, the govemment will: (a)
improve the monitoring of expenditures by focusing on sub-sectors and programs that are clearly poverty
oriented and disaggregating infcrmation into salary and non-salary components; as well as align the
classification of categories of spending with provincial records and as things evolve down to district level
records; (b) finalize the set of intermediate indicators that will be tracked frequently on an annual basis,
and launch the implementation of the monitoring system with technical help from DFID and the World
Bank; (c) finalize the set of outcome indicators for poverty outcome monitoring that are consistent with
the millennium development goals but specifically relevant for Pakistan. This will entail getting closure
on various issues-adopting a national poverty line and selecting priority indicators for monitoring poverty
outcomes, including the data source which in Pakistan's context will be the integrated household survey;
and (d) carry out selected assessments of its pro-poor programs; currently envisaged to be the Khushal
Pakistan Program under the aegis of the Social Impact Assessment that is underway.
Improving the Coverage and Quality of Basic Education
72.   Issues and Strategy. The coverage and quality of primary education in Pakistan are dismal.
There are substantial rural-urban gaps, as well as gender gaps. Those who attend public school receive an
education of very poor quality, often leaving school functionally illiterate. Public education has suffered
from poor quality of leadership, rnassive political interference in human resource management and school
site selection, and low operating budgets that resulted in poorly maintained physical facilities and lack of
teaching materials. Were it not for the expansion of the private education system, the crisis of education
would be even deeper. In urban areas, about forty percent of children attend private schools. The
government has been developing a comprehensive strategy and action plan to address these issues. The
linchpin for change is the Federal Government's Education Sector Reforms Action Plan (ESR) but whose
implementation lies with the provincial and district governments. The ESR is a comprehensive sector-
wide program that seeks to increase access, enhance quality and equity at all levels of education. It
23



focuses on devolution/decentralization to improve governance, addresses quality and systemic issues such
as curricula reform, resource allocation and mobilization, teacher training, girls' education, national
education assessment, the setting and monitoring of national targets, expansion of literacy programs as
well as non-formal, and higher education programs. It also seeks to strengthen public-private partnerships
in service delivery. The systemic reforms pursued under the ESR are being complemented by efforts at
the provincial level (and eventually district level) to improve service delivery through specific measures
to curtail staff absenteeism, improve use of infrastructure facilities, and rationalize investments to reduce
waste.
73.     Actions Taken.     Federal
budget Allcations   fore. Feducatn              Box 2: Public Private Partnership - A Punjab Pilot Program
budget allocations for education
programs were almost doubled           Background   In early 2001, the govermnent of Punjab launched.,the. Community
this fiscal year using the fiscal      Participation Project (CPP). This program; which has since been, extended to the other
provinces, promotes the use of government .school buildings in the aflemoons and
space created by post-September        evenings by private sector operators, NGOs, 'commumues,. and, school councils. The
11h additional donor      support.     objectives of this program are to: (a) expand 'access to schooling by.maximizing use of
Additional resources are being         existing infrastructure;,.b) improve service quality'by working,with other'operatbrs; and
directed  to  the provinces    and     (c) ,oniplement the activities that can be afforded'- by the constraired government
exchequer. For, example, if- morning school is a primary school,. the afternoon, school
districts  in    the    form     of    would offer educatioial facilities'f6r,grade.6-8 (middle level). Provision of education for
performance-based     contracts in     girls is a pri6rity.
support of school rehabilitation,      Selectionof private operators of the 'aftrnoon school/evening cl'asses follow a competitive
expansion of the school feeding        process, Whereby the respective 'district:receives applicatipns iii. responseto announced
program  for girls to encourage  criteria, evaluates the applications and selects an operator The localeducation offices are
p   responsible for,monutoring,the; programandai'so for workig 'with the morning school
enrollment (following successful       head teacheui,,and.tnil to ensure coordination.between the mormng arid afternoon schools.
program     in   Sindh),   teacher     The private institutions"areyrequired to pay,allvthe'utility bills for both morning and
training, and to launch National       evening sch66o, and in adAtons, deposit I'0opercent`6fPthe bisiness'iincome into the
Education  Assessment,'to      account of the morning school. tie'level of.fees is'agreed between the local government
Education      Assessment,       to    and.the operator.
monitor education     quality  and    -Result  After one yearS tnere are,currently 4,680 afternoon institutions operating in
better  direct resources.      The     Purnjab, of which oer` 60 percent are for girIs. This repiesents about' '8percent of the
Cabinet has     approved   a  new      existing, numer ot go% ernment schools. 'Of this total, 2,970 are prunary/elementary
ordinance    for   the    National     schools with 70 percen fnor/l,irsg Theaf,ter,noonscho ols .....are,recognizedby'the respective
Education Foudation, whichexamination boards ;for'puposes'of the pupils~sitting,examination&s Itis too' soon (to judge
Education      Foundation,  which    '    'htn                                                    ln-onetk
the~ effective'ness of te aftinodn:is~hoofs, Jbut-,thd,Punj'ab Govemnmeni plans'to undertake
gives the NEF greater autonomy        'an ivaiiiation in due courseP'As'other provinces, are followng ,Punjab's'example, they too
and   increases   its  sphere    of    will monmtor anci evaluate the expeiiment.; In time, a regulatoryiframework should evolve.
activities  vis-a-vis   the   non-     This is Just one exampleWof'alnumber of,public-priyate,partnerships that are growing in
governmental       sector.      An     Paldstaii's,education sector: Withi'limkd supply of government'school places and unmet
enhanced    package   of benefits      dschooling, more and' more-p ovate,perators are entering the "education
,market'. 'Not o,'nlarethese 'private opera,tors able to.put-to good"us'e gbvermment
and   incentives  has   also  been     infrastructure. they can' also complement governmentefforts and-diversify the supply for
approved    in   support   of   the    education to meet local needs.
growing private education sector.
74.     To improve service delivery all provincial governments have continued to take measures to
improve governance, inadequate access, poor quality, and insufficient spending especially on non-salary
recurrent budgets. Measures include: upgraded entry qualifications for teachers; merit-based recruitment;
improved deployment through appointments made on the basis of school-based contracts; strengthen
teacher training programs; introduction of teacher code of ethics on a pilot basis, and regular field
monitoring of schools to reduce teacher absenteeism. To improve facilities, a start has been made on a
huge backlog of delayed maintenance and the program of new capital investments has been rationalized.
Education departments have undertaken inventories of unused schools and are working on options for
their utilization, inter alia through pilot "contracting out" arrangements. Provincial Govermments have
increased education budgets and are committed to protecting non-salary budgets. To address quality
issues, examination Boards are being strengthened, private examination boards are being encouraged, the
first being set up through the Agha Khan University.
24



75.      Future Actions.     On public expenditures, key benchmarks include increasing the federal and
provincial education budgets in fiscal year 2003 and beyond. Since improving governance through
devolution is critical, important benchmarks will be the constitution of Education Monitoring Committees
at the village (Union) level, andl the participation of Citizen Community Boards in the preparation of the
local governments' expenditure        programs.     Key   implementation    benchmarks that are the federal
government's responsibility within the ESR are the launching of the National Assessment through project
approval with a view to having assessments carried out in 2004; the establishment of adequate monitoring
systems of education outcomes based on improving the existing Education Information and Management
Systems, supplemented by annual surveys (preferably carried out by non-government institutions); the
preparation and implementation of broader private/public partnership strategies; and strengthening
literacy and non-formal education programs especially for out-of-school youth.
Improving the Quality and Coverage of Health
76.      Issues and Strategy.     'Pakistan achieved modest progress in improving its health and fertility
indicators. Infant mortality of 83 per 1,000 live births in 1998-99 compares favorably with 127 per 1,000
live births in 1991, but lags countries with similar levels of income per capita. While contraception
awareness and usage has increetsed, contraceptive use still remains low at 20 percent. The coverage of
immunization is only about 56 percent. The sector has suffered from very low budgets (about 0.5 percent
of GDP) and weak institutional capacity, especially at the provincial level. Progress has been strongest in
the implementation of national programs with funding from the federal government and implemented
with the provinces. The government's strategy is rightly focused on prevention and control programs,
especially in the area of reproductive health, child health, nutrient deficiencies, and communicable and
infectious diseases. It also inicludes the reorganization of district health offices in the context of
devolution.
Box 3: The Lady. IHealth Worker Program: Documented.Sutccess - Impressive Potential
The Lady Health Worker (LHW) program was started in 1994; and financed almost entirely from Government sources. The program
hires and train village women to provi(le basic primary health care and family planning services in their own communities. LHWs
are recruited according to clear criteria (e.g., 20 years of age and an 8'h grade education), and given 3 months of full-time training
and 12 months of in-service training. Each LHW receives about US$12 per month and is responsible for a population of about
1,000. There are now about 60,000 LHWs, across the country, including roughly 13,000 village-based family welfare workers,
originally recruited by the Ministry of l'opulation & Welfare, and have now beeni incorporated into.the LHW program. A recent and
rigorous evaluation of the LHW program, based on household surveys, indicates that the program has had a significant impact.
Results show that those villages with LHWs have better access to basic services. The only exception is in the area of child
immunization, where LHWs have not b.en responsible for delivering the service.
Evaluation of the LHW Program
Indicators                         LHW Areas (%)        Control Areas
Number of mothers who had a: least one tetanus toxoid injection  51                30
during last pregnancy
Number of births attended by trained health worker              21                  15
Number of women 15-49 using contraception (CPR)                 32                 23
Number of children under 3 years never weighed by a health worker  33               9
Number of children with diarrhea given more liquids to dnnk     32                  15
Number of children 12-35 months fully immunifed,                47                  45
Reasonsfor Success: The LHW progrn bas benefited from a focused and consistent strategic vision and capable leadership. It has
given great emphasis to supervision by estabtishing a committed cadre of'supervisors with access to vehicles and a standard
approach to supporting the LHWs they are responsible for.
Challenges: While the LHW program tas achieved impressive, results in comparison to control areas, there is still.much room for
improving the quality and quantity of se:rvices Lack of contraceptive supplies,;dealad payment of LHWs, and'use of supervisory
vehicles by other health staff. has interfered with program activities.
Opportunities: The potential of the LHIW program is impressive. While covering about 60 percent of the population, the program
can obviously expand its geographic coverage. On average, LHWs are working about 17'hours per week, compared to the 25 hours
the LHW program has set as a standard Hence, there is an opportunity to expand the scope of the services LHWs provide to include:
(i) additional work on nutrition; (ii) providing injectable contraceptives and immumzations; (iii) carrying out health education
around HIV/AIDS; and (iv) supervismg, the treatrnent of tuberculosis patients as part of the DOTS approach.
25



77.   Actions Taken. The budget for health and population has been increased to 0.7 percent of GDP.
These additional resources are mostly to support the expansion of a well-formulated program focused on
maternal and child health, and family planning. The community-based Lady Health Workers continues to
be strengthened at a fast pace. Similar activities that were carried out under the Ministry of Population
have been merged at the MoH to increase effectiveness. This fiscal year is being expanded to increase the
number of LHW by 14,000 to a total of 68,000. Recruitment is focused on increasing coverage in rural
areas to expand the programs' coverage to about two thirds of the target population (about 66 million
women and children). A medium term program to improve immunization coverage by about 5 percent
per year, have been prepared and external and domestic funding has been secured. Third party surveys
have been conducted to establish a baseline of existing coverage. A more ambitious program for
HIV/AIDS prevention is being launched under strong leadership and with Bank support.
78.    Future Actions. Important benchmarks include: expansion of the LHW program by about 10,000
per year to reach a target of 90,000 workers. Accelerated implementation of the child immunization
program supported by the Global Alliance fro Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) to increase
immunization coverage by at least 5 percent per year; and implementation of the expanded HIV/AIDS
program. To achieve these objectives a shift to a more results-oriented paradigm is needed. These targets
need to be underpinned with a reliable and credible database. Development of reliable information at the
national, provincial, and district level, is essential to facilitate planning, monitoring and evaluation, and to
orient increases in budget resources. A challenge is to increase the budgets for health expenditures
significantly. There are severe capacity constraints at the provincial and local government that need to be
addressed if expenditures are to increase significantly. Future expenditure reviews will assess the
potential to accelerate the key public programs; but ultimately, broader sector reforms will need to be
implemented at the provincial and local government level.
F. Pillar 4: Improving Income Generating Opportunities and Social Protection
79.    The I-PRSP seeks to reduce the vulnerability of the poor by expanding targeted income transfer
programs and providing better access to assets through improved access to credit, housing, and
distribution of government-owned land.
* Targeted transfers. The government envisions protecting the most vulnerable members of
society through the strengthening of the Zakat Islamic charity system and the continued
strengthening of the Food Support Program launched in year 2000.
*  Employment and self-employment opportunities.  The support to employment and self-
employment opportunities comes from improvements in access to credit through, redistribution of
public lands to the poor, and the launching of large community infrastructure programs
implemented at the local government level.
80.   Issues and Strategy. Pakistan has had only feeble programs for social protection and targeted
poverty interventions. Social protection strategies must explicitly address the issue of risk management,
primarily through a variety of instruments that play the role of safety nets. Pakistan lacks not only the
resources, but also the institutions necessary to provide formal safety nets, like unemployment benefits,
insurance and social security to the large sections of the population that need them. Improving the
institutional capacity would thus be imperative. However, given the time necessary for such change, the
strategy for the immediate future is adequately focused on improving existing programs-some launched
during the first year of this government-such as the public Zakat system, micro-finance initiatives, and
small public works through the Pakistan Kushal program launched in April of 2000.
81.   Actions Taken. The government has shown a strong commitment to allocate resources for social
protection and poverty reduction and to strengthen the quality of the programs. The principal formal
safety net program in Pakistan takes the form of cash transfers to the poor through the publicly
26



administered Zakat system. The government is addressing long-standing issues of inefficient targeting
that range from problems in identifying eligible beneficiaries to the status of beneficiaries not being kept
up-to-date. Responding to some of these problems the government has recently engaged in reorganizing
the system by strengthening the institutions for implementation and monitoring of the program, raising
the amount of grants, and seeking to add 1.5 million beneficiaries. The revitalized Zakat system will
provide funds to beneficiaries not only to fulfill basic needs but also to permanently rehabilitate them,
through assistance in developing nieans of livelihood.
82.    The Khushal Pakistan Program is being strengthened with additional resources and active
community participation. Funds are allocated to the districts through provincial governments; the
schemes under the program are identified and selected at the district level through active community
consultations, and in many areas ihe projects are implemented in partnership with the communities. As
district governments start functioning under the devolution program, the government expects Khushal
Pakistan to gain further importance and local ownership. The increased demand for micro finance has
brought forth the need for ensuring the supply of sufficient funds for such initiatives on a sustainable and
institutionalized basis. To channel funds, two major on-lending institutions - the Poverty Alleviation
Fund and the Khushali Bank - have been set up with donor assistance, distanced from the government
bureaucracy through the involvement of the NGOs and the private sector operating with the cooperation
of nationalized banks and local organizations.
83.    Future Actions. Government focus in the coming year will be on developing the institutional
capacity to assess the impact of its poverty reduction strategy, improve targeting of existing programs,
and identify gaps in its strategy. The challenge for Khushali Bank will be to avoid the pitfalls that have in
the past led to failures in rural credit programs, while conducting operations on a scale much larger than
attempted by most NGO efforts. Existing rural support programs are heavily concentrated in the North
Eastern areas, and have insignificant presence in Sindh and Balochistan. Expanding the scale and
coverage of such programs remains a major challenge. The long-term sustainability of the micro-finance
programs and ability to scale up existing programs require stronger links with the rest of the financial
sector. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has envisaged licensing of categories of micro-credit
institutions at national, provincial and district levels, as public or private limited companies, which will
enable them to raise capital in financial markets. Partnerships between micro-finance institutions and
commercial banks, which are starting to take place, may offer new opportunities. Integrated public
policies will be needed to support such efforts by providing technical and financial support in the start-up
phase, perhaps through the Pakistmn Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) and the micro-credit bank, and by
creating an enabling legal and regulatory framework for such institutions.
G. Achieving Social Objectives: Resources, Monitoring, and Evaluation
84.   Issues and Strategy. Pakistan's main challenge is to close the social gap. In the past, even when
growth led to strong poverty reduction, concomitant improvements in social sector indicators did not
follow. Too few public resources have been devoted to provide better access to health, education, family
planning, and other pro-poor services. Moreover, resources have often been managed poorly. Improving
social outcomes in Pakistan is therefore as much an issue of increasing resources, as that of appropriately
targeting and improving the effectiveness of spending through better governance. The strategy for
improving human development is built on these principles. These efforts need to be complemented by a
system of monitoring and evaluating outcomes at the federal, provincial, and district level. Development
of such systems is one of the main objectives to be reached in the transition to the full PRSP.
85.   Actions Taken. This year's budget foresaw an increase in I-PRSP pro-poor expenditures with
respect to fiscal year 2001 from 3.4 to almost 4 percent of GDP. Since November, taking advantage of
the availability of additional grants financing, I-PRSP budgeted expenditures have been further increased
by another 0.4 percent of GDP to 4.4 percent. Had it not been for the impact of the Afghanistan War and
the escalation of the conflict with India, this would have been the first time in the country's recent history
27



that budgeted pro-poor expenditures would have been the same as the defense budget. Most of the new
increase in resources is going to support programs for school rehabilitation, girls education, expansion of
child and maternal health care through the Lady Health Workers Program; and to support rural
development through community-based infrastructure projects (Pakistan Kushali Program).
86.   On monitoring and evaluation, tracking of pro-poor expenditures has already commenced. The
government has developed a comprehensive expenditure-tracking monitoring system. Human
development and pro-poor expenditures have been carefully and clearly defined and the government has
established a system by which these expenditures are monitored on quarterly basis. Non-reconciled data
is available with about a six-week lag after a quarter's end and immediately made public through the
Ministry of Finance web-site (See Table 4 in Annex D). Reconciled provisional data is available with
about a three-month lag after a quarters' end and with a higher level of detail, which includes salary and
non-salary components of current expenditures.
87.   Efforts are underway to further improve expenditure tracking and analysis of PRSP expenditure
by: (i) analyzing quarterly expenditures vis-a-vis budget allocations, as well as last year's expenditures;
(ii) monitoring salary and non-salary expenditures in key sectors; and (iii) making quarterly reports more
meaningful by providing rationale for deviations in sectoral expenditures from their normal trends. The
latter is the responsibility of the provincial governments as most I-PRSP expenditures are incurred at the
provincial and local govemment level. Starting on fiscal year 2002/03 all provinces will be preparing
more comprehensive and detailed quarterly analysis of I-PRSP expenditure patterns at the provincial, and
local govermnent level. These activities will also be supported by proposed adjustment lending at the
sub-national level in Sindh and NWFP, with other provinces expected to follow.
88.   A preliminary set of indicators-both intermediate and final has also been identified to track
progress on poverty (see Table 3 in Annex D). Furthermore, intermediate indicators that can be tracked
on a short-term basis have been developed to link public expenditures more closely to results. After a
long period of consultations, a methodology to determine the poverty line has been agreed on to help
track progress in poverty reduction.
89.    Future Actions. To facilitate the increase in pro-poor expenditures, the govemment, with Bank
assistance, will conduct annual revisions of its expenditure program. The Bank and the govemment will
undertake a comprehensive Public Expenditure Review to provide technical support to the public
expenditure management and monitoring exercise. At the federal level, special attention will be given to
the composition of the public investment program where a large proportion of the fiscal space created in
the next three years is expected to go.
90.    As part of the preparation of the full PRSP the govermnent will: (a) expand the analyses of and
monitoring of I-PRSP expenditures to include comparisons vis-a-vis budget allocations, as well as last
year's expenditures, monitor salary and non-salary expenditures in key sectors; and make quarterly
reports more meaningful by providing rationale for deviations in sector expenditures from their normal
trends and base that analyses on reconciled expenditure data; (b) carry out regular updates of trends in
poverty; (c) finalize the selection of priority indicators for monitoring poverty outcomes and related
intermediate targets. This entails setting baselines and targets, employing a consistent definition and an
identified data source, and involving the provinces and local govemments where most of the service
delivery takes place and the information resides; and (d) build technical capacity, particularly in the
provinces and districts-an important aspect in implementing effective monitoring.
28



IV. BANK'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Country Assistance Strategy
91.   Strategic Engagement P"inciples. A joint Bank-IFC full CAS is being presented to the Board in
conjunction with this Credit. The Bank Group's support is guided by the following three strategic
engagement principles: (a) Strong "client pull" to reform and selectivity;, (b) partnerships and outreach;
and (c) a programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge first, and resources second in a
flexible pursuit of key development outcomes. Based on these principles, a variety of instruments are
being used to support the implementation of the government's I-PRSP. These include: (i) a strong
program of analytical work and other non-lending services to support the transfer and knowledge aimed at
helping the government to design and implement key policy reforms, (ii) policy-based fast disbursing
lending to pursue the governance and sector reform agenda at both the federal and provincial level; (iii)
programmatic sector and investrrtent lending to support the implementation of the reforms to improve the
economic and social infrastruclure and delivery systems for education and health, and community
infrastructure services (including water management) at all levels of governments.
92.    Non-Lending Services. A key instrument to implement the Bank's strategy and knowledge
transfer is the use of a range of non-lending services. The focus is to build the knowledge base to help the
government articulate its reform strategies and use this knowledge in the design of adjustment operations.
Recent reports include: Pakistan Country Procurement Assessment, (June 2000); Pakistan Reforming
Provincial Finances in the Context of Devolution, (November 2000); Pakistan Reforming Punjab's Public
Finance and Institutions (August 2001); Pakistan Country Financial Accountability Assessment Part One
(September 2001). A joint Bank-IMF technical report on Tax Policy and Tax Administration Reforms
was also completed in August 2001. More recently, a Development Policy Review was completed in
March 2002 and a detailed Poverty Assessment is underway and will be completed in June 2002. Other
ongoing work include: a broad-based Public Expenditure Review, the second phase of the Financial
Accountability Assessment, a Financial Sector Policy Assessment, and a Review of the Business Climate
based on firm surveys.
93.    Lending Services. Moving forward with reforms will also require assurance of a reasonable
degree of flexible form of financial support over the medium-term. Hence, the CAS advocates the use of
a series of one tranche adjustment credits to the federal and provincial govemments that will provide a
predictable and performance-based budgetary support while undertaking the politically difficult reforms.
The approach will also help the Bank manage risks by pacing its assistance with the future government's
ability to pursue reforms and to give assurance of "just in time" support.
B. Partnerships and Donor Coordination
94.    Donor Coordination in Pakistan is based on the CDF principles. The Govemment takes the lead
in ensuring this coordination. With the formulation of the I-PRSP, the framework for this coordination is
now better defined. The World Bank plays an important role in supporting this aid coordination by co-
chairing development forums as well as through leadership to the dialogue of the local donor group.
Implementation of the Bank's oNvn work is based on strong partnerships with a number of core members
of the donor community, especially the IMF and the AsDB.
95.    Coordination with IMF?. Bank and IMF staff have worked closely together providing advice
and technical support to governlment in the design and implementation of the I-PRSP program. In
December 2001 the Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP was discussed at the Boards of the IMF and the
Bank. The IMF has focused rnainly on policies to achieve short and medium-term macroeconomic
stability and on structural reforms that have a direct bearing on macroeconomic stability. These include
fiscal reforms, trade liberalization-, and financial sector reforms closely linked to public debt management.
The Bank has complemented the Fund's work through our support to structural reforms in the social
29



sectors and support of the growth agenda through deregulation of key sectors such as power, oil, and gas,
and banking reforms whose performance have a strong bearing on growth and public finances. The Bank
and the IMF have also worked closely with government on public financial accountability issues, with the
Bank taking the lead.
96.    Cooperation with AsDB. The staff of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are
systematically sharing information and finding collaborative ways to reinforce each other's programs in
key areas. In the case of financial sector reforms, while the Bank focuses its support in the banking
sector, the AsDB has focused on assisting the development of capital markets and micro-finance.
Coordination in the power sector is close, with the AsDB leading the support for KESC reforms, while
the Bank supports WAPDA's reform. Both the Bank and the AsDB are working in coordination to
support the National Reconstruction Bureau. The AsDB is building a strong program in governance
focusing on legal and judicial reforms, corporate governance issues, and supporting the new local
governments, while the Bank's focus is on public financial accountability.
97.    Cooperation with Other Donors. Cooperation among donors in Pakistan is especially close in
the areas of governance and human development. On the governance front, there is also very close
collaboration with DFID who is working with both the Bank and the AsDB in support of devolution and
provincial reforms. DFID's governance activities include support to the main anti-corruption agency, the
National Accountability Bureau. In the area of human development, the donors continue to collaborate
through the Social Action Program. There is also close cooperation between the Bank and the United
States in education and for the support of pro-poor community infrastructure programs such as Kushal.
Finally, donors are actively helping the government develop monitoring and evaluation capacity for the
PRSP. Here again, collaboration between the Bank, DFID, UTNDP, and UNICEF is very close.
V. THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Performance Under SAC1
98.    The proposed SAC2 is the Bank's main vehicle to support the implementation of the I-PRSP in
this fiscal year. Following a programmatic approach to adjustment lending, the SAC2 is built around the
government's medium-term reform agenda, parts of which were supported by SAC1 and which is now
also supported by proposed adjustment lending at the provincial level with a focus on governance reforms
and service delivery. As argued in Section II, implementation of SAC 1 has been fully satisfactory in all
areas. The government has deepened its engagements through follow-up measures and institutional
strengthening. The implementation record of SACI is summarized in the Policy Matrix of Annex B. In
the context of SAC I, the follow-up actions to underpin SAC2 were also identified. Below, we review the
progress with implementation of these actions.
B. Prior Actions Under the Second Structural Adjustment Credit
99.    As explained below, several key policy reforms identified as triggers for SAC2 have already been
implemented. Several others are in different stages of implementation. Completion of all prior actions
will be a condition for Board presentation. These prior actions are conveniently summarized around the
themes of the government's I-PRSP.
Engendering Growth
* (a) Actions have been taken by CBR to increase the transparency and speed of refunds of GST
and duty drawbacks to exporters; and (b) such refunds in the first 9 months of FY 2001/02 have
registered an increase of about 45% over such refunds in the corresponding period of fiscal year
2000/01.
30



*  (a) A new Gas Pricing Fiamework for PPL gas has been established, which will bring the PPL
well-head price up to, and maintain it at a level equal to fifty percent (50%) of the well-head price
fixed from time to time for the Zone m gas fields as defined in the Borrower's Petroleum
Exploration & Production Policy dated May 1, 2001, through successive semi-annual adjustments
over a period of five (5) years; and (b) the first adjustment of PPL gas prices under such
Framework has taken place and is reflected in consumer prices.
*  A formula has been adopted by the Borrower under which retail and ex-refinery prices of all
petroleum products are based upon international prices and adjusted automatically on a
fortnightly basis; and (b) since July 1 2001, except for the period of March 15 to May 15 2002, all
scheduled price adjustmerits under such formula have taken place.
* With a view to completing the corporatization of WAPDA's power wing: (a) the transfer of staff
in Basic Pay Scales (BPSpI 1-16 from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC, and the l)ISCOs, has
been completed; (b) valid operating licenses have been issued by NEPRA to the DISCOs; and (c)
the principles of Supplementary Business Transfer Agreements, providing for the transfer of
assets and liabilities, other rights and obligations from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC and
the DISCOs, respectively, have been approved by the Borrower.
*  (a) A financial improverrment plan has been agreed between the Borrower and WAPDA, setting
out the measures needed for WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC and the DISCOs to become
financially viable, including tariff and non-tariff adjustments, which will enable WAPDA, the
GENCOs, NTDC and the DISCOs to achieve, under a reasonable forecast of revenues and
expenditures, an overall debt/service coverage ratio of 1.2 by the end of FY 2002/03; and (b)
pursuant to such plan, a tariff increase of Rs. 0.045 per kilowatt hour on account of the fuel
adjustment cost determined by NEPRA as at end of March 2002, together with an interim
structural tariff increase of Rs. 0.08 per kilowatt hour has been introduced effective May 15,
2002.
* Price and profiteering and hoarding controls on all but two of the sixty-six essential products
specified in the Schedule to the Borrower's Price Control and Prevention of Profiteering and
Hoarding Act, 1977 (Act No. XXIX of 1977) have been removed.
Improving Governance
* A medium-term reform strategy and action plan for CBR has been approved by the Borrower,
providing for a modem, progressive, effective and credible organization for optimizing revenue
by providing quality service and promoting compliance with tax laws.
* The first phase of the Borrower's pay and pension reform scheme for civilian and military
personnel has been impleimented through: (a) the revision of pay scales; and (b) the
rationalization of pension benefits.
*  The Borrower's Procurement Regulatory Authority Ordinance, 2002 (Ordinance No XXII of
2002) has been issued, with a view to regulating the procurement of goods, services and works by
the public sector.
* The provincial ad hoc Public Accounts Committees have opened up their proceedings to the press
on the lines of the federal ad hoc Public Accounts Committee.
31



Improving Human Development and Social Protection
* The FY 2001/2002 budget allocations of the Borrower's federal, provincial, and local
governments for human development and pro-poor expenditures under the I-PRSP have been
increased, in the aggregate, to one hundred sixty-four billion rupees (Rs. 164 billion) or four and
four-tenths of one percent (4.4%) of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
* A National PRSP Implementation Committee has been established in the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance (MOF) to oversee the implementation of the Borrower's anti-poverty strategy as
reflected in the I-PRSP and to help build consensus in support of the full PRSP under preparation,
together with a PRSP Secretariat to coordinate the actions directed by the National PRSP
Implementation Committee, and as part of this process: (a) a national poverty line and
methodology have been established; and (b) intermediate health and education outcome
indicators have been formulated and are being evaluated, with a view to preparing an action plan
not later than September 2002 to improve the monitoring tools established therefor.
* Pursuant to the Borrower's Education Sector Reform Program: (a) additional budgetary resources
for education have been directed at the federal, provincial, and local government levels; (b) a
National Education Assessment Initiative has been launched; and (c) school rehabilitation,
teacher training and girls schooling and feeding programs at the federal, provincial, and local
government level have been expanded.
*  Pursuant to the Borrower's National Health Policy: (a) an Expanded Immunization Program for
children has been launched by the Borrower; (b) the Borrower's Lady Health Workers Program
has been strengthened through the appointment of an additional 10,000 Lady Health Workers; (c)
the Borrower's Tuberculosis Control Program has been expanded; and (d) a national strategic
HIV/AIDS prevention program has been formulated by the Borrower for imminent launching.
C. Indicative Prior Actions for Follow-up Adjustment Operation
100.  As in the case of SAC 1, the current operation follows a programmnatic approach under which the
government and the Bank have agreed on the most important triggers for future adjustment lending.
These policy measures are summarized below. In addition, any future adjustment lending would also be
contingent on the satisfactory implementation of the macroeconomic framework agreed under the PRGF,
and the sustained implementation of the reforms supported by SAC I and SAC II.
Engendering Growth
* The government will have brought to the point of sale the Pakistan Telecommunications
Company Limited, United Bank Limited, Karachi Electricity Supply Company, Pakistan State
Oil, Oil and Gas Development Corporation; and Faisalabad Electricity Supply Company.
* The Ministerial Committee on Deregulation will have accelerated the implementation of its
program by: (a) amending labor laws to encourage employment while protecting worker's rights;
(b) implementing a program to eliminate administrative barriers; and (c) working in conjunction
with CBR carried out a comprehensive review of the SRO system and started implementation of
an action plan to eliminate unnecessary ones, monitor lapsing of time-bound SROs, and define
clear criteria for maintaining needed SROs.
* The government will have maintained full adherence to its financial improvement plan for
WAPDA and its corporate successors. This would lead to achievement of the financial targets of
a debt service coverage ratio of 1.2 at the end of fiscal year 2002/03, and 1.5 at end of fiscal year
32



2003/04. As a result, WAPDA would not have financing claims on the budget; all the while the
power sector financing needs would also be fully consistent with the agreed macroeconomic
framework.
* The unbundling of WAPDA's power wing will have been fully completed by end December
2002. The new corporatized entities would be functioning in an autonomous manner under
professional management.
* As a part of the program to develop a sound gas pricing framework: (a) the government will have
rationalized access to the lifeline rate for domestic consumers to improve its targeting to the poor;
and (b) the Cabinet will have approved a mechanism to include all feedstock gas subsidies to the
fertilizer industry in the budget. Implementation to start with the budget for fiscal year 2003/04.
* To enhance competition and efficiency in the oil sector the government will have: (a) set the ex-
refinery prices of all petroleum products on the basis of import (or export) parity prices as
ceilings; and (b) the government will have reviewed and initiated reforms, as needed, of a
program to phase out the system of guaranteed economic returns to the refineries.
Improving Governance
*  CBR will have completed its human resource audit, and based on its recommendations
implemented human resource reforms. It will have established new recruitment, performance
assessment, training, and promotion procedures, or programs. A new performance-based pay
scale will have been approved by government. The rightsizing of personnel will have started.
*  CBR will have establis:hed outcome indicators and targets, as well as a program to measure
progress. This information will be shared with the public on a regular basis.
* The Pakistan Procurement Regulatory Authority will have completed the revision and amended,
as needed, all rules, regulations, and administrative orders pertaining to procurement at the
federal level. A new Procurement Law will have been submitted to Parliament.
*  The govemment will have reached its targets on improved financial management in the areas of
reconciliation of expenditures and revenues, reduction of federal unidentified expenditures, and
timeliness of Audits and PAC reviews.
* The government will have continued with the implementation of its program of civil service
reforms by: (a) continued implementation of the Cabinet-approved program to right-size and
improve the skill-mix of the federal civil service; (b) carrying out the second phase of pay and
pension reforms. As part of this program, the Cabinet will have approved the establishment of a
contributory pension fund for new entrants; and the monetization of a number of allowances into
salaries.
Improving Human Development and Social Protection
*  The federal and provinc]ial govemments will have established a clear fiscal framework to finance
the district govemments and ensure the regular flow of funds.
*  In the area of monitoring and evaluation of the PRSP the govemment will have: (a) completed the
action plan and initiated implementation of the program to improve the monitoring of its health
and education intermediate outcome indicators; and (b) improved the quarterly analyses of
performance in I-PRSP expenditures in conjunction with the provincial govemments.
33



D. External Financing Requirements and Proposed Credit Amount Under SAC II
101.  The details of Pakistan's current macroeconomic situation and the medium-term outlook are
contained in Annex C. As explained in this annex, Pakistan is saddled with a large external debt and high
extemal debt service payments, which cannot be met without exceptional financing from the IFIs and debt
rescheduling from the Paris Club. The stock of external debt is about US$35 billion. Servicing this debt
is particularly difficult on account of Pakistan's low exports and tax revenues. The current ratio of the net
present value of the public and publicly guaranteed debt in relation to exports is about 230 percent.
External financing requirements for this fiscal year are sizable at about US$4 billion, notwithstanding the
positive impact on the current account from grants whose purpose is to ameliorate the significant costs of
the conflict on Pakistan's economy. This financing does allow, however, for some front-loading in the
targeted accumulation of reserves during the three year macroeconomic framework.  Given the
importance of restoring the confidence of the private sector in the economy to revive growth, the increase
of reserves to about 12 weeks of imports is a sensible goal.
102.   Over the next two years and for the duration of the PRGF period, the exceptional financing
requirements will also continue to be high. Current projections, which for now assume that no additional
grant financing from the United States beyond what was committed in this fiscal year, put this
requirements at about US$3.7 billion per year which is probably an upper limit. Yet even if additional
grant financing is obtained, the most likely scenario is that balance of payments support from multilaterals
during fiscal years 2002/03 and 2003/04 will be about US$1.3 billion per year (see Table 3 in Annex C).
103.   Given this extemal financing need, the Government has requested the Bank for a quick-
disbursing financial assistance of US$600 million for 2001/02. The proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit and the Sindh (sub-national) Adjustment Credit are the two main instruments for
providing this assistance during this fiscal year. Along with the banking sector restructuring investment
credit of US$300 million already approved in October 2001, this would bring the total level of our
assistance to Palistan to about US$900 million for 2001/02. This higher level of assistance is consistent
with the CAS scenario of policy performance at the high-end of the base case. Given the implementation
record of the past two years, including the acceleration of reforms over the last nine months in the context
of the I-PRSP, we believe this level of financial assistance is justified.
E. Implementation and Monitoring
104.  The Bank's main counterpart in the preparation of the Credit has been the Ministry of Finance,
who is also responsible for the coordination in implementation of the I-PRSP. Policy measures will have
been implemented before presentation to the Board so there are no outstanding implementation issues.
Program monitoring will be carried out on two fronts. The Bank is committed to a long term engagement
in all the areas supported by the Credit and will continue to monitor progress in implementation of the
longer term benchmarks spelled out in this program and guard against backtracking in the policies we
have supported. A second area of engagement will be the monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes in
human development and poverty reduction from the implementation of the PRSP. The development and
implementation of this program is an integral part of the actions supported by this Credit and of the
Bank's ongoing policy dialogue and technical support to the government.
105.   Social Impact Analyses. As a part of the preparation of this Credit, and of the PRGF program,
the Bank and the IMF have agreed to review closely the social impact of reforms in a pilot program of
collaboration. Work is being lead by the Bank's Social Development Unit. Two areas of reform will
receive close scrutiny during implementation: (a) devolution and its impact on the quality of service
delivery especially to the poor, and (b) tariff policy reforms in the gas and power sectors. This work will
be conducted throughout calendar year 2002. Devolution has just started and we expect that by the end of
2002 enough time will have transpired to make an initial qualitative assessment. On the energy-pricing
34



front, the household data for 1999/00 will be available later this year and will be used as a baseline to
analyze the impact of reforms.
106.   We have conducted nevertheless a preliminary analysis of the impact of natural gas and
electricity tariffs on consumers Nvith available survey data for 1998/99. The maintenance of lifeline rates
for the consumers shielded them from the direct impact of price increases. In fact, one of our findings is
that lifelines rates are too generous and poorly targeted, and therefore their application merits a revision.
The majority of the poor do not have access to natural gas. Only about 15 percent of the poor (1.5 percent
of the rural poor and 44 percent of the urban poor) have access to it. Those with access benefit from
natural gas prices that are equivalent to about 20 percent of the alternative fuel costs that the majority of
the rural poor consume -such as kerosene. In power, about 55 percent of the poor (38 percent of rural
poor; and 91 percent of urban poor) have access to electricity. In this case the lifeline tariff is slightly
better targeted, with the rural poor consuming up to the maximum eligible for the lifeline rate while the
urban poor consuming marginally more than the lifeline ceiling of 100Kw. However, all these consumers
benefit from a heavy subsidy as well, as they are subject to a tariff of about US$3.5 cents/Kw which is
several times below the marginal cost of production and distribution. At the same time, higher-end
domestic, industrial, and commercial consumers pay about US$10 cents/Kw.
Figure 5                                          Figure 6
Electricity Tariffs                            Natural Gas Tariffs
6 75                     * 5 5               m    5200 -
3 75
475  g         S                                 150
3 575E
273  S j t j $ t S @ @ 3 8 S                       ,     >     > 100-
__      ___7_            __    _                50-   _     _   _   _   _   _   _
0-
-   Residential nominal lifelin, rate <100 units    Dorrestic nominal lifeline rate up to 100 rnct
_     Residential real lifeline rat,i <100 units  -   Dorestic real lifeline rate up to 100 rncfl
6-Industrial nominal rate                      -     Commreial nominal
F. Credit Administration and Fiduciary Compliance
107.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. A single
tranche Credit of about SDR 395.2 million (US$500 million equivalent) would be made available upon
credit effectiveness, anticipated for June 2002. The closing date of the Credit is December 31, 2002.
108.   Disbursement, Procurement, and Financial Management. The Credit will follow the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. The Government will open and maintain a
Deposit Account with the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) into which the proceeds of the Credit will be
disbursed. Disbursement will riot be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements
will be needed. Disbursements from the Deposit Account will follow normal Government policies and
procedures. The proceeds will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under Schedule I of the
Development Credit Agreement. If any portion of the Credit is used for ineligible purposes as defined by
the Development Credit Agreernent, IDA will require the government either to return that amount to the
Deposit Account for use for eligible expenditures or to refund the amount to IDA. The SBP, on behalf of
the Government, will maintain an appropriate accounting system in accordance with generally acceptable
accounting principles. It will provide the required information on the receipt and use of the Credit funds
and will prepare annual financial statements, up to and including the fiscal year in which the balance in
the Deposit Account is zero, in a format agreed at negotiations.
35



109.  Accounts and Audit. The IMF conducted a Stage One Safeguard Assessment in late 2000 where
it concluded that high risks existed in the areas of external audits, and financial reporting and internal
controls, and recommended a follow-up Stage Two Assessment. The second assessment was completed
in February 2001 providing several recommendations that were incorporated in the Stand-By program
and in the current PRGF program. All the recommended remedial actions arising from the first
assessment have been implemented and no new critical vulnerabilities have since been identified. An
important mitigating factor for fiduciary risks is the govemment's commitment and demonstrated
progress in the implementation of its ambitious agenda of public financial management reforms. This
agenda has been built on the basis of very solid economic and sector work carried out both by the Bank
and the IMvF, and its implementation is being supported by technical assistance programs from the Bank
and the AsDB. The financial statements of the Deposit Account will, upon request from the Association,
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference in accordance with
acceptable international standards of auditing. The first audited financial statements will be submitted to
IDA within four months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2002.
110.  Environmental Aspects. The policy measures supported by the Credit are not expected to have a
direct negative impact on the enviromnent. On the contrary, the energy sector reforms supported by this
operation are expected to increase production and availability of cleaner fuels (natural gas, LPG) and to
improve the quality of petroleum  products.  Pakistan has also a comprehensive and modern
Environmental Law, and during recent years has been building the institutional framework to enforce the
legislation. However, Pakistan's public administrative capacity is weak. During this year the South Asia
Environment and Social Development Unit will conduct an assessment of the degree of compliance that
exists with respect to environmental legislation in key areas, and identify institutional reforms that may be
needed in the future. Special attention will be give to assess the adequacy of environmental compliance
in the context of privatization. A preliminary environmental compliance review has been conducted for
KESC, which is being privatized, with special focus on the areas of gaseous and liquid emissions
prescribed by the National Environmental Quality Standards. Initial findings are that KESC had no
environmental reporting systems and, despite having the equipment, tests were carried out irregularly.
Some plants have not been tested in more than five years. Liquid and gaseous emission tests are now
being conducted to assess compliance and the costs of the remedial work that may be required. Investors
are likely to seek a period of exemption to achieve compliance and indemnity for potential risks of past
activities.
G. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
111.  The I-PRSP outlines an ambitious program of change-in economic policies, in institutions, and
in the civil service culture. The actions supported by this Credit will contribute to laying the foundations
for poverty reduction and will contribute to maintain macroeconomic stability needed to support the
implementation of structural reforms. Pakistan is not yet in a position to implement the I-PRSP without
significant advances in stabilizing the economy, creating the breathing space for implementation of tough
reforms, and laying the institutional basis for good government. The upside is that significant external
support from the IFIs, governments, and private creditors, will help strengthen the government's efforts to
restore investor confidence in the economy. Without this support Pakistan faces the prospect of continued
sluggish growth and further delays in poverty reduction.
Risks
112.  The risks faced in the implementation of this program are essentially four: political opposition to
reform; lack of continuity, insufficient institutional capacity; and exogenous shocks. Of all the risks,
political opposition to reform is the most immediate. The reforms challenge vested interests in state
36



owned enterprises being privatized, in power companies seeking to reduce theft, in banks seeking to
reduce poor performance, and in consumers benefiting from subsidized energy prices. A mitigating factor
is that the government has been careful of possible popular reactions, and has sequenced reforms. It has
made a deliberate effort to communicate the content and rationale for unpopular measures being taken,
and sought to pace the timing of the reforms to minimize adverse impact.
113.  Continuity of reforms ris/c is also important. As the term of the current government approaches
its end in October 2002, the question naturally arises whether the next government will continue to
implement the program. The sustainability risk is being mitigated in a number of ways. Many of the
reforms have been implemented and are by their nature difficult to reverse. Some of the most important
reforms, such as devolution, are ;mchored in democratically elected local governments, and draw their
strength from them. Consensus has been built around what remains to be done. More specifically, the
President is expected to remain in! office for a further term of five years, and to see the reform program
through completion. Finally, and perhaps more importantly, the population is starting to perceive the
benefits of the reform program-which is the best source for continuity.
114.  Implementation risk sterns from the technical and institutional capacity constraints especially in
the reforms that involve the provincial and district levels, as well as in the preparation and
implementation of the full PRSP. To mitigate this risk, programs of technical assistance are supporting
all the key areas of reform.
115.   Finally, exogenous shocks may require adjustment in fiscal and extemal policies beyond what is
being envisaged. In particular, growth may tum out to be less than anticipated in the current forecasts
underlying the macroeconomic program. Lower growth could be caused by a longer than expected global
slowdown, protracted military op-rations in the region, or weather related shocks to agricultural output.
These shocks would need to be met through a combination of additional adjustment measures and
extemal financing-none of which can be taken for granted.
37



#11 tct utiAf,
ISLAMABAD
May 14, 2002
PAKISTAN
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
Washington D.C., 20433
USA
Subject: Pakistan - Second Structural Adjustment Credit
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1 Introduction
1.1   Over the last two and a half years, the Government of Pakistan has pursued with determination a
strong program of macroeconomic stabilization coupled with wide-ranging structural reforms that have
set Pakistan's economy on a path towards sustainable growth and poverty-reduction. We have
implemented measures to reform key institutions, reduce the fiscal deficit, encourage export-oriented
growth, improve the climate for domestic and foreign investment, strengthen the banking system, improve
public financial management and accountability, enhance transparency and external oversight of
government actions, strengthen social safety nets, and improve the delivery of key public services in
health, education, and family planning.
1.2   During the last year, we finalized our Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which
was discussed at the Boards of the World Bank and the IMF, and was the basis for our agreement with the
IME on a three-year PRGF program. The I-PRSP was developed with due consultation with the civil
society and addresses the problem of poverty in all its manifestations. The I-PRSP now institutionalizes
the country's development agenda and will guide the agenda for future reforms. The I-PRSP focuses on:
Engendering growtb. Revitalizing economic growth is our main vehicle to achieve poverty
reduction. To foster growth we are implementing a strong stabilization program to reduce the
fiscal deficit, contain the domestic and external debt, and set a path for macroeconomic
sustainability that will reduce country risk and encourage investment. These efforts are being
complemented with policies to unleash private sector initiatives. Our economic policy framework
relies on the private sector as the engine of growth, with the government providing adequate
regulations to a market-oriented efficient economy.
Improving governance. The root cause of Pakistan's ills has been the absence of good
governance. Our government is determined to institutionalize good governance through wide
ranging policies that include devolution of powers, modernization of key public institutions, civil
service reforms, improved public financial management, and structural reforms leading to
privatization of the most important public corporations and state-owned financial institutions.
Human development and social protection. All our efforts, however, will be of little
significance if Pakistan does not adequately address its human development needs. The fruits of
stronger growth and good governance need to be put at the service of improving education,



health, and welfare of the Pakistani people, with special attention to reducing gender imbalances.
We are implementing fundamental reforms to improve service delivery through devolution,
complemented with sector reforms. Our poverty reduction program is also based on re-orienting
public expenditures towards human development and poverty reduction.
2.     Recent Economic Developments
2.1    The events of September 11, 2001 and the subsequent escalation in tensions on Pakistan's Eastern
Border have introduced some of the risks for an early revival of our economy. In the short run, exports,
foreign direct investment, and the prospects for privatization were all severely affected. GDP growth
estimates for this fiscal year htave been lowered from 4 to 3.3 percent. Slower growth has affected tax
collections and the financing gap envisaged for this fiscal year widened. On the expenditure side, the
declining trend of military expenditures in relation to GDP, to which we are strongly committed, had to
be temporarily reversed.
2.2    The prompt response of the international community has helped to mitigate the impact of these
negative shocks. United States, Japan, UK, and the European Union have provided budgetary support
and/or enhanced access to exports. The Paris Club provided a generous package of extended debt
rescheduling on the entire stock of bilateral debt. More recently, donor countries including the United
States, Canada, Germany, Italy, Norway, and the United Kingdom have announced further packages of
debt relief. All this has allowed us to protect spending on the social sectors and to bridge part of our
financing gaps.
2.3    Notwithstanding this difficult environment, we have steadfastly continued  with the
implementation of our prograrn of reforms. A positive market response is being felt. Exports are finally
starting to pick up and we telieve we are now returning to normalcy leaving behind the impact of
September 11. In the last two months we have succeeded in completing the bidding for two relatively
large privatization transaction;. This is an important signal since in the immediate months we intend to
bring to the point of sale some of Pakistan's major companies in the oil and gas, telecommunications,
power, and banking sectors.
2.4    We are also pleased to see that our efforts to improve the delivery of social services and basic
infrastructure have gained momentum. Our strategy is largely based on grass-root implementation at the
local government We have launched devolution, made funding to the local governments available,
removed administrative obstacles for implementation, all the while strengthening financial management.
Our efforts are starting to pay off. Pro-poor expenditures increased significantly in the third quarter of
this fiscal year and we are confident that this pattem will be further accelerated in the remainder of the
year.
2.5    While through the sustained implementation of reforms we have started to tum the tide, reversing
the negative debt dynamics that prevailed when this government took office and debt sustainability
remains a concem. Our external debt indicators are still above the HIPC thresholds of sustainability.
Continued fiscal adjustment, and above all, faster export-oriented growth are the key for exiting the debt
trap and achieving our goals for poverty reduction. To that end, we are committed to accelerate the
implementation of our program of reformis.
3.     The Program of Structural Reforms
3.1    Our I-PRSP presents a comprehensive program of structural reforms. A crucial sub-set of these is
discussed here. In all these areas we have already taken significant steps to achieve our objectives and
2



developed a road map for future actions to ensure that by October 2002, significant irreversible changes
will have taken place to help sustain reforms in the future.
Engendering Growth
3.2   Improving the business environment. One of our major challenges is to restore investor
confidence. Our business environment has suffered from instability of policies and excessive state
interventions that raise the cost of doing business. Our goal is to provide a stable policy environment,
which reduces the incentives for lobbying and rent-seeking, and discourages corruption. We are also
committed to accelerate our integration to the world economy by reducing tariff protection and curtailing
inefficiencies in the administration of the GST and duty-drawbacks rebates to exporters. In all these areas
we want to focus our support on the small and medium size enterprises, rural and urban. Their
development is essential if we are to achieve our poverty reduction goals.
3.3    We have taken important steps to improve the business environment. The (SRO) culture that
thrived on government-granted privileges has largely been done away with. We promulgated a new
income tax law which establishes uniform taxes for all companies (other than banks), and limits
exemptions to existing contracts. Custom duty or GST exemptions are not granted any longer. The 1977
Price Control and Hoarding Act which covered sixty six essential products has been dismantled. Sixty-
four products have been liberalized with only text-books and fertilizer still remaining under the purview
of the Act. Tariff barriers have been reduced with the maximum tariff rate falling from 35 percent to 30
percent. CBR has expedited the payments of the GST and duty drawback due to exporters. The backlog
of refunds due which exceeded US$100 million at the beginning of this fiscal year has been eliminated.
3.4    Our work in all these areas will intensify in the coming year. A high level Committee for
Deregulation, chaired by the Minister of Finance, is overseeing the development and implementation of a
comprehensive program to carry out regulatory, legal, and policy reforms to eliminate red tape and
administrative barriers, and reform labor laws to promote employment. We have been developing these
programs with the active participation of the Small and Medium Size Enterprise Development Authority.
Our program of trade liberalization will be continued. In the coming year we will reduce the maximum
tariff from 30 to 25 percent, and further reduce the dispersion of our tariff rates. The Central Board of
Revenue will continue to improve our duty drawback and GST refund systems to exporters to increase
their transparency and timeliness while strengthening audits to prevent fraud and abuse.
3.5    Privatization. In the coming year we intend to privatize, through a transparent process many of
the country's largest public enterprises. These include Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited
(PTCL), Oil and Gas Development Company Limited (OGDC); Pakistan State Oil (PSO), Karachi
Electric Supply Company (KESC), Faisalabad Electric Supply Company (FESCO), Jamshoro Generation
Company, and United Bank Limited (UBL). The Ministry of Privatization has hired world-class financial
advisers to help carry through the transactions. So far we have finalized two transactions in the LPG
sector and carried through the bidding for the government's interests in nine oil and gas fields and a large
state-owned fertilizer plant. Before October 2002 we hope to have completed these two transactions and
also carried out the bidding for KESC, PTCL, PSO, and UBL Privatization of other large public sector
enterprises including Pakistan Petroleum Limited, Habib Bank, and the two natural gas transport and
distribution companies will follow soon thereafter.
3.6    Natural Gas. We intend to develop a private natural gas sector that fulfills the country's large
potential. We are implementing sweeping reforms to eliminate price distortions, reduce the role of
govemment in commercial operations through privatization, and strengthen sector regulations. The
comerstone of our reforms is the adoption of a gas-pricing framework to reduce distortions, make
transparent through the budget existing subsidies, and ensure that the final price of gas to consumers is
3



sufficient to cover the costs of the exploration and development under the current provisions of the
petroleum concession agreement;. Implementation is underway. Retail tariffs are now adjusted on a
semi-annual basis. Well-head prices of our largest field under production, the state-owned Pakistan
Petroleum Limited (PPL), are being brought in line with the prices of private sector fields in a phased
manner. This will hasten sector reforms and pave the way for PPL's privatization.
3.7   In the coming year we will deepen reforms. We will complete a new Gas Purchase Agreement
for PPL, and establish a new pricing framework for the two gas transmission and distribution companies
to encourage better performance. We also intend to privatize these companies in the next two years.
Finally, we intend to rationalize the existing subsidies of natural gas. The implicit subsidy that is granted
to the fertilizer industry, who pays a fraction of the opportunity cost of gas, will be made transparent
through the budget in fiscal year :003/04. We will also review the subsidy to domestic consumers with a
view to improving its targeting to the poor.
3.8    Petroleum. Petroleum products represent a very high share of our total imports and are a key
input for the economy. Our goal is to encourage efficiency through competition, for which we have
implemented an unprecedented program of market liberalization. Retail and ex-refinery prices are now
either completely free (furnace coil or LPG) or are adjusted automatically on a fortnightly basis in line
with international prices. Pakistan is the first country in South Asia where petroleum products prices are
adjusted automatically on a periodic basis. Oil marketers and large consumers are free to import all
products. The cartel-type freighl: arrangements are being dismantled. As a first step, transport rates to
secondary markets have been liberalized allowing prices to differ across some geographical areas.
Subsidies to the refineries are being made transparent through the budget. Environmental standards have
been strengthened and unleaded gasoline is now available to 70 percent of the population.
3.9    We intend to deepen all these reforms. To further competition, the fortnight adjustment of
petroleum prices will be based or! prices as ceilings. We will phase out the system that provides subsidies
to the refineries through guaranteed rates of return since they are a deterrent to competition. We will
continue to liberalize the transpcrt system by allowing prices to differ across wider geographical areas.
Finally, as a part of the privatizetion process we intend to very shortly complete the transaction for the
Working Interest in nine Oil/Gas fields, and bring to the point of sale during this calendar year the
sector's largest state-owned companies: Pakistan State Oil Ltd, and the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation. To underpin and oversee these reforms, we have recently established a new regulatory
authority Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA) which will be fully operational this year.
3.10   Power. We are commitned to transform the state-dominated power sector into a more effective
tool for our country's development. We are in dire need of: (a) expanding electricity supply to our rural
areas where about half of the population does not have access; (b) more efficiently meeting the
requirements of the productive sectors; and (c) restoring the financially viability of the sector. The
challenges ahead are many: govemance problems continue to hinder collections, public sector arrears are
still a problem, WAPDA and KESC suffer from the ills that are common to most public enterprises, and
the technical capacity of the regulator needs to be strengthened significantly. Tariff policies need to be
more predictable. Power consunmers need to pay for the true cost of the service, while the quality of the
latter also needs to improve. Ultimately, the sector cannot continue to be a source of macroeconomic
instability that can prevent us from achieving the expenditure priorities of the poverty reduction strategy,
or reaching the fiscal deficit targets of the debt reduction strategy.
3.11 We are taking strong measures to reach our objectives. In the short run, our reform of program is
based on: (a) improving the efficiency of the utilities by accelerating the unbundling of the Water
Development Authority (WAPDA) into autonomous independent distribution (eight), generation (three),
and transmission (one) companies with a view to privatization; (b) promptly privatizing the Karachi
4



Electric Supply Company; and (c) restoring the financial viability of the sector through the
implementation of a financial improvement plan. At the core of the financial plan is the adoption of tariff
policies that will allow the sector to achieve a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. This will
allow it to cover its operational and debt service obligations, finance part of its investment program, and
do not have recourse to the government's budget to fill financing gaps. The financial improvement plan
is fully consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed under the PRGF. Over the medium termi,
we expect the power sector to be operating within a competitive framework, in the hands of the private
sector.
3.12   We have initiated the implementation of the financial improvement plan. As a part of the plan,
WAPDA has filed a request for a new tariff structure that we expect will be in place by July 2002 alter
due process by NEPRA. In the meantime we have taken steps to reduce the financial burden of WAPDA
on this year's budget by adopting an interim tariff increase, rationalizing WAPDA's investments, and
accelerating the settlement of arrears from public sector institutions.  We have also accelerated the
corporatization of WAPDA. NEPRA has issued the operating licenses to all eight distribution companies,
staff have been officially transferred, and policy decisions required for the transfer of assets and liabilities
to the new entities have been taken.
3.13   During this coming year we will complete the corporatization of WAPDA's power wing,
including the appointment of new professional management Private sector participation, including
privatization, is also a priority. We expect to complete the transaction of KESC before October 2002 and
bring one of WAPDA's distribution companies (FESCO) and one generation company (JAMCO) to the
point of sale. At the same time we will work with the Ministry of Privatization and the corporatized
entities in exploring all alternative avenues for enhanced private sector participation in generation and
distribution. The program for the privatization of the remaining corporatized entities will be announced
once the first privatizations have been successfully completed. Throughout the year we will monitor
closely the implementation of the financial improvement plan and will take remedial actions as needed for
its compliance. Finally, to support privatization and the medium term program of reforms, we will issue a
new policy guideline that will form the basis for the transition towards a competitive market structure.
3.14   Agriculture and Rural Development. Agriculture is the mainstay of our economy and rural
development a cornerstone of our poverty reduction strategy. Our main challenge is to increase
productivity and reduce vulnerability to shocks by improving access to land, to credit, to infrastructure,
particularly water, and to provide opportunities in the non-farm sector. We are working in all these areas.
Rural infrastructure is being supported by our large community-based small infrastructure programs and
the launching of important water conservation schemes across the country. We have strengthened access
to rural credit through our Poverty Alleviation Fund and a new micro-finance bank. We have also been
implementing a program to distribute state-owned land to the poor. Perhaps where most progress has
been achieved so far is in restoring the incentives for agriculture production by removing distortions and
allowing domestic prices to align with international prices. Over the coming years we will continue to
implement reforms to further liberalize important markets such as sugar and wheat, encourage private
sector investment in storage and marketing, and encourage private sector participation in seed
development and production.
3.15   We are cognizant, though, that more needs to be done to articulate and implement a
comprehensive rural development strategy that would encompass all aspects of rural development:
technology, water, rural infrastructure, land market policies, and fiscal/taxation issues that affect the
efficient use and distribution of land. We intend to carry out this work in the coming years and promptly
implement the policy recommendations that will emanate from them.
5



3.16   Banking. We contirue our program of reforms to reduce the burden of the state banks on the
economy. We aim for a banking system in private hands, operating under rigorous banking regulations,
in a competitive financial environment. Our strategy is to privatize all three of the nationalized
commercial banks and divest minority interest in the two partially privatized banks, all the while
strengthening regulations and oversight capacity. With Bank support, the three large nationalized
commercial banks are being restructured to reduce their cost and make them more attractive for
privatization. Staff have opted for voluntary retirement and un-productive branches have been closed,
mostly in urban areas. The 'National Development Finance Corporation-the largest state-owned non-
bank financial institution, has been closed through a merger with the National Bank of Pakistan. The
process leading to privatizaticn has continued. In the coming year we intend to complete the restructuring
of the three nationalized commercial banks, divest all our minority shares in Muslim Commercial Bank
and Allied Bank Limited; ancl bring United Bank Limited to the point of sale. Habib Bank would follow
soon thereafter.
Improving Governance
3.17   Tax Policy and Administration. This is the cornerstone of our reform program, for in the
absence of improved tax administration leading to a substantial increase in revenues it will be impossible
to exit the debt trap and implement our poverty reduction strategy. We envision a modem tax system
based on a few buoyant, broad-based taxes, such as the general sales tax (GST) and a modern income tax,
with improved tax collections through a modern and honest tax administration agency that will reduce
collection costs and the burden of poor governance on taxpayers. After a process of consultations and
analytical work we have launched the program for the fundamental restructuring of CBR. The reform
strategy calls for a complete meorganization of CBR over a three year period with fundamental changes in
human resource management, business processes, and use of technology. To implement these reforms,
CBR has been provided the aLutonomy to define its human resource policy, including pay and incentives
schemes, and administrative autonomy. A Supervisory Council chaired by the Minister of Finance and
with private sector participation has been established to oversee the reforms.
3.18   New leadership has been appointed and the top management tier of CBR has been strengthened
in the key areas of audit, fiscal research, information technology, tax education and facilitation, and
hunan resources. In the comning year we intend to: (a) establish a large tax-payer unit in Karachi; (b)
introduce self-assessment for income tax; (c) implement a revised system to process sales tax refund to
exporters; and (d) implement a new human resource policy and integrity drive. All the while closely
monitoring and seeking adherence to our revenue targets. Over the next three years we intend to have a
tax collection system which on the basis of extensive use of information technology minimizes the
contact between tax-payers mad tax officials, and a changed culture with reduced corruption helped by the
induction of "living wage" for tax officials.
3.19 Public Financial MNnagement. Over the years, as overall governance deteriorated, Pakistan's
financial management and accountability framework atrophied. Accounting rules and regulations were
not followed. External oversight was extremely weak as the Public Accounts Committees almost ceased
to function. We have been working diligently to turn this situation around. We are implementing
comprehensive reforms to have a modern public accounting and integrated financial management system
at the federal, provincial, and district levels; to modernize the public audit function; and to establish more
effective external oversight through Public Accounts Committees and public access to information.
3.20   The public accounting and audit functions have been separated and the Office of the Controller
General of Accounts (CGA) established. The CGA has started implementation of a short and medium
term program of reforms lo improve the quality of financial management.  Progress has been
considerable. Reconciliation of expenditures and revenues which had been thoroughly neglected now
6



reach almost 100 percent at the federal and provincial levels with the exception of Punjab. Federal
unidentified expenditures have also declined significantly. From almost I percent of GDP two years ago,
they have been steadily decreasing to 0.4 percent at the end of last fiscal year. We expect that these
unidentified expenditures will decline to no more than 0.1 percent of GDP by the end of next fiscal year.
We are accelerating the implementation of PIFRA with a view to have a fully computerized accounting
system based on a modem chart of accounts operating at the federal, provincial, and district level by
2004. We are also extending these systems to the local government level.
3.21  External oversight has been significantly strengthened through the combined work of the Auditor
General and the functioning of the federal Public Accounts Committee (PAC). For the first time in years,
the PAC is now reviewing the actions of a government in office. There is widespread recognition that the
functioning of the PAC is helping to change the environment for accountability. Since the hearings were
opened to the press last year, there is extensive coverage on the deliberations which include all areas of
government, including defense. Issues of misappropriation, negligence in financial management, and the
like are now public knowledge and this is having a deterrence effect. The PAC has already identified and
requested that more than Rs 14 billion be recovered from misuse of funds. Of these, about Rs. 2.5 billion
have been recovered. The Auditor General is establishing a tracking mechanism to ensure compliance.
The effectiveness of the PAC could not be possible if it were not for the improved quality, timeliness,
comprehensiveness, and completeness of the audit reports. The reports straight-forwardly point to serious
problems of non-compliance with rules and lack of regard of value-for-money that beset the public
sector-which we are forcefully arresting.  Important additional reforms are the opening of the
provincial PACs hearings to the press, the continued implementation of the Auditor General's program to
improve the audit function, and the longer term prograrn of reforms in public accounting and reporting.
These include above all, strengthening training, inducting more qualified human resources to lead the
public accounting management at the district level, and strengthening internal controls. Once these
systems are functioning and in place, we intend to devolve the accounting and treasury functions now
under the purview of the CGA to the provincial and district governments.
3.22   Procurement. We are determined to implement fundamental procurement reforms at the
national level. Pakistan has a plethora of procurement rules and legislation. But the lack of uniform rules
has been used as a means to stifle competition and hamper accountability. We have established a federal
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) responsible for leading the process of establishing
modem procurement rules and a new Procurement Law over the coming year. We expect that in fiscal
year 2002/3 at least one third of the national public procurement will be carried out under revised rules
and regulations including the defense procurement. After passage of the Procurement Law, the
proportion of procurement under modem rules will exceed 50 percent. We will also work with the
provinces to encourage their adoption of the modem procurement framework so that coverage will reach
100 percent.
3.23  Civil Service Reform. The govemment desires to create a leaner more effective civil service
through holistic refoms that restore merit-based recruitment and promotions, enhance career
development through adequate training, improve the skill mix; all encouraged by a more transparent
compensation system with closer links to market wages. Implementation of the reforms initiated in early
2000, has been strong in all fronts. In the interest of merit-based recruitment a more autonomous Federal
Public Service Commission (FPSC) now carries out all recruitment for middle and professional levels,
and is also carrying out the recruitments at lower grades for key institutions. Promotions panels for
higher grades are now chaired by the FPSC Chairman, and to ensure quality of higher grade staff,
acceptance by advanced training programs are now subject to entry exaninations.
3.24  The first phase of pay and pension reforms has been implemented. All federal civil service,
including military, were provided the option of accessing a new pay-scale in conjunction with revisions in
7



pension benefits. The revised pay-scales restored about 75 percent of the lost purchasing power of wages
since 1994. The revision in pensions was geared to increase its affordability. To that end commutation
rates were reduced and based on more actuarially fair factors. This pay and pension reform is being
complemented by a program to right size the federal work-force which was approved by Cabinet in June
2001. In the future, key policy measures will be the sustained implementation of the right-sizing
program. Since the affordability of the existing pension system is of concern, we will carry through with
a second phase of our pay and p.-nsion reforms. These will include the adoption of a contributory pension
system for new entrants; revised pay-scales to decompress salaries and increase transparency by
monetizing allowances; and adopting actuarially fair commutation rates and actuarially fair pensions for
early retirement. Finally, we will accelerate the implementation of our programs to improve performance
evaluation, merit-based promotions, training and recruitment reforms. On the latter, one of our key
policies will be the creation of a new Economist Cadre which is badly needed to strengthen the
development and implementation of policy and regulatory reforms.
3.25  Devolution. Pakistan has had a highly centralized political and fiscal system which in our view
has hampered economic growtth and social progress. Our strategy is to improve governance in service
delivery through fundamental devolution of powers to accountable elected local governments, with the
requisite authority, capacity, financial resources, administrative and financial systems, and accountability
mechanisms to deliver local public services effectively and serve the poor. Our strategy also pays special
attention to minimizing fiduciary risks. To that we are maintaining the accounting and financial
management systems of the districts under the purview of the new Controller General of Accounts and the
Auditor General of Pakistan.
3.26   Devolution was launched in August 2001, through the promulgation of comprehensive Local
Government Ordinances (LGO) in each of the four provinces. The LGO clearly defines the roles of three
different tiers of local government and spells out a fiscal framework including taxing authority. For this
fiscal year, Provincial Transition Committees have done the work of drawing up the budgets for each of
the 96 districts, but these have been revised by the elected governments. Drawing from the experience of
other countries, the LGO sets iJp a system of financial controls based on hard budget constraints, and
extends to the local government level the public financial management and accountability systems that
operate at the federal and provincial levels. The LGO also prescribes additional systems of checks and
balances to prevent the capturing of the local governments by the elites. Local service delivery has been
set to depend on the interplay tetween the District Councils and grass-root Citizen Community Boards
(CCBs) who will determine the allocations of 50 percent of total development expenditures at the district
level and below. On the political side, we have also taken significant steps to ensure broad representation.
Seats are not only reserved for women, but the quota system also extends to peasants, workers, and
religious minorities.
3.27 With more than one hundred thousand new councilors at the different levels of local government,
training programs for their new role are essential. With political decentralization launched, the next and
more time-intensive step is fiscal decentralization. The provinces, districts and NRB are jointly designing
a system of intergovernmental fiscal relations with a view to secure transparency, to maintain hard local
budget constraints, and to give local governments the opportunity to raise additional resources. A next
key area of reform will be the .-ffective devolution of the civil service to District Cadres. Finally, for
effective devolution, the districts need soon to do their own budget preparation and management, with
appropriate mechanisms for provfincial monitoring starting with the upcoming fiscal year 2003 budgets.
Human Developmnent and Social Protection
3.28  The I-PRSP recognizes that arresting the crisis of human development is essential for future
sustainable growth and poverty reduction. The priority is to improve the delivery system while gradually
8



increasing expenditures in basic education, primary health care, and family planning. Learning from the
experience of the Social Action Program (SAP), our priority is to fix the social delivery system of its
severe governance problems first, and gradually address the funding issue through the impact of
improvements in tax administration, stronger economic growth and assistance from donors.
3.29   Education. We intend to develop an education system that provides quality education, enabling
all citizens to reach their maximum potential. A system where all children, including girls, attend school
at least up to grade eight; helped by the existence of a better functioning basic public education system,
with trained teachers, adequate physical environment for learning, supportive technical supervision of
curriculum and learning materials, and more effectively managed by district level governments, with
greater accountability, and strong parent and community participation.
3.30   Primary education is our priority. The linchpin for change is the Education Sector Reforms
(ESR) Action Plan whose implementation lies with the provincial and district govemments. The ESR is a
comprehensive sector-wide program that seeks to increase access, enhance quality and equity at all levels
of education. It focuses on devolution/decentralization to improve governance, addresses quality and
systemic issues such as curricula reforrn, resource allocation and mobilization, teacher training, girls'
education, national education assessment, the setting and monitoring of national targets, expansion of
literacy programs as well as non-formal, and higher education programs. It also seeks to strengthen
public-private partnerships in service delivery. The systemic reforms pursued under the ESR are being
complemented by efforts at the provincial level (and eventually district level) to improve service delivery
through specific measures to curtail staff absenteeism, improve use of infrastructure facilities, and
rationalize investments to reduce waste.
3.31  To support this program the federal budget allocations for education have been doubled, using the
fiscal space created by donor support. Additional resources are being directed to the provinces and
districts in the form of performance-based contracts to support school rehabilitation, expansion of the
school feeding program for girls to encourage enrollment, teacher training, and to launch National
Education Assessment, to monitor education quality and better direct resources. To strengthen private-
public partnerships, the National Education Foundation which supports non-government schools is being
strengthened by providing it greater autonomy and increases in its sphere of activities. An enhanced
package of benefits and incentives has also been approved in support of the growing private education
sector.
3.32   Having defined the framework of our reform program, over the coming year we will focus on
implementation in the context of devolution. We intend to measure our progress and success by
outcomes which we have identified as part of our I-PRSP. We are establishing several systems to
measure performance and achievement. In the short run we will monitor the performance of our public
schools through measures such as such as teacher absenteeism and the level of functionality of schools.
In three years we expect to have concrete measures of educational attainment. To that end we have
launched the long overdue National Education Assessment program that will inform parents with children
in both private and public schools on the adequacy of the education their children are receiving. Finally
we also intend to continue to strengthen private/public partnership strategies; and strengthen literacy and
non-formal education programs especially for out of school youth.
3.33   Health. We intend to develop a public health system increasingly focused in preventative and
public health, that contributes significantly to lower child and maternal mortality, with reduced fertility
rates in accordance with the population's preferences,. and with a universal coverage of routine
immunization programs for children. While we have been making steady progress at the federal level in
the implementation of specific programs, such as immunization and family planning, the provincial-based
health services remain poor. To increase the access and the quality of services to the people, many issues
9



need to be tackled. Weak policy formulation capacity, centralized management, frequent staff transfers
and absenteeism are some of the challenges faced in this area. The imbalances in the composition of
expenditures, between salaries and medicines is also an issue. The private provision of health services
also suffers from important deficiencies, which include lack of consumer protection/consumer education.
There is a small NGO sector with relatively limited coverage.
3.34 All' our provincial governments are working to address the above-mentioned deficiencies. At the
same time, the budgets for the most critical programs in support of focus on maternal and child health,
and family planning have been increased. The community-based Lady Health Workers continues to be
strengthened at a fast pace. Recruitment is focused on increasing coverage in rural areas to expand the
programs' coverage to about tvwo thirds of the target population or 66 million women and children. A
medium term program to improve immunization coverage by about 5 percent per year have been prepared
and external and domestic funding has been secured. Third party surveys have been conducted to
establish a baseline of existing coverage. A more ambitious program for HIV/AIDS prevention is being
launched under strong leadership.
3.35 In the near future our priorities are to expand the reach of the Lady Health Worker program to
about 100 million beneficiaries, accelerate the implementation of the child immunization program to
increase immunization coveragc by at least 5 percent per year; and implement the expanded HIV/AIDS
program. We are shifting our attention away from inputs and into outputs and results. A priority for us is
to develop measurement systems and credible targets to measure our performance. The development of
reliable information at the national, provincial, and district level, is essential to facilitate planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and to orient increases in budget resources. Another challenge is to increase
the budgets for health expenditures significantly. There are severe capacity constraints at the provincial
and local government that neel to be addressed if expenditures are to increase significantly. Future
expenditure reviews will assess the potential to accelerate the key public programs; but ultimately,
broader sector reforms will neecl to be implemented at the provincial and local government level.
Progress Towards the FuldPk'SP
3.36  I-PRSP Monitoring anid Evaluation.  In the past, even when growth led to strong poverty
reduction, concomitant improvements in social sector indicators did not follow. Too few public resources
have been devoted to provide lbetter access to health, education, family planning, and other pro-poor
services. Moreover, resources have often been managed poorly. Improving social outcomes in Pakistan
is therefore as much an issue of increasing resources, as that of appropriately targeting and improving the
effectiveness of spending through better governance. The strategy for poverty reduction and for
improving human development is built on these principles which are at the heart of our reform program.
These efforts need to be comp:lemented by systems to monitor and evaluate outcomes at the federal,
provincial, and district level. Development of such systems is one of the main objectives in the transition
to the full PRSP.
3.37   Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and close tracking of implementation of pro-poor
expenditures has already commenced. Human development and pro-poor expenditures have been clearly
defined and a system to monitor these expenditures on a quarterly basis is in place. To monitor progress
in human development we have established in conjunction with the provinces and line Ministries a
preliminary set of indicators that can be tracked on a short term basis and through which we can link
public expenditures with results on the ground. After a long period of consultations, a methodology to
determine the poverty line has been agreed on to help track progress in poverty reduction which we will
carry out on a bi-annual basis.
10



3.38  We are committed to build on these initial efforts. As a part of the preparation of the full PRSP
the government will: (a) expand the analyses of and monitoring of l-PRSP expenditures to include
comparisons vis-a-vis budget allocations, as well as last year's expenditures, monitor salary and non-
salary expenditures in key sectors; and make quarterly reports more meaningful by providing rationale for
deviations in sector expenditures from their nonnal trends and base that analyses on reconciled
expenditure data; (b) carry out updates of trends in poverty; (c) finalize the selection of priority indicators
for monitoring poverty outcomes and related intermediate targets. This entails setting baselines and
targets, employing a consistent definition and an identified data source, and involving the provinces and
local governments where most of the service delivery takes place and the information resides; and (d)
build technical capacity, particularly in the provinces and districts-an important aspect in implementing
effective monitoring. In addition, to meet the monitoring requirement, the data collecting agencies are
being strengthened so that they can supply the required information. The National PRSP Implementation
Committee would provide the feedback for policy evaluation and to take corrective measures for any
weakening of the PRSP commitments.
4.    Conclusion
4.1   The reform program outlined above seeks to carry forward and consolidate the process that was
supported by the Bank under SAC- 1. It would broaden and deepen the process of structural reform and
give further confidence to the markets that the reform are embedded in the imperatives of Pakistan's
economy. The follow-up actions we have committed will be carried forward by the new government that
will take office after the general elections in October 2002. We are confident that the agenda of reforms
is based on a national consensus and will therefore remain above the political partisanship that inevitably
emerges in a democratic system.
With all the best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
/          S~~~haukat Aziz
Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs
Islamic Republic of Pakistan



Annex B
Page 1 of 9
PAKISTAN
MATRIX OF POLICY MEASURES
(trigers in bold)
SAC I - Prior Actions        |                 SAC IX - Prior Actions                                  Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)          1                   (Board June 2002)                                   (Fisal Years 2003-2005)
's !- -   ' % 7 . _  -  '  ' 'PILLAR 1: ENGENDERING GROWrH                                            -
PRIVATIZATION AND         *  The Cabinet has approvea a short and  .  The President has constituted an inter-Ministenal Deregulation  * The government will have brought to the point of sale
DEREGULATION FOR             medium term strategy and timetable for  Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance to oversee and  Pakistan Telecommunii ations Company Umhed, Unked
IMPROVED BUSINESS            prvatization focused on the critical large  guide regulatory reforms across sectors.          Bank Limited, Karachi Electricity Supply Company,
ENVIRONMENT                  public enterprisesPakisn State Oil, Oil and Gas Development
telecommunications, banking, oil and gas.  *  Price and profiteering and hoarding controls on all but two  Corporaton, and Farsalabad Electicity Supply Company.
To promote growth by      *To facilitate privatizatlon, a           of the sixty-six essential products specified In the Schedule  *The Ministerial Commiftte on Deregulation vwil have
improving te businessPrivatization Ordinance was enacted in  to the government's Price Control and Prevention of   accelerated the Implementation of its program by: (a)
imprving the businessaiain                riac    eseatdi           Profteering and Hoarding Act 1977 [c  o  XXo  97
.n,,irn,n-nf* InC'r~eaSnn    September 2000.                                - Prftern  and Hadin  c,17  Ato  XXo  97       amending labor laws to encourage employment while
consistency and predictability  * The privatization of Sui South LPG Plant                                                 protecting worker's rights; (b) Implementing a program
of policies, limiting the    has been completed.                 *Continued implementation of program to grant no new      to eliminate administrative barriers; and (c) working In
opportunities for rent-seeking                                      exemptions or special privileges regarding income tax, custom  conjunction with CBR carried out a comp)rhensive
behavior, and reducing the                                         duties, GST, or to impose new regulatory duties. Phasing out of  review of SRO system and Implemented an action plan to
role of the state in productive                                    time-bound regulatory import duties and no adoption of new  eliminate unnecessary ones, monitor lapsing of time-
activities.                                                         ones except for existing contracts or intemational commitments.  bound SROs, and define clear criteria for maintaining
*  The privatization of the Sui North LPG Plant has been  required ones.
completed.                                           . Continued implementation of program to grant no new tax or
*  The bidding for the privatization of the Saudi-Pak Fertilizer  duty exemptions or special privileges regarding income tax,
Company and Nine Working Interests in Oil and Gas has been  custom duties, or GST. No new regulatory duties to be
completed.                                            imposed. Phasing out of time-bound regulatory import duties
and no adoption of new ones except for existing contracts or
intemational commitments. Policy changes to be confined to
regular and transparent forums, such as the annual budget.
* The govemment will have issued the Competition Law
Ordinance (replacing the Monopoly and Restrictive Trade
Practices Act of 1978) to control and eliminate anti-
competitive business practices and unfair methods of
competition that adversely affect trade and economic
development.
TRADE REFORM              * To reduce nominal protecion and      * To reduce the anti-export bias and encourage exports, the  *  To reduce the anti-export bias and encourage exports, the
brig the maximum nominal effective     maximum tanff rate has been reduced from 35 percent to 30  maximum tariff rate will have been reduced from 30 percent
tariff to 35 percent, the differential  percent and the tariff slabs reduced from five to four.  to 25 percent and the tariff slabs reduced from four to three.
To improve export            applicaton of excise taxes on imported                                                     *  The Central Board of Revenue would have continued the
performance by reducing anti-  and domestc products has been     *  (a) Actions have been taken by CBR to Increase the     implementation of its action plan to increase transparency
export bias of trade policy  eliminated for all but eleven products  transparency and speed of refunds of GST and duty      and expediency in the refund of the General Sales Tax and
and through institutionai    which are subject to regulatory duties.  drawbacks to exporters; and (b) such refunds in the first 9  duty drawback to exporters in the context of the broader
reforms.                  * To promote the exports of small and     months of FY02 have registered an Increase of about 45%  CBR reforms. New administrative procedures replacing
medium enterprises, the govemrnment in  over such refunds In the corresponding period of fiscal  SRO 417 (1)t2000 for GST refunds would have been
combination with the banking sector has  year 2000101.                                        established.
established an Export Finance Guarantee                                                    . To reduce the anti-export bias the govemment will have
Facility                                                                                      eliminated the duties on polyester and other crtical inputs
used by textie   r



Annex B
Page 2 of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                            SAC II - Prior Actions                                   Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                                (Board June 2002)                                      _ (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
BANKING AND FINANCIAL      *  In pneparation for privatization, the  *  The restructuring of the three nationalized commercial banks  *  The restructunng of the three nationalized commercial
SECTOR REFORM                 Cabinet has approved restructuring      has been initiated. Six hundred and fifty branches have been  banks will have been completed. More than eight hundred
programs for the three large nationalized  closed and eight thousand staff have taken voluntary retirement.  branches would have been closed and more than twenty
comrerdal banks based on a significant  *  As part of the restructuring non-performing financial institutions,  five thousand staff taken voluntary retirement.
Improve sector govemance      reduction in personnel and unproductive  the country's larsgest non-bank institution the National Finance  *  The govemment will have brought to the point of sale the
through restructunng,         branches,                               Development Corporation has been closed through a merger  three large nationalized commercial banks (United Bank
pnvabgaton and             .  To strengthen bank supervision, the     with the state-owned National Bank of Pakistan.           Ud., Habib Bank Ltd., and National Bank of Pakistan). The
stpengthened                  BakigCopaiskcihsnengh
supervision.                  amendeto enorcecapital adequacy      .  To strengthen banking system regulations and enhance the  process would be launched by bnnging United Bank Ltd. to
ramesndlied wth intorernaptoal tadards.y  quality of monetary policy, the non-core functions of the State  tepoint of sale in FY03.
rabos In line with intemational standards.  Bank of Pakistan (SBP) have been devolved to a newly created  *  The govemment will have divested all its minority
The govemment has divested 8 percent of  SBP Banking Services Corporation.                        shareholdings in Muslim Commercial Bank (9 percent) and
its shares in Muslim Commercial Bank  *  To improve finandal sector govemance and strengthen the  Allied Commercial Bank (49 percent).
and reduced n ts mino.ty shares to 15   banking system, the 1997 Loan Recovery Act has been    *  The govemment will have carried out the restructuring effort
percent.                                amended to facilitate foreclosure of bank collateral.    for non-bank state-owned financial institutions (DFIs) with a
*  The government has divested 10 percent of its shares in the  view to close those that have not been restructured
National Bank of Pakistan, and further divested its minority  successfully.
shares of Muslim Commercial Bank from 15 to 9 percent.  *  Continued strengthening of prudential regulations by
increasing minimum capital requirement for banks and
financial institutions and strengthen capacity of the regulator
to enforce regulations.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR         *  To eliminate distortions and promote  *  The federal and provincial govemments have removed all  *   The goverment will have carried an analysis of existing
REFORM                        agriculture exports, unit value of      restridctions to inter-district and/or inter-province transport of  rural polices with a focus on land markets.
export norms for agriculture products   agriculture commodities including wheat.               *  To promote quality in production and foster exports, the
have been elimimated, and raw cotton  *  The provincial goverments have removed all restrictions to the  federal and provincial govenments will have (a) established
exports have been liberalized,          free movement of certified seeds throughout each province,  a national grading and standardization system for cotton; (b)
*  The subsidy on wheat has been reduced  *                                ~~~~~~~~~~~liberalized the sugar market by eliminating restrictions for
The subsidy on wheat has been reduced a  The govemment has liberalized the imports and exports of all  the merger and consolidation of sugar mills, and removed
by lee imilanrto international pcr ces. ntfpieat  agriculture products.                           zoning requirements for sale/purchase of sugar cane; and
leelportsahave bnee an authoried, y hetanto                                                      (c) reduce the role of government in wheat marketing.
exports have been authonzed, yet not on
a permanent basis                                                                              *  The federal and provincial govemments will have
accelerated the pace of institutional reforms in irigation to
enhance efficiency of water use, reduce subsidies to
operation and maintenance, and regulate ground water use.
The govemment will have given priority to the construction
of the national drainage system.



Annex B
Page 3 of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                           SAC II - Prior Actions                                   Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                               (Board June 2002)                                   (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
NATURAL GAS SECTOR         *  A new Gas Regulatory Authority (GRA)  *  (a) A new Gas Pricing Framework for PPL gas has been  * As a part of the program to develop a sound gas pricing
REFORM                        has been established.                  established, wthich will bring the PPL well-head price up to,  framework: (a) the govemment will have rationalized
.and maintain it at, a level equal to fifty percent (50%h) of the  access to the lifeline rate for domestic consumers to
Adoption of a new gas pncing framework  'ell-head price fixed from time to time for the Zone IlIl gas  Improve its targeting to the poor; and (b) the Cabinet
To enhance sector             providing for: (i) the setting of well-head  fields as defined in the government's Petroleum    vill have approved a mechanism to include all
development through tariff    prices based on intemational crude (or  Exploration & Production Policy dated May 1, 2001, through  feedstock gas subsidies to the fertilizer industry in the
reform, privatization, and   fuel) oil prices; (ii) the semi-annual  successive semi-annual adjustments over a period of five  budget. Implementation to start with the budget for
improved regulatory          revision of consumer prices; (iii) the  years; and (b) the first adjustment of PPL gas prices under  FY04.
environment.                  phasing out of subsidies over a three-year  such Framevvork has taken place and Is reflected In  * As a part of the program to develop a sound gas pricng
sector and aeliepinelratonto the ferdo lizer  consumer prices.                                  framework, the govemment will have established transport
consumers; and (iv) the phased      * The govemment has issued an ordinance to establish the Oil  and distribution charges policy based on volumetric basis in
ad'ustment of consumer prioes, so as to  and gas Regulatory Authonty.                           a manner that encourages efficiency and is not related to
rect the cost of service.                                                                       guaranteed retums.
*  The Oil and Gas Reaulatory Authoritv (OGRA) will have
adjustment of 14.4 percent under said                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~been made operational through the notification of its Tariff
adjustment of 14.4 percent under said                                                           adLcnigRls
new gas pricing framevork for the                                                               and Licensing Rules.
semester ending June 30, 2001.
PETROLEUM SECTOR           * The Govemment has established a      * (a) A formula has been adopted by the govemment under  *  Continued implementation of automatic fortnightly
REFORM                        system of quarterly adjustments of     which retail and ex-refinery prices of all petroleum products  price adjustments of petroleum products in line with
petroleum product prices at the        are based upon intemational prices and adjusted          intemational prices.
consumer level in line with            automatically on a fortnightly basis; and (b) since July 1
To increase efficiency and   intemational price movements.           2001, with the exception of the period comprising March 15  ehe     comet      and efficiency i the oil sector
growth through deregulation,             .to May 15, 2002, all scheduled price adjustments under the                         the government will have: (a) set the ex-refinery prices
market liberalization, and  * The funmace oil market has been       formula have taken place.                                 of all petroleum products on the basis of import (or
enhanced competition         dliberalizafon of imports, transport and  .  The import of oil products has been liberalized with refineres  process the govemment vA ill have reviened and
prices through the production and      and the oil marketing companies authorzed to import their  initiated reforms to phase out the current system of
distribution chain.                    requirements direcdly.                                   guaranteed retums to the refineries.
* The market for LPG has been          *  The transport of petroleum products has been deregulated for  *  The govemment will have brought to the point of sale the
deregulated by liberalizing prices     secondary markets. Prices allowed to differ across some  main companies in the sector: Oil and Gas Development
through the production and             geographical areas.                                      Corporation and Pakistan State Oil.
distribution chain from Oct 1, 2000.  *  Subsidies to the refineries are being made transparent and are  *  The govemment will have developed intemationally-
*  The privatization of Sui South LPG plant  provided through the national budget.                 accepted standards for petroleum product specifications
has been completed.                 * The privabzation of Sui North LPG Plant has been completed.  and will have announced a mandatory time-frame for their
*  The use of low quality RON 80 gasoline  *  The bidding for the privabzation working interest in nine oil fields  unleadeo gaso lner and imis to the supur content in doesel
To protect the environment    has been discontinued,                 has been completed.                                     t    aiu     f05pret
through adoption of cleaner                                                                                                   t   aiu     f05pret
better quality products.                                          * As a part of the program to improve the quality of petroleum
products, unleaded gasoline has been made available
throughout seventy percent of the country.
I     _     _     _     _  L     _     _      _      _      _ I   I    _      _     _      _     _     _      _     _



Annex B
Pag e4of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                          SAC _ i - Prior Actions                                 Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                              (Board June 2002)                                   (Fiscal Years 2003-2005
POWER SECTOR REFORM       * As a part of it WAPDA's financial       W Wth a view to completng the corpor6on of WAPDA: o     The government wi I have maintained full adherence to
restructuring, US$ 650 million of      (a) the transfer of staff in Basic Pay Scales (BPS) 1-16 from  its financial improvement plan for WAPDA and it
outstanding debt service liabilities to GOP  WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC, and the DISCOs, has  croaescesr.Ti          ol edt     civmn
To establish a competitive   were converted into GOP                  n cmplet    (b vid opertng linss h       bee          of the financial target of a debt service coverage rato of
electric power system     *IlentioofIssued by NEPRA to the DISCOs; and (c) the principles for                               1.2 at the end of FY03, and 1.5 at end FY04. The power
consisting of privately-owned,  * mplementabon of 4.9 percent tariff  Supplementary Business Transfer Agreements, providing  sector financing would also be fully consistent with the
financially viable, and      increase in December 2000 and 4.5      for the transfer of assets and liabilities, other rights and  sed macroeconomic                vAthwthe
efficiently operated         percent in March 2001 to help WAPDA    obligatons from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC and the   agreed macroeconomic framework.
companies.                   reach targets of its financial         DISCOs, respecively, have been approved by the       *  The transformation of WAPDA's power vAng into
restructuring plan.                    govemment                                               autonomous companies under professional
*  A formula-based automatic fuel      * (a) A financial Improvement plan has been agreed between  management through corporatizaton will have been
adjustment clause for quarterly        the Borrower and WAPDA, settng out the measures needed  completed by end December 2002. As a part of this
adjustments has been notified. Two     for WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC and the DISCOs to become    process: (a) Supplementary Business Transfer
adjustments undertaken under these    financially viable, including tariff and non-tariff adjustments  Agreements would be implemented; (b) NEPRA would
provisions.                            which vwll enable WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC and the       have issued licnese to the GENCOs and the NTDC; and
*  Ministry of Water and Power has        DISCOs to achieve, under a reasonable forecast of       (c) final transfer prices would have been approved.
issued new tariff setting policles to  revenues and expenditures, an overall debUservice    *  The govemment will have brought KESC, FESCO and
NEPRA, that will allow for             coverage ratio of 1.2 by the end of FY03; and (b) pursuant  JAMCO to the point of sale in FY03 and started
to such plan, a tariff increase of Rs. 0.045 per kilowatt hour  implementation of the follow-up plan to further pnvate sector
.  Differential tariffs for KESC and for  on account of the fuel adjustment cost deternined by  participation in distribution and generation-including
each of the DISCOs.                 NEPRA as at end of March 2002, together with an interim  privatization of remaining DISCOs and GENCOs.
*  Reduction of cross subsidies        structural tariff increase of Rs. 0.08 per kilowatt hour has   The govemment will have announced a strategy and
between consumer categories,        been introduced effective May 15, 2002.                initiated the implementation of a phased program towards
except for lifeline rates.                                                                  the introduction of a competitive wholesale electricity
.  Establishment of formula-based                                                              market.
multi year tariff adjustments.                                                          *   NEPRA will have completed the regulatory framework by
issuing regulations and guidelines pertaining to, but not
limited to, performance standards, revised system for the
automatic fuel adjustment clause, and introduction of multi-
year tariffs.
:-                                       --n -S>'-.s X - .N'e X -   . . - . . ,PILLAR 2: IMPROVING GOVERNANCE M.  - . ,  . -
EFFICIENT AND             . To document the economy and broaden  * A medium-term reform strategy and acton plan for CBR  * Accelerated implementation of the medium term program of
EQUITABLE MOBILIZATION       the tax base a tax survey and registration  has been approved by the government, providing for a  CBR reforms. As a part of that program:
OF RESOURCES                 drive has been launched. First two     modern, progressive, effective and credible organization for
phases based on the twenty-six largest  optimizing revenue by providing quality service and    *   CBR will have completed Its human resource
cities completed leading to updated    promoting compliance with tax laws.                         audit,   bshed  on itsoreom mendations
To improve tax policy and tax  documentation of about 1.3 million   Th ucinlrognzto         fCRhsbe       opeesetbimplementedwua reourmen preforms.Itwilcav
administration to increase   businesses and individuals and the  *ThfucinlrognztoofCRhsbecmptdassalsedewerimn,promne
revenues and improve         registration of 120,000 new tax payers.  prescribed by the recently approved medium term strategy.  assessment, training, and promotion procedures,
regstrtio of120000newtaxpayrs. o Anew Income Tax Ordinance based on self-assessment,     or programs. A new performance-based pay scale
govemance.                .  To broaden tax base and achieve a      minimal exemptions, and simplified and more equitable rates  rAllt havg of pereonel bl havemstaThed
more equitable distribution of the tax  has been promulgated.rihsznofpsnelvlhaetred
burden, agricultural income Is beingCR                                                                    lhaestbiedocmeniaorad
brought into the tax net. The       & To increase the efficiency of the tax system the GST has been  *  CBR will have estabipshed outcome indicators and
Provinces have introduced a two-tier   extended to agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, and non-  This Information w ll be shared with the public on
agricultural income tax with acreage-  essential pharmaceuticals.                                  a regular basis.
based land tax and Income tax for   * To inaease the efficiency of the tax system the GST compliance
large farms.                           requirements have been extended to all traders with annual
tum-over in excess of Rs. 5 million.



Annex B
Page 5 of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                          SAC II - Prior Actions                                  Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                              (Board June 2002)                                   (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
* To increase the effilciency of the tax                                                          *   CBR will have initiated the implementation of an
system, the GST has been extended to                                                              information technology based system of tax
services, which were subject to excise                                                             assessment and audit.
taxes, and to some agriculture Inputs.                                                         .   A Large Tax Payer Unit will have been established in
Karachi and then extended to other large commercial
centers.
EFFICIENT AND             * To improve quality of the public     * To improve the quality of the public investment program: (a)  * To improve the quality and the transparency of the public
ACCOUNTABLE USE OF           investment program the process of project  the Planning Commission's Chief Economist signs-off on all  investment program: (a) the Planning Commission will have
RESOURCES                    approval has been strengthened. All    project appraisals submited for the app.oval of the Central  prepared summary Project Information Documents of the
proposals subject to the scrutiny of the  Development Working Party the Executive Committee of the  most important projects in the investment programs and
Planning Commission, the Central      National Economic Council; (b) progress reports of project  made them available to the public; and (b) make public the
To strengthen expenditure    Development Working Party, and final   implementation are being prepared on a semi-annual basis; and  semi-annual reports of progress in project implementation.
mntmls nnd imnmnvA thA      O2nnjbh.the. P'.,fh,". r-of    W        , h    .;i-     -                    -      thre-       -                  - 
aty of the  r-NatiOnal Ecnomic ui.                        ^        year-                                                      t   a 1ng plan foram ium tem b dget frameet or Yu an years eyon  i nave
quality of the expeniture  the  nal  year-rolling plan for a edium term budget frmbeen preparedpunderndarmoreodetailedldmediummtermmbudget
program.                  * To improve expenditure programming by  * The federal budget for FY02 has been prepared within a  framework.
increasing predictability in budget    medium term budget framework.
releases a 'New system of financial  * The federal and the provincial budgets of Sindh and NWFP for
controls and budgeting' has been       FY03 are being prepared within a medium termn budget
implemented since July 2000           framework.
To improve public financial
management through        *  To separate the public accounting and  *  The govemment has implemented the separation of the audit  * The federal and provincial govemments wvill have
improvements in accounting   auditing functions The goveRment has   and accounting functions. The accounting function is now under  achieved full reconciliation of expenditures and
and audits,                  issued: (a) an Ordinance defining the  the purview of the CGA.                                 rvne     naqatrybss
functions, povers and terms and                                                                revenues on a quarterty basis.
conditions of service of the Auditor  * The CGA has established a short and medium term program of
General of Pakistan; and (b) an       reforms to improve reconciliation, reduce unidentified  *  The federal govemment will have achieved a sIgnificant
Ordinance establishing a new office of  expenditures, and strengthen intemal controls. Reconciliation of  reduction in unidentified expenditures at end FY02
the Controller General of Accounts    revenues and expenditures are dose to 100% in federal   (when compared to FY01) and reduced unidentified
(CGA).                                 govemment and all provinces, except Punjab.            expenditures to no more than 0.1% of GDP at the end
*  To Improve the quality and reporting of  e The CGA has established systems to improve reliability and  FY03.
the public accounts the President has  Umeliness of accounts by: (a) eliminating settlement accounts;  .  The Proportion of govemment transactions under new
approved the Revised form, Principles  and (b) requiring daily bank reconciliations.          modemized and computerized accounting system will have
and Methods of Accounting for the                                                             reached 80% by end FY03 and 100% by end FY05.
Fedesrion and the Provinces
prescribed by the Auditor General.                                                         .  At the end of FY05, the timeliness and accuracy of federal
* To oversee the preparation and                                                                 and provincial accounts will allow for fully on-Ume reconciled
dissemination of timely reconciled                                                            reports.
expenditure data, fiscal monitoring
committees have been established at
the federal and provincial level. The
preparaton and dissemination of such
data at the federal level was completed
for the first semester of FY 2000101.
*  The govemment has established       * The provincial ad hoc Public Accounts Committees have
To promote efficiency in the  federal and provincial ad-hoc Public  opened up their proceedings to the press.            * The federal PAC Accounts Committee vill have
use of resources through     Accounts Committees (PAC), and      * The federal PAC has completed and made public the review of  completed the review of all outstanding Audit Reports
fiscal transparency and      opened hearings of the federal PAC to  the 1996/97 Audit Reports and initiated review of the reports for  (FY98, FY 99, and FY 00).
external oversight           the press.                             FY00, FY99, and FY98 with a view to dear the backlog in these
reviews by end-October 2002.



Annex B
Page 6 of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                           SAC _I- Prior Actions                                    Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                               (Board June 2002)                                   (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
* The FY01 Public Audit Report has been carried in a timely
manner, with increased attention to the audit of systemic  * A starting with the FY04 Audit report, all Audit Reports will
problems. It has been released and made public in March 2002.  have been submitted to the legislature no later than six
months after the end a FY
To promote the efficiency in                                                                                               .  Starting in FY04, and based on audit reports of FY03, the
the use of resources through                                                                                                  govemment will have initiated the tracking and monitonng of
more effectve public                                                                                                          cash recoveries mandated by the PAC and of the
procurement.                                                                                                                  percentage of Auditors General recommendations
*  The Procurement Regulatory Authority Ordinance           approved by govemment.
[Ordinance No.XXII of 20021 has been Issued, with a view to
regulating the procurement of goods, services and works  *  The Pakistan Procurement Regulatory Authority will
by the public sector                                     have completed the revision and amended (as needed)
all rules, regulations, and administradve orders
pertaining to procurement at the federal level. A new
Procurement Law will have been submitted to
Parliament
e During FY04, one third (33%) of the national public
procurement (all federal govemment procurement) will
have been carried out under modem rules and regulations.
In addition, defense procurement will also have been carried
out under these rules.
* During FY05, about one half (50%) of the national public
procurement (all federal govemment and autonomous
federal agencies) will have been carried out under revised
modem rules and regulations a new Procurement Law. In
addition defense procurement will also have been carried
out under these rules.
CML SERVICE REFORM         * The govemment amended the Federal    *  To improve performance and reduce corruption the Civil Service  *  The government vill have continued with the
Public Service Commission (FPSC)       Act has been amended to enable the govemment to          implementation of Its program of civil service reforms
Ordinance, so as to enhance FPSC's     prematurely retire civil servants who are found to be inefficient  by: (a) continued implementation of the Cabinet-
To improve the performance    independence, Increase Its financial   and have completed 20 years of service.                  approved program to right-size and Improve the skill-
Tofh cimp sroveite bauooyexndIsrlintemix of the federal civil service; (b) carrying out the
hencivil serviceby           auton,omy, texpan bits roe n the d   *  To improve the quality and performance of higher level staff,  second phase of pay and pension refonrs. As a part of
retrng integrity,f auonomy    rerimtmadefnethof pubicserats,wic and  examination requirements have been established as a      this program the Cabinet wAll have approved the
and adoption of modemnali outside din purview                        prerequisite for promotions (to grades 17, 19 and 20).   establishment of a contributory pension fund for new
practices.                 *   h  PChsiiiae      eiwo l              The govemment has implemented initial phase of right-sizing  enrns and the monetization of a number of
appn The FPSC has initiated review of all  program of the Federal Secretarat by eliminating vacant posts  allowances Into salaries.
established procedures. Unqualified     and placing redundant personnel in a surplus pool.   .  The provincial and district governments will have defined
appointments are being terminated.  * The first phase of the pay and pension reform scheme for  arrangements for transferring responsibilities for staff
. To improve performance and reduce  the federal govemment's civilian and military personnel has  recruitment and personnel management from the provinces
corruption the Civil Service Act has been  been implemented through: (a) the revision of pay scales;  to the distrct level.
amended to enable the government to    and (b) the rationalization of pension benefits.      * The govemment will have continued the implementation of
prematrelretire civil servants  oare                                                            programs to strengthen merit-based recruitment, and
prematurely hetire av nd wh o                                                                   promotions and revamp training programs.
found to be ineffcient and have                                                .___________________________



Annex B
Pag e7of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                           SAC II- P       ions                                     Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                               (Board June 2002)                                   (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
completed 25 years otservice. A
Removal from Service (Special Powers)                                                           A strategy to strengthen the professionalism of the civil
Ordinance has been issued to                                                                    service in key areas of economic and financial management
expeditiously remove from the servit e                                                          will have been agreed and implementation started by
officers involved in corruption.                                                                cregon of Economist Cadre.
* The govemment has established a
Committee to review Pay and Benefits
Reforms. The Committee has completed
analysis and recommendations leading to
broad based civil service reforms.
DEVOLUTION                *   Following a consultation process    * The Local Govemment Ordinances to reconstruct and regulate  *  The govemment will have carried through with the
launched in Apnl 2000, the Devolution  local govemments were Dromulaated on Auaust 2001 in each of  continued imDlementation of programs of canacitv building
Implement devolution to       Plan was promulgated on August 14,     the four provinces.                                     with special focus on establishing clear budgetary
improve govemance in          2000.* The local govemment s have started their functions with their                           procedures and improved financial management.
service delivery                                                     own budget under transition arrangements with the provincial  *  Provincial Finance Awards (one per province) defining rules
govemments.                                              for inter-govemmental fiscal relations will have been
established.
* The local govemment will have started preparing and
implementing their own budgets from FY03.
*  The federal, provincial, and district govemments will have
agreed and defined measurable indicators to monitor the
performance of local govemments and their effectiveness in
______________________;____'_i_R3_1fP_GH_MAH.DE_LOPfE_.__    service delivery.
4~~~   ,.-i          t     'PLLAR3:" IMPROVING'HUMANI.DEVELOPMENT                           -.~                        -.
POLICY, FISCAL, AND       *   The govemment has launcnea a small  *  The FY02 budget allocations of the federal, provincial, and = es hedea cer p incal framew to fAnc the
MONITORING                    works program (Kushal Pakistan) to    local govemments for human development and pro-poor       established a clear fiscal framework te reuar fhe
FRAMEWORK                     provide employment and basic services to  expenditures under the I-PRSP have been increased, in the  funds.
the poor.                              aggregate, to Rs. 164 billion or4.4% of GDP.
Increase the share of pro-  *  The government has launched a direct  *  A National PRSP Implementation Commitee has been  *  In the area of monitoring and evaluation of the PRSP
poor expenditures with        cash-transfer program ( Food Support   established in the Borrower's Ministry of Finance (MOF) to  the govemment will have: (a) completed the action plan
monioring and evaluation      Program') targeted to 200,000 poor     oversee the implementation of the Borrower's anti-poverty  and initiated implementation of a program to Improve
mechanisms to track           families -1.2 million people.          strategy as reflected in the I-PRSP and to help build   the monitoring of its health and education intermediate
progress                   o  The government has strengthened the    consensus In support of the full PRSP under preparation,  outcome Indicators; and (b) improved the quarterly
Islamic-based Zakat charty program that  together with a PRSP Secretadit to coordinate the actions  analyses of performance In IPRSP expenditures In
provides cash transfers to the most    directed by the National PRSP Implementation Committee,  conjunction with the provincial governments.
vulnerable groups in society.          and as part of this process: (a) a national poverty line and
methodology have been established; and (b) intermediate
health and education outcome Indicators have been
formulated and are being evaluated, with a view to
preparing an action plan not later than September 2002 to
improve the monitoring tools established therefore
* The govemment has established as a part of the I-PRSP an
expenditure tracking mechanism for pro-poor (or l-PRSP
expenditures). Quarterly expenditure reports are being
prepared and disseminated to the public.



Annex B
Page 8 of 9
SAC I - Prior Actions                          SAC II - Prior Actions                                  Follow-up Actions
(Board June 2001)                              (Board June 2002)                                  (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
EDUCATION                 .  The federal government with the     * The consolidated budget allocations of the federal, provincial,  *  The consolidated federal, provincial, and district
Increase enrollments, narrow  participation of the provinces has    and district government budgets for education have increased to  govemments budgets would have increased the share of
enderegaps, anro   irenase ndeveloped a comprehensive Education    Rs 72.5 billion or 2.0 percent of GDP.                  education expenditures in FY04 in line with
quality of education,        Sector Reform Strtegy.                                                                         recommendations from Public Expenditure Review and
costing of reforms under the PRSP.
* To imrove te deilely ofservics  *  Pusuant o the ducatin Sectr ReforTPro rm:vea)enThe overnmntewilphaveexpande lpiclp-pvaat
and the use of scarce resources the  *Pursuanttothe Educaon SecorRefo       Program: (a)       partnerships through restructurng of the National Education
roicsand theu eocrceresources tr e     addrtional budgetary resources for education have been  Foundation.
urvndertakng thefollowing actins       directed at the provincial, territorial and district povemment
undertakingthe follovAng actions:     blevels; (b) a National Education Assssment Initative has  .  The govemment wll have established a system for
been launched; and (c) school rehabilitaton, teacher    collecting reliable data, including outcome-based indicators,
*  systems for teacher absenteeism      training and girls schooling and feeding programs at the  at the national, provincial and district levels.
and enforcement of sanctions. The    federal, proWincial, and local govemment level, have been  *  Continued implementation of the Education Reform Strategy
second largest province (Sindh) has  expanded.                                              and monitoring of education outcomes.
initiated program to re-certify   * To increase public financing of private education, the federal  *  The govemment will have completed the development of
workers to Identify those hired      govemment has approved a new charter for the National  the National Education Assessment Initiative at the federal
without the necessary qualifications.  Education Foundation.                                and provincial level. The first assessment will have been
.  Hiring of new teachers largely being  * The Cabinet has approved a national strategy to promote  conducted in FY05.
conducted through contract hiring.   private sector participation in education.
* Intensified efforts to devolve
management of non-salary budgets
to the school level through parent-
teacher associations or teachers.
* Rationalizing of investment
programs In all provinces. Focus in
finishing ongoing school-building
programs before InitiaUng new ones.
HEALTH                    *  Family Planning and matemal and child  *  Pursuant to the National Health Policy: (a) an Expanded  *  The consolidated federal, provincial, and district
health care programs has been          Immunization Program for children has been launched; (b)  govemments budgets will have increased the share of
strengthened through increases in female  the Lady Health Workers Program has been strengthened  health and population expenditures in the FY04 in line with
Improve the health status of  health staff mostty through the Lady  through the appointment of an additional 10,000 Lady    recommendations from Public Expenditure Review and
the population through the   Health Workers. To reduce maternal     Health Workers; (c) the Tuberculosis Control Program has  costing of reforms under the PRSP.
expansion and improved       morbidity and mortality, targeted      been expanded; and (d) a national strategic HIVIAIDS  *  The accelerated implementation of the Expanded Program
quality of preventive and    programs in 20 rural distridcts are    prevention program has been formulated for Imminent     of Immunization for children will have yielded an increase in
public health systems.       underway.                              launching.                                             the coverage rate of at least 5 percent per year through
*  Immunization programs have been                                                                FY05.
strengthened to achieve specific targets                                                    *  The govemment will have hired about 10,000 new Lady
over the next two years for (a) increase                                                       Health Workers per year to reach its target of 78,000
coverage of expanded immunization                                                              workers in FY03 and 100,00 workers reaching 100 million
program (EPI) for children 12-23 months                                                       women and children by FY05.
from 56% in 1999/00 to 75% in 2003/04,
(b) increase in population with access to                                                   * The govemment will have launched the implementation of
tuberculosis control from 12% to 30%, (c)                                                     the expanded HIV/AIDS prevention program.
eliminate confirmed polio cases by the                                                      * Continued implementation of the National Health Policy and
end of 2002.                                                                                   monitoring of health outcomes.



Annex B
_______________________________  ______________________________________________PPage99oof 
SAC I - Prior Actions                              SAC II - Prior Actions                                      Follow-up Actions
.            (Board June 2001)            |                     (Board June 2002)                                       (Fiscal Years 2003-2005)
.___.   ___. ___-  ___. _                          PILLAR 4: IMPROVING INCOME GENERATING OPPORTUNITIES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
SOCIAL PROTECTION
To help reduce poverty,     *   Implementation of smallworks program  *  The financing of the off-budget Zakat program has been    *  The govemment will have established monitoring and
develop human capital, and      (Kushal Pakistan)) to provide employment  increased from Rs. 8 billion to Rs. 10 billion to reach more than  evaluabion system for Zakat and strengthened the
reduce gender imbalances        and basic services to the poor.          2 million beneficiares.                                      monitoring system for the Food Support Program.
through more active public  *   Launching of a direct cash-transfer                                         ng and evaluation of      Expansion of program based on lessons leamed from
policies.                      program (¶ff   upr     rorr)telood Support Program'truh)hr party surveys. The first                    evaluation.
targeted to 200,000 poor families -1.2    srehabencdutdoapitbiis by the University of
milo people.                                                                                         The government WIll have established monitoring and
To develop the govenment's  *   Stengthening of the Islamic-based Zakat        .                                                      evaluabon systems for the Kushal program. Expansion of
capacity to prepare and        charity program that provides cash     *  The Pakistan Kushal program has been strengthened and it s   program based on lessons leamed from evaluation.
implement these policies.      transfers to the most vulnerable groups in  budget allocation increased to Rs. 15 billion or about 12 percent
society.                                  ui oiie uuulify s pubiic investment program.             *  Tne govemment will have strengthened the legal and
*  Establishment of a Micro-Credit Bank to   The -credit program of the Micro-Credit Bank has been       regulatory environment for micro-finance institutions and
service the poor, especially in rural areas.  strengthened. Branches have been expanded to 30 (out of 100)  expansion of coverage of successful existing programs.
disticts.



Annex C
Page I of 9
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Background
1.    Pakistan entered the new century with public debt on an unsustainable path, and external debt
indicators worse than most HIPC countries. While there were several attempts at adjustment over the
1990s, Yet frequent changes in government weakened the formulation and implementation of critical
reforms, especially in the area of govemance. The fiscal problem was not solved. Monetary policy was
tight enough to prevent the fiscal deficit exploding into high inflation, but one consequence of this was
the maintenance of a relatively strong exchange rate, which meant that an important part of the debt
buildup was external. The liberalization of repressed interest rates also raised the cost of servicing the
public debt and thus contributed to the emergence of unsustainable debt dynamics. The realization that a
debt problem was building up combined with unease about institutional weaknesses eroded governmental
credibility and hence the chance that reforrns would be rewarded with renewed investment. Growth
declined and extemal vulnerability increased, leading eventually to a balance of payments crisis in 1998.
2.     When the current government took office in October 1999, its most immediate challenge was to
manage a very vulnerable macroeconomic position with low reserves, the absence of an active IMF
program, and a severe deterioration in the terms of trade on account of raising oil prices. The fiscal
deficit was contained through the implementation of several tax measures including the adoption of
quarterly price adjustments on petroleum product prices in line with rising international prices. A
significant effort was made to reduce the current account deficit largely through an aggressive program of
foreign exchange purchases in the parallel market. Favorable performance of the agricultural sector
helped to boost real GDP growth to 3.9 percent for 1999/00, and notwithstanding increases in domestic
petroleum products prices, the average rate of inflation declined to 3.6 percent.
3.     Concurrent to its stabilization efforts, the government launched a program of reforms to address
the core issue of macroeconomic sustainability. With a public debt to GDP ration of about 100 percent
and net present value of external debt in relation to exports of about 260 percent, Pakistan stood little
chance of attaining public debt sustainability. Yet the government was aware that at the very least
moving the debt dynamics to a favorable downward trajectory would be a very important achievement.
To that end, it developed a program of reforms and macroeconomic policies to reduce the fiscal deficit,
increase exports, and reallocate expenditures to support -within possibilities-a stronger public
investment program focusing in high-return human and physical capital expenditures.
4.     Many of these policies were reflected in the budget for 2000/01 which formned the basis for an
agreement with the IMF on a US$600 million ten-month Stand-By arrangement approved on November
2000. The stabilization program was based on fiscal reforms to reduce the fiscal deficit, and the adoption
of a flexible exchange rate exchange, which together with tighter monetary policy could contribute,
together with substantial exceptional financing, to a much needed build-up of reserves to US$1.6 billion.
5.     Performance under the Stand-By was satisfactory and the program was successfully completed in
September 2001. With the exception of the target for Central Board Revenue (CBR) revenue, for which a
waiver had previously been granted, all quantitative performance criteria were observed. Developments
over the last months of fiscal year 2000/01 confirmed the negative impact of the drought on economic
growth, but brought also better-than-expected inflation, external, and monetary outcomes. The drought
severely affected agricultural output, so despite a stronger-than-expected recovery in the industrial sector,
real GDP (at factor cost) growth was limited to 2.7 percent. Inflation slowed to 2.5 percent in the year
through June 2001, and 4.4 percent for the annual average, better than programmed. Strong export



Annex C
Page 2 of 9
performance growth (9 percent) resulted in a better-than expected trade balance, which together with
higher-than projected workers' remittances limited the current account (excluding grants) deficit to 3.3
percent of GDP in fiscal year 2000/2001, compared to 3.6 percent in the previous year.
Table 1: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
Est.        Projections
199899  199910   2000/01  2001IM2  2002/03  2003D04
Ouiput and Prices                                                  (Annual changes in percent)
RealGDP at factor cost                                 4.2      3.9      2.7      3.3     4.7      5.2
ConsumerPrices (p.a.)                                  5.7      3.6      4.4      3.0      3.9     4.0
Savings and Imnestment                                                 (ln percent of GDP)
'Current account bdance (excL offlcidtrnsfers)         -4.6    -3.6     -3.3     -2.3     -2.7     .2.1
Gross nationd savings                                119      13.5     12.8     15.4     15.4     15.S
Private                                            15.0     17.2     14.6     15.2     14.6    143
Gross capitaformation                                15.6     15.6     14.7     15.2     16.6    17.5
Private                                            11.9     12 4     12 0     1 1.8    13.0    13.6
Exports fo.b. ( ennudlpercantage change inUS$)       -10.7      8.8      9.0     -0.1      76      8.0
Imports fo.b. (annual precentage change in US$)       -6.7     -0.1      S.9     -3.8      7.3     6.6
End-period gross official reserves (J1$ 5milion)     1,672     908     1,681    2,797    3,677   4,555
(Inweeks of imports of goods and nonfactor services'   7.7      3.9      7.5     11.6     14.4     17.0
Public Finances
Budgetary balance                                     -6,0     -6.5     -5 3     -5.7     -4.2     -3.3
Budgeteay balance (including grants)                  -6.0     -6.4     -4.0     -3.3     -2.9     -2.5
Piimay balance                                         1.3      11       1.5      1.2      2.1      2.4
Budgetary revenue                                     16.2     16.5     15.7     16.9     17.3     17.3
TexRevenue                                           13,3     12.8    12 8      13.2    13.9     14.1
Budgetery expenditure                                 22.4     23.0     21.0     22.7     21.5     20.6
Interest                                              7.3      7.6     6.8      7.0      6.3      5.7
Defense                                               4.9      4.7     4.5      4.7      4 2      4.0
Defense (excluding pensions)                          4.2      4.0     3.8      4.0      3.5      3.3
Education                                             1.7      1.7      1.6     2.0      2.0      2.0
Headth                                                0.5      0.6      0.5     0.7      0.7      0.7
Development                                           3.0      2.8     2.2      3.6      3.6      4.0
Net public debt                                       93.6     91.6    100.9     94.2     90.5     83.6
Netpublic domestic debt                               42.3     429      43.1     41.9     38.4     35.1
Expendnure firpoverty reduction (I-PRSP)
I-PRSP total                                                    3.6      3.4      4.4      4.7      5.1
Sources: GoP, IMF and World B1ank estimates.
The Three Year Macroeconomic Framework
6.       The macroeconomic framework for 2001/02 is based on a preliminary assessment of the impact
of September 11 and is highly dependant on the assumption that the impact of current conflict in



Annex C
Page 3 of 9
Afghanistan and the escalation of tensions with India will have been contained by end-March 2002.
Compared with pre-September 11 projections (see Box below), the framework for 2001/02 includes a
downward revision in U.S. dollar export growth (from 7.6 percent to -0.1 percent), and real GDP growth
from 4 percent to 3.3 percent. The latter reflects a weaker manufacturing sector as this has been the area
where the impact of September 11 has been the strongest.
The Economic Impact of September 11
The Pakistan economy had started showing signs of recovery toward the end of FYOI and the beginning of FY02. This
optimistic outlook changed in the context of the deepening global recession and events following the September II terrorist
attacks on the United States. With increased vulnerability to acts of terrorism and risks of being hit while plying in the war
zone, shipping lines handling Pakistan's exports and imports increased their freight rates and have had to pay war-risk
insurance premiums. As a result, the cost of both exports from and imports to Pakistan has increased. Cancellation of a
number of cargo flights by some foreign airlines, departure of expatriates and suspension of visits by foreign buyers (all due to
Pakistan being in the war zone) disrupted the normal trade flows and dampened the outlook for foreign direct investment. The
privatization process that was about to take off was interrupted. The short term impact of these events have been felt in all
fronts-overall growth, fiscal through reduction in tax revenues especially on account of lower imports, and on increased
exceptional financing needs.
The Economic Impact of the September 11
FY02 Esdmates
Pre-Sept 11        Post-Sept 11
Real GDPfc growth                                                   4.0                 3.3
Publc Finance (percent of GDP)
Tax revenue                                                        13.5                13.2
Expenditure                                                        218                 22.2
of which: Poverty related                                          3.6                 4.4
Dcfense (incl. pensions)                                   4.3                 4.7
Budget balance (cxcl. grants)                                      -4.9                -5.7
Budget balance (incl. grants)                                      -3.6                .3.3
Balance of Payments (USS million)
Total Exceptional Financing Requirement                          -5,451               4,028
Current account balance (excluding official transfers)         -1,860               -1,364
Current account balance (including official transfers)         -1,027                 127
Exports                                                        9,605               8,914
Imports                                                      -10,863              .9,780
Capital account balance with IMF fuid credit                   -3,431               -2,721
Change in reserves                                               -993               -1,434
Identified Finaacing                                              4,797               4,028
Private sector rescheduling                                     2,210                1,412
Privattzaton                                                      500                   0
Paris Club                                                        731                1,027
Multilateral assistance                                          1,356               1,589
World Bank                                                      615                 731
ADB                                                             473                 370
IMF stand-by                                                    268                 268
IMF PRGF                                                          0                 220
Sources GoP, IMF and World Bank staffestimates.
How Pakistan emerges from the environment precipitated by September II is uncertain. The lifting of sanctions and the
support of the intemational community provide renewed opportunities provided that Pakistan stays the course in
implementation of refomns. First, the favorable terms granted by the Paris Club for Pakistan's debt rescheduling and the
prospect (based on performance) of sustained IFI financing provide three years of breathing space to decisively implement the
reforms needed to restore growth. Second, Pakistan's renewed access to bilateral concessional or grant financing can help to
protect pro-poor expenditures during the fiscal consolidation. Third, the opportunity to build up reserves at a faster than
envisaged pace could help to accelerate private sector confidence and also provide the space for some easing of monetary
policy to reduce interest rates and stimulate growth.



Annex C
Page 4 of 9
7.     Growth. While not too ambitious, the growth rate envisaged over the three-year framework
leading to fiscal year 2003/04 represents a big increment from recent performance. The program
envisages a relatively rapid recovery of GDP growth rates from 3.3 percent in 2001/02 to 5.2 percent in
2003/04. Growth would be anchored on higher domestic (public) savings and investment of about 2
percent of GDP each over the three year program, and also a strong increase in the efficiency of
investments. Growth in Pakistan has been well below its potential for a decade as a result of low savings
mobilization, poor investment climate, political and economic uncertainty, inefficient public spending,
and poor governance. The achievement of the growth targets hinge on the timely implementation of
reforms to address these issues.
8.    Fiscal Adjustment.  The path of fiscal consolidation is appropriately ambitious to curb
unfavorable public debt dynamics. This is also essential to raise national savings in order to finance
higher private investment, as the government is appropriately cautious on prospects for higher private
savings. Over the three-year period the fiscal deficit is projected to decline from 5.3 percent of GDP in
2000/01 to 3.3 percent of GDP in 2003/04. Total public debt is expected to decline from 95.5 percent of
GDP in 2000/01 to 84.6 percent in 2003/04. The biggest reduction would be in domestic public debt that
would decline from about 43.1 percent of GDP to 35.1 percent of GDP helped by a growing primary
surplus that would reach 2.4 percent of GDP in 2003/04. These fiscal targets hinge largely upon the
realization of the projected revenie increase-the Achilles' heel of past fiscal adjustment experience.
9.    Fiscal consolidation is also accompanied by a substantial reorientation of public expenditure
towards development and social spending over the medium term. While current expenditure as a share of
GDP is projected to decrease over the medium-term, due mainly to declining interest payments and
defense spending, development expenditures under the Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) were
projected to increase from 2.2 percent of GDP in 2000/01 to 4 percent of GDP over the next three years,
and social and poverty-related expenditure to increase from 3.4 percent of GDP to at least 5.1 percent of
GDP during the same period. Higher expenditures for poverty reduction (and a higher deficit) could also
be accommodated in 2001/02 depending on the availability of grant financing.
10.   The strong inflow of grant financing (Table 3) has allowed government to revise its fiscal
framework for 2001/02. Of the roughly US$767 million in grants expected this fiscal year, about one
third are being directed to make up for the expected revenue losses that are result of the September 11
events (Table 4); one third are being directed to increase the budget allocations for high-priority social
sectors and anti-poverty program,,; and the remaining one third to build up govermment's cash balances to
reduce short-term debt liabilities. These said grants do not include support for military/security needs, as
these are being treated outside the budget.
11.   To accommodate the additional pro-poor expenditures, the fiscal deficit targel. for 2001/02
(excluding grants) has been increased from 5.3 to 5.7 percent of GDP. Notwithstanding this increase in
the budget allocations for pro-pocr expenditures, these remain disturbingly low by international standards.
The government is planning furtlher reorientation of public expenditure towards development and social
spending over the medium term as part of the preparation of the I-PRSP and on the basis of the revised I-
PRSP expenditures for this fiscal year. A critical issue, however, will be the continued availability of
grant financing through 2003/04.



Annex C
Page 5 of 9
Table 2: 1 PRSP Expenditure, 199912000 - 2001/2002
1999100  2000i01   2001102        1999t00  2000101   2001/02
Actual     Prav.   Budget         Actual     Prov.   Budget
(Ms. Billinx)                   (Percent of GDP)
Total                                        1144     1193      163.7           3.6       3.4       4.4
Current                                     88.3      93.9     108.2           2.8       2.7       2.9
Development                                 26.1      25.4      55.5           0.1       0.7       1.5
Education                                    54.0      56.4      72.5           1 7       1.6       2.0
Current                                     51.6      54.4     64.9            1.6       1.6      1 S
Development                                  2 4      2.0       7.6            0 1       0 1      0.2
Health and population planning               20.7      19.1      26.6           0.7       0 6       0.7
Current                                     14.3      15.0     18.S            0.4       0 4      0.5
Development                                  6.4       4.0      7.8            0.2       0.1      0.2
Rural development Il                          6.5      12.0      243            0 2       03        0.7
Current                                      13        3.9      1.7            0.0       0.1      0.0
Development                                  5.3       S.1     22.6            0 2       0.2       0.6
Food subsidies                                9.9       RI2        7            03        0.2       0.2
Water supply and saritation                   5.6       4.5       5.8           0.2       0.1       0.2
Current                                      1.9       2.1      2.1            0.1       0.1       01
Development                                  3 7       2 4      3 7            0.1       0.1       0.1
Irrigation                                    8.3       8.2      16 0           0.3       0.2       0 4
Current                                      5.4       5.8      8.2            0.2       02        0.2
Development                                  2.9       2 4      7.8            0 1       0.1       0.2
Roads                                         5.1       7.1       5.7            0.2      0.2       0.2
Current                                      1.9       3 0      0.1            0.1       01        0.0
Development                                  3.3       4.2      5.6            0.1       0.1       0.2
Other /                                       4.2       39        5 8            0.1      01        0.2
Memo Items
KusheiPogram                                  3.5       5.2      1510            0.1      0.1       0.4
GDPmp                                       3,183     3,472     3,695
a/ Includes Social secutity & other welfare, Natural cdimities end Land reclamation.
S5urce: OoP, IMF end World Bank Staff Estimates.
12.     The External Sector and Balance of Payments Outlook              Adjustment in the external sector is
predicated on a non-interest current account surplus of about 1.3 percent of GDP (considering pre-
September 11 official grants). To achieve that surplus, the macroeconomic framework relies on the
continuation of a flexible exchange rate policy that leads to a gradual real effective depreciation of the
Rupee. As a result of the September 11 events, exports in fiscal year 2001/02 are expected to decline
slightly, in contrast with a pre-September 11 projection of 7.6 percent growth. Some recovery is expected
during the second half of the year, in part boosted by the European Community's decision to increase
quotas on textile and clothing products by 15 percent and to reduce duties by about 7 percent effective
January 1, 2002 on all Pakistani exports except textiles and leather products. Import of goods were also
revised downward, due to lower activity and commodity prices, while the services balance will deteriorate



Annex C
Page 6 of 9
due to raising insurance premiums for cargo trade to and from Pakistan. The annual cost of this is
estimated at about US$160 million. Shortfalls are also projected in the capital account reflecting lower
foreign direct investment and privatization proceeds. At the same time, the projections assume that the
estimated short-term capital inflows that have already taken place in the immediate aftermath of the attack
will not be reversed, although continuation of such inflows is not expected. Once again. all the
projections depend critically upon the assumed return to normal economic and trade conditions by early
2002. Should the current conditions prevail for another two quarters, an additional deterioration of
external balances in the order of US$500-600 million would seem likely.
13.    Substantial exceptional iinancing for the program period is required. The financing package for
this fiscal year totals about US$4 billion and includes about US$1.6 billion from private sector
rescheduling; about US$1 billion from the Paris Club, US$1 billion in bilateral grants and enhanced
access to OECD markets; and US$1.6 billion from multilateral assistance--which includes US$488
million from the IMF, US$370 rnillion from the AsDB, and about US$731 million from IDA. Financing
requirements for 2002/03 and 2003/04 remain very high at about US$3.5 billion per year and financing
would need to continue to rely cn multilateral support from the IFIs (about US$1.3 billion per year); the
Paris Club (about US$750 rmillion per year); the extension of the Saudi Oil facility; and additional grants
to cover the financing gap.
14.   External Debt Sustainability. As mentioned at the outset, Pakistan entered the new century with
external debt indicators worse than most HIPC countries with the ratio of net present value of debt to
exports at about 260 percent. Pakistan's external debt is unsustainable, deterring investment and severely
constraining the resources available for social development and poverty reduction As a result, a clear and
credible path towards a sustainable external debt position is a key condition for growth and poverty
reduction. As envisaged under their debt reduction strategy, the government plans to reduce non-
concessional borrowing to the absolute minimum required to meet balance of payments needs; while
seeking more favorable terms on debt rescheduling with the Paris Club.
15.    The recent negotiations with the Paris Club have yielded a vary favorable treatment for Pakistan,
but short of the government's expectations. Bilateral creditors agreed on an exceptional stock deal that
provides for the entire stock of debt repayments over an extended period that is very similar to Naples
terms (on ODA loans repayments are stretched to 38 years with 15 years of grace; for Non-ODA loans
repayments are stretched for 231 years with 5 years of grace) but without the explicit debt reduction
element of Naples. The deal also provides for maximum cash flow relief for this fiscal year by deferring
payments on post cut-off date debt and capitalizing moratorium interest due for the remainder of the fiscal
year.  The gross cash flow relief of this deal over the three years (fiscal year 2001/02 to fiscal year
2003/04) is about US$3.6 billion.. These very favorable terms also carry an implicit debt reduction which
lowers the ratio of the net present value of debt to exports to about 230 percent in fiscal year 2001/02
which are expected to fall further to 210 percent at the end of fiscal year 2003/04. As a result, and despite
the favorable terms granted at the Paris Club, it is now expected that at then end of the PRGF period,
Pakistan's external debt will remain at levels that are not sustainable.
Conclusion
16.    Pakistan's public debt burden is an impediment to increasing outlays for social and public
infrastructure expenditures. While there is little chance of attaining sustainable public debt levels over the
horizon of the 3-year PRGF program, there is a good chance of putting the debt ratios on a favorable
downward trajectory, provided the fiscal, structural and social reforms Pakistan has embarked upon are
diligently implemented. This would lay the foundations for enhanced credibility and hence lower



Annex C
Page 7 of 9
domestic interest rates, and create a more favorable investment climate that would support the I-PRSP
growth targets. The December 2001 Paris Club agreement and the concurrent IFI package essentially
give Pakistan three years of breathing space to lay the foundation for sustainable growth.
Table 3: Balance of Payments, 1999/2000-2003/04
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Est. Pre-Sept 11         Projections
1999/2000   2000/01   2001/02    2001/02   2002/03   2003/04
Current account balance (excluding official transfers)         -2,208    -1,946     -1,860    -1,364    -1,658     -1,358
Current account balance (Including official transfers)         -1,282    -1,128     -1,027       127      -733     -1,117
Trade balance                                                  -1,411    -1,245     -1,258     -866       -908      -836
Exports fo.b.                                                   8,191     8,926     9,605      8,914     9,588     10,351
Imports f£o.b                                                  -9,602   -10,171    -10,863    -9,780    -10,496   -11,187
Services (net)                                                 -2,795     -3,130    -3,103    -2,957     -3,095    -2,990
Of which: interest payments                                    -1,676     -1,620    -1,678    -1,543     -1,580    -1,474
Private transfers (net)                                         1,997     2,429      2,502     2,459     2,345     2,469
Official transfers (net) I/                                      926        818       833      1,491       925       241
of which: Saudi oil facility                                   791        683       833        609       584       100
of which: Additional Grants                                      ..                            767       207         0
of which: Grants for Afghanistan Refugees                                                       13
Capital account                                                -2,610      -604     -3,236    -2,526     -1,716    -1,327
Public medium- and long-term capital                           -1,452      -670     -1,684      -962     -1,363     -986
Public sector short-term (net)                                  -221         -5      -700       -725        94      -369
Privatemedium- and long-term                                      273       337       174       -182       113       521
Private short-term (including errors & omissions) 2/           .1,211      -266     -1,026      -658      -559       493
Overall balance (before debt relief )                          -3,892     -1,732    -4,263    -2,399     -2,449    -2,444
Total Exceptional Flnancing Requirement                        -3,965     -2,738    -5,451     -4,028    -3,844    -3,681
Current account balance (including official transfers)       -1,282     -1,128    -1,027       127      -733     -1,117
Capital account balance                                      -2,610      -604     -3,236     -2,526    -1,716    -1,327
Change in reserves                                             208      -1,091      -993    -1,434     -1,071      -848
Use of IMF fund credit (net)                                   -280        85      -195       -195      -324      -389
Identified Financing                                            3,965     2,738      4,797     4,028      3,745     3,482
Private sectorrescheduling                                    3,965     2,738      2,210     1,412       901       801
Privatization                                                     0         0       500          0       300       300
ParisClub                                                         0         0       731      1,027      1,224     1,089
Multilateral Assistance                                           0         0      1,356      1,589     1,320     1,292
World Bank                                                      0         0        615       731       425        425
ADB                                                            0          0       473        370       455       425
IMF stand-by                                                    0         0       268        268         0         0
IMF PRGF                                                        0         0         0        220       440       442
Flanancing gap                                                      0         0       654          0       100       200
Memo Item:
End-period gross official reserves (USS million)                  908      1,681     2,385     2,797      3,677     4,555
(In weeks of imports of goods and nonfactor services)             3.9       7.5        9.7      11.6       14.4      17.0
Additonal Grants                                                    0         0         0        767       207         0
USA                                                             0         0         0        600         0         0
Japan                                                          0          0         0        121       125         0
UK                                                             0          0         0         21        57         0
EU                                                             0          0         0         25        25         0
Sources: GoP, IMF and World Bank staff estimates.
1/ Includes a grant from Saudi Arabia in the form of oil that has been agreed through 2003/04.
2/ Includes repayment of FCDs held in NBFIs and banks (reschedulings shown as exceptional financtng).



Annex C
Page 8 of 9
Pakistan at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South      Low-
Pakistan     Asia   Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    1381      1,355    2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  440       460       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    61.0      617     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population %)2 4                                               1 9      1.9
Labor force (%6)                                     3.0       2.4      2 4     GNI                            Gross
per    I                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povely line)  33
Urban population (% of total population)             37        28        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     63        63        59
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)            90        74        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            38       47        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  88       87        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 54        45        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age piopulation)  69    100        96           -Pakistan
Male                                               77       110       102                  Low-income group
Female                                             60        90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                         23.7     40.0      58.6     61.6
GrossdomesticinvestmentVGDP                18.5     18.9      15.6      15.6                   Td
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP              12.5     15.5      151       15.5
Grossdomestcsavings/GDP                     6.9     111       10.6      12.1
Gross national savings/GDP                 13.7     14.2      11.0      12.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.8    -4.7      -4 6      -3 6    Domestc 
Interest payments/GDP                       1.0      1.3       1.6       1.4       sInvestment
Total debt/GOP                             41 9     51.6      57.8      52.2    sais
Total debt service/exports                 18.3     23.3      29 4      26.7
Present value of deb/GDP                      ..      ..      42.5
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..     249.0
Indebtedness
1980-913  1990-00   1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                6.3      3.7      3.7       4.4       4 4                 Pakistan
GDP per capita                     3.15     12       1.2       1.9       1.9                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      8.4      1.7     -2.9      16.0       0.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       10
Agriculture                                29.5     26.0      27 0      26 3
Industry                                   24.9     25.2      23.7      22.8
Manufacturing                             15.9     17.4      15.5     15.1      o
Services                                   45.6     48.8      49.2      50.9     4      95 oe go     se \g      /  00
Private consumption                        83.1     73.8      79.0      76.9    -10
General govemmentconsumpton                10.0     15.1      10.4      11.0              -     GDI    --GDP
Imports of goods and services              24.1     23.4      20.0      19.1
1980-90  199040      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 4 3      4.4       1.9       6.1    20
Industry                                    7.3      3.9       4.9      -0.1    10
Manufacturing                              7.7      3.5       4.1      1.4       _
Services                                    6.8      4.4       5.0       4.8     0
Private consumption                         4.3      4.9       7.5       0.9
General govemment consumption              10.3      0.7      -6.9       7.0   -20
Gross domestic investment                   5.8      1.8      -9.2       4.1                  Exports    0  Imports
Imports of goods and services               2.1      2.5      -5.4      -2.3
The diamonds show four key indicators in tho country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the dliamond will
be Incomplete.
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates. The debt figures in this table are from the WB debt reporting system and they cover calendar years rather
than Pakistan's fiscal years (July 1 - June 30).



Annex C
Page 9 of 9
Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                     Is
Consumer pries                                                 5 7      3.6    10
Implicit GDP deflator                       9.1      6 5      5 9       3 7
Govemnment finance                                                             s
(N of GOP, includes current grants)                                             0                       I ,
Current revenue                                     18.0      16.2     16.6           95    95    97    9s    99   oo
Current budget balance                              -1.0      -3,0     -3.5           -    GDP deflator  o  CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                             -6.6      -6.0     46.3
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       2,365    4,927     7,528    8,191    15.000
Cotton                                             443         2       73
Rice                                        .      239      533       540     IO.000
Manufactures                             1,371   2,489     6,993    7,579
Total imports (ad                                  7,411     9,613    9,602
Food                                             1,066     1,496      896     s ooo
Fuel and energy                                  1,163     1,477    2,793
Capital goods                                    1,788     2,921    2,705        0
Export price index (1995=100)                       102        87       84           94   95   9s  97    9s  go   oo
Importpncemndex(1995=100)                                      87       93                ( Exports    mlmports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                                      100       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             2,958    6,217     8,842    9,575    0 _ +
Imports ot goods and services             5,709    9,351    11,737   11,762        9       9      97   9    9    0
Resource balance                         -2,751   -3,134    -2,895   -2,187   -2 -
Net income                                 -281     -966    -1,808   -2,018
Net current transfers                     1,895    2,210     2,005    1,997   -4-
Current account balance                  -1,137   -1,890    -2,698   -2,208    -s
Financing items (net)                              1,890     3,952    2,000
Changes in net reserves                               0     -1,254     208       -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..    1,311     2,228    1,606
Conversion rate (DEC, locaW1US$)            9.9     21.4      50.1     51.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      9,931   20,663    33,886   32,182
IBRD                                      330    1.816     3,315    3,093                 G 1.519  A 3.093
IDA                                       821    2,106     3,905    3,828
Total debt service                          870    1,926     2,940    2,850         F 3854                  B 3,828
IBRD                                       58     199       434      408
IDA                                         9      34        86       93
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             C 1.529
Official grants                           268     538       573      926
Official creditors                        544     913       876      452
Private creditors                         167      -63      477     -361        E. 11,659
Foreign direct investment                 68      200       472      471                                  6 s600|
Portfolio equIty                           0       87        28       74
World Bank program
Commitments                               185     972       808        0      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             90      494       628      301      8 - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      29       92       283      291      C - IMF                   G - Shorttermm
Net flows                                 61      402       345       10
Interest payments                         39      141       237      210
Net transfers                             22      261       108     -201
Development Economics
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates. The debt figures in this table are from the WB debt reporting system and they cover calendar years rather
than Pakistan's fiscal years (July 1 - June 30).



Annex D
Page I of 9
POVERTY AND PROGRESS TOWARDS MDG GOALS
1.     Poverty and backward social indicators remain serious problems in Pakistan. Notwithstanding
tripling of per capita incomes over the last fifty years, Pakistan's human development remains behind that
in countries with similar levels of income.' Internal differences in poverty and human development
indicators have persisted or widened-among regions, between rural and urban areas, and between men
and women. The 1990s have been a particularly adverse decade. Macroeconomic imbalances widened
during the decade and have brought Pakistan on the verge of a debt trap. These imbalances contributed
to, and were also exacerbated by a deterioration of the investment climate, and a decline in growth.
Progress in poverty reduction and social indicators stagnated, and in few cases progress was even
reversed. At the beginning of a new millennium, Pakistan is saddled with unsustainable extemal and
domestic debt, the resources available from accumulating which did not generate commensurate
economic and social retums. Turning the situation around hinges on Pakistan's capacity to rapidly
address serious macroeconomic imbalances, restore an investment environment conducive to growth, and
improve the population's access to health and education services. While the last two years have seen
promising initiatives to tum the situation around, they are too recent to have tangible effect, and need to
be sustained over time before they can generate significant and palpable results.
2.     Poverty in Pakistan, as is the case with most countries, is linked to overall growth performance of
the economy. Periods of substantial and sustained poverty reduction - in Pakistan's case, notably, the late
1980s-also happen to be periods of sustained growth. On the other hand, uneven growth in the last
decade has led to volatility, and on balance, stagnation of poverty measured in consumptioln terms. Most
importantly, even when growth has occurred, resulting in reductions of income or consumption poverty,
the gains have not translated inl;o commensurate increases in capability, as measured by indicators of
human development. Pakistan has poor health, education, and fertility indicators for its level of per capita
2
income. Moreover, comparing Pakistan with countries that grew at about the same rate (regardless of
initial income level), suggests that other moderate growers achieved more social progress than Pakistan
for a given amount of growth. The failure to develop human capital, which can be described as a social
gap as far as Pakistan is concerned, is one of the likely reasons for the slow-down in growth and poverty
reduction in the 1990s.3 The ability to achieve sustainable growth and poverty reduction in future will
thus require addressing the shortcomings in human development, including the institutional factors that
contribute to these failings.
Poverty, Growth and Inequality
3.     On the whole, growth and to some extent, changes in distribution of consumption are important in
explaining changes in consumption poverty in Pakistan. Between 1984-85 and 1987-88, substantial
poverty reduction took place, as a result of strong growth performance that led to sizeable increases in
mean consumption, along with reduced inequality in rural areas. From 1987-88 to 1990-91, lower growth
rates combined with slight worsening of inequality, led to smaller gains in poverty reduction. This
pattern was carried into the 1990s, a period that also saw large variations in growth rates that led to
fluctuations in consumption poverty. During the later part of the 1990s, growth performance dropped off
considerably, which led to worsening of the poverty situation since 1996-97. On balance during the
1990s, incidence, depth and severity of overall poverty remained almost unchanged if one were to
compare the beginning and the end of the decade (1990-91 and 1998-99).
' For details on cross-country analysis, see the Interim Poverty Assessment report.
2 Compared to other countries of its income level, Pakistan has, for instance, 42% lower health spending per capita, 27 more
infant deaths per thousand, 23% lower share of population with access to sanitation, 40% fewer girls of elementary school age
enrolled in primary school, and 24% lower rate of literacy among adults.
The long-term component of growth late had fallen by 4% by the end of the 90's, from its peak of 6.6% in the 1980s. Barro
(1998) shows that health, education, ancl fertility indicators significantly affect growth outcomes.



Annex D
Page 2 of 9
4.     Comparing    1990-91 with    1998-99, the
national poverty rate remained almost unchanged
between the beginning and the end of the decade         60
(Figure 1).4  In the intervening years during the     ' -
1990s, poverty rates showed high volatility from      . 
year to year, and it appears that a steep increase in   40                               0 Urban
poverty occurred during the end of the decade         c 30                               M Rural
(however, due to methodological considerations        a 20   DO.rall
affecting comparability, the estimates for these      5      N0
intervening years should be treated with some                      l
caution).5  Prior to the 1990s, poverty is found to      0
U,  co  .-t 
have declined sharply, particularly between 1984-85          a?  a?                 Si N   m  0
0    o  a)  0)  0)  0)  0)
and 1987-88.                                                _) ?_        ?  ?_ o ! O o
5.     The link between growth and consumption poverty can be seen from observing that the later part
of the 1980s, characterized by substantial poverty reduction, were also periods of high growth. Since
then, as growth slowed in the 1990s, particularly during the later part of the decade, poverty stagnated and
some of the earlier gains were even reversed. Disaggregating by region, while urban poverty fell between
1990-91 and 1998-99, rural poverty held at about 36%, widening the rural-urban gap (Table 1). This is of
particular concern because 71% of Pakistanis live in rural areas. In addition, a significant share of the
population appear to be at the risk of falling into poverty-vulnerable to a shock like illness or drought-
given that in 1998-99, as many as 43% of the total population were concentrated within a small range of
75 to 125% of the poverty line (in consumption terms). The high volatility of poverty rates during the
1990s, especially in rural areas, leads further credence to the evidence suggesting vulnerability of a large
section of the population.6
Table 1: Poverty (Head-Count) Estimates for Pakistan
1984-85  1987-88   1990-91  1992-93  1993-94   1996-97  1998-99
Poverty Headcount
National                        46.0     37.4      34.0     25.7     28.6      24.0     32.6
Urban                           38.2     30.7      28.0     20.8     17.2      16.9     24.2
Rural                           49.3     40.2      36.9     27.7     33.4      27.1     35.9
Growth of Real Per Capita GDP
(Average Annual Rates since        -        4.1      2.8      2.9       0.0      1.8      0.8
previous period)
4 Poverty is estimated using a poverty line set at the inflation adjusted cost of achieving a minimum bundle of basic needs,
including food, fuel, housing and clothing
5 There are indications, described in detail in the Interim Poverty Assessment Report, that poverty was underestimated in the
surveys between 1992-93 and 1996-97; this would mean that the observed increase in poverty between 1996-97 and 1998-99 is
somewhat exaggerated.
6 The ongoing Pakistan Rural Household Survey (PRHS), whose findings will inform the final version of the Poverty Assessment
for Pakistan, will provide more detailed evidence on the extent, nature and implications of vulnerability.



Annex D
Page 3 of 9
6.    Inequality trends have also played a part    Figure 2: Inequality (Gini: Per Equivalent
in explaining poverty changes. The period of               Adult Consumption)
largest poverty reduction, namely between 1984-
85 and 1987-88, was also marked by the        40
sharpest fall in the index of inequality for the
country as a whole.7 By 1998-99, the Gini was  35
at a level slightly higher than in 1990-91.  1     +                           /
Inequality in the urban areas increased sharply  , 30-
by 1998-99, irrespective of whether one takes  ae  *
1990-91 or 1984-85 as the reference period,   25 -     ..
while rural inequality was reduced slightly   20 ___
(Figure 2). A growth-inequality decomposition  20       c    .-                   a)
of changes in poverty incidence reveals that in    T    a?        M          M    0
urban areas, some of the potential gains in             c    CD a       M O       M
poverty reduction arising out of growth in mean
consumption between 1990-91 and 1998-99 (see       -4Urban     - -- Rural -4-National
Table 2) were negated by rising inequality. In
rural areas on the other hand, mean consumption did not increase between 1990-91 and 1998-99 (Table
2), and whatever minimal net reduction in poverty occurred during the period was due to some shift
towards more equal distribution of consumption.
7.     Given  the primary role  of
agricultural sector in the rural economy,  Table 2: Mean Per Equivalent Adult Consumption (Monthly,
agricultural performance is likely to be            Constant 1990-91 Prices)
critical in explaining observed trends in
crurical poverty.inThe avserged arennualn  1987-88 1990-91 1992-93 1993-94 1996-97 1998-99
rural poverty.  The average annual
growth of value added in agriculture fell Urban  557  566  570     580     577     589
from 5.4% during the period 1984-90, to Rural  390  417    457     423     438     411
5.3%  during 1990-96, and only 2.2%
during 1996-99. Moreover, growth in agriculture was more volatile during the 1990s than in the 1980s.8
These trends are consistent wilh the observed reduction in rural poverty (and rise in mean rural
consumption) seen between 1984l-85 and 1990-91, the high volatility in rural poverty and consumption
thereafter, and the rise in rural poverty from 1996-97 to 1998-99. Given the importance of agricultural
sector in determining rural poverty, it will be important to understand the critical bottlenecks in the rural
economy must be underpinned by an analysis of the micro-level factors that act as obstacles to
productivity and growth, and contribute to the vulnerability of rural households. These issues will be
addressed briefly later in this report.
8.    In the light of these preliininary findings, an in-depth examination of the structural f actors that led
to weak and unstable growth performance, starting in the late 1980s and continuing into the 1990s, would
be necessary to determine the constraints to growth. Some of these areas-for instance, those responsible
for constraining private investment-are beyond the scope of the current report; the focus of this report,
consistent with the agenda of the Poverty Assessment, will be to explore the human and social dimensions
of poverty that go beyond what is represented by consumption and income measures of poverty. This
would be especially critical in understanding the nature and extent of the aforementioned social gap in
Pakistan, and the extent to which the lack of capability these gaps translate into, acts as an obstacle to
improvements in economic oppoitunities for the poor.
7 Inequality is measured by the Gini coefficient of per equivalent adult consumption
8 Growth of value added in agriculture nnged from as high as 12% during 1995-96, to negative growth during 1992-93, and near
zero growth during 1996-97.



Annex D
Page 4 of 9
Understanding the Linkages to Poverty
9.     Data from the household surveys in the 1990s offer some evidence on the multi-dimensional
nature of poverty and the extent to which the poor are deprived, not only of consumption, but also of the
ability to undertake investments and to develop skills. The following economic and social factors are
identified as particularly closely linked to poverty:
* Disadvantageous consumption patterns: The poor in Pakistan allocate a larger share of their
expenditures towards food, fuel and lighting, especially in urban areas, and consequently spend
less on items, such as healthcare or education, which could boost their long-term eaming
potential. For instance, the poor spend around 53%, 8% and 3% of their total household budget
on food, fuel and education respectively, compared to 47%, 7% and 4% respectively for the non-
poor.
* Skewed pattern of landownership: More than one-half of the rural population in Pakistan is
landless. The incidence of rural poverty is the highest among those who own no land and falls
steadily as the ownership of land increases. Over 40% of landless households are poor and
together constitute 70% of the rural poor, while less than 3% of households owning 10 acres or
more are poor.
* Large family size: Only 5% and 14% of Pakistani households with between 1-2 and 3-5 members
respectively are poor, whereas this is the case for 46% and 48% of households with between 11-
15, and than more than 15 members respectively.
* Poor educational attainment: 42% of the population living in households with illiterate heads is
poor, compared to 21% of those in households. Net primary enrollment rate is 59% for the non-
poor, and 37% for the poor, and particularly low among poor female children in rural areas.
* Poor health and fertility indicators: The poor are less likely to access health facilities - the
incidence of medical consultation for diarrhea among children is 79% for the poor, compared to
84% of the non-poor; similar or larger gaps exist in various measures of access to matemal health
care. While the rate of contraceptive use is low for the whole country, especially in rural areas,
poor women are even less likely to use contraception methods - 15% of married women of age
15 to 49 in the lowest expenditure quintile have ever used contraceptives, compared to 25% of
those in the highest quintile.
* Lack of access to critical infrastructure: As many as 24% of the poor rely on potentially unsafe
sources for drinking water, compared to 19% of the non-poor; only about 52% of the poor live in
households connected to electricity, compared to 76% of non-poor households.
* Vulnerability to abuses or power, weak rule of law: Compared to other countries with similar
levels of income, Pakistan ranks poorly on indices of graft, govemment effectiveness and rule of
law. On each of these counts, drawing on scale ranging from -2.5 to 2.5, it scores nearly one half
a point lower than would be expected. As widely evidenced, the poor are more affected by the
costs this imposes.
10.    Such linkages provide some indication of the nature and extent of poverty in Pakistan, not just as
a measure of consumption, but also related to human development. Educational attainment and health are
among the most valuable benefits of such development and are also important determinants of whether
someone living in poverty is likely to improve their circumstances. In aggregate, the educational
attainment and health of Pakistan's population is therefore crucial to its ability to grow, and the
deficiencies along these dimensions constitute the social gap identified before as the critical constraint to
long-term growth and poverty reduction. Evidence from household data offers opportunities to quantify
the trends in education and health in recent years, and permits a systematic investigation of factors that
help explain differences in the educational attainment and health. Such analysis would help in explaining



Annex D
Page 5 of 9
the pattem of human development and identifying the critical constraining factors, which would in turn
inform a discussion on the kind of policy interventions necessary to address the social gap in Pakistan.
Tracking Progress towards Millennium Development Goals
11.    The I-PRSP for Pakistan provides an elaborate monitoring and evaluation framework, outlining
the various issues surrounding the choice of indicators and the related sources of data and measurement.
This note will also describe the progress made so far on these technical issues as well as on the process of
reaching a consensus on these and the institutional accountabilities for this exercise.
12.    Table 3 below summarizes the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and the long term
indicators that will be tracked at the national level, along with the sources for these indicators. The long-
term indicators proposed to measure progress towards the MDGs are readily available from existing
databases. A few outstanding issues however remain, which require timely resolution.
*  The challenge, however, is to reconcile the baselines in instances (e.g. gross enrollment rates)
where more than one source of information exist. The PRSP Implementation Committee under
the PRSP Secretariat (Ministry of Finance), in consultation with the relevant ministries and the
Federal Bureau of Statistics, would need to identify the source to be used for baseline and
tracking of such indicators. In the interim, the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS
1998-99) is the preferred source, since it is a representative household survey that is regularly
fielded.9 This will also ensure that capacity-building can be focused on the agency currently
accountable for the PIHS.
*  Pakistan has not had a national poverty line. The choice of a poverty line has been the source of
much debate over the years. Tracking progress towards the MDGs necessitates a decision on a
national poverty line that can be consistently updated over time to measure progress in reducing
poverty. A regional workshop sponsored by the World Bank in partnership with Pakistan
Institute of Development Economics has helped in building consensus for the selection of an
official poverty line. The PRSP Implementation Committee is playing a facilitating role in
expediting this decision.
*  The indicators would also need to be disaggregated at the provincial level. Setting baselines for
provincial indicators, thait are consistent with those of the national indicators, is straightforward
since the data sources for the most part can be disaggregated at the provincial level. However,
targets by province will need to be worked out with provincial governments. This process is
currently being initiated by the PRSP Secretariat. Ultimately these targets are endogenous to
implementation of the devolution plan. Devolution to the district level and below is currently
underway, for which the fiscal framework is yet to be full implemented. Therefore the exercise
of setting credible targets for individual provinces can only evolve when the devolution process
has been completed. In the interim, it would be best to focus on the national levels and arrive at a
resolution for the national indicators in Pakistan.
9 The PIHS closely follows the model of the Living Standards Measurement Surveys that are fielded regularly in a number of
developing countries.



Annex D
Page 6 of 9
Table 3: Tracking Progress Towards MDGs
MDGs                    Long Term Indicators        Baseline (1998-99)'°           Medium-Term Targets (2004)
(Outcome)
Economic well-being:    *   Poverty headcount       *    32.6%                     *   Targets to be determined
reducing the proportion  *  Poverty gap ratio       *    7.0
of poor living in extreme  *  Gini index of consumption  *  30.6
poverty by at least half  *  Percentage of rural    *    61.4%
by 2015                     population with no
ownership of agricultural
land
Social development &
Empowerment of
Women:
Universal primary       *   Gross primary enrollment  *  71%                       *   80%
education by 2015       *   Net primary enrollment
*   Literacy rate (15 and    *   50.5% (urban: 66.5%, rural:
above)                       45.2%)
*   42.5% (urban: 63%, rural:  *   59%
34%)
Reduce gender disparity  *  Difference in primary    *   13.6 % (net enrollment);  *    12% gap (Gross
in primary education by     enrollments (net and         18% (gross enrollment)         enrollments:- Male: 87%,
2005                        gross) between girls and                                   female: 75%)
boys
*   Differences in literacy  *   30.8% (male: 58%, female:  *   21% (Male: 70%, female:
rates between males and      27.2%)                         49%)
females
Increase participation of  *  Proportion of seats held by  *  Available after national
women in political          women in national            elections in October, 2002
decision-making             parliament
Reduce infant and child  *  Infant mortality rate    *   83 per 1000 live births (127  *  65 per 1000 live births
(below age 5) mortality                                 in 1991)                    *   To be determined
rates by 2/3 of the 1990-  *  Under-5 child mortality  *  116 per 1000 live births
91 rate, by 2015            rate
*   Immunization rate (% of  *   49%                        *   62%
children 12-23 months old
that are fully immunized)
Reduce maternal         *   Births attended by skilled  .  19%                      *   25%
mortality by 3/4 between    health personnel
1990 and 2015              (doctor/nurse/ Lady
Health Visitor)
*   Percentage of pregnant   *   31%                        *   50%
women usinR prenatal care
Provide access to       *   Contraceptive prevalence  *  28% (PRHFPS); 19.5%        *   39%
reproductive health         rate
services through primary
health care system for all
individuals of appropriate
ages by 2015
Improvements in Other   *   Population with access to  *  To be filled
Indicators                  safe drinking water
*   Total fertility rate
*   Life expectancy at birth  *  4.5; 4.8 (PRHFPS)          *   4.1
*   % of TB cure rate        *   To be filled
*   Unknown
10 Data source for all long-term indicators, unless otherwise specified, are from PIHS (1998-99). Other sources are: Pakistan
Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey (PRHFPS) 2000-01



Annex D
Page 7 of 9
13.     Given the issues raised above, particularly the ones outlined in the first two bullets, the targets
should be seen as indicative. Moreover, for some indicators that are monitorable (such as the ones in
Table 4), targets are not meaningful.         Tracking   progress towards MDGs, which         comprise   of
intemationally set goals, will be challenging, where the first step will be to assess how realistic such goals
are in the specific context of Pakistan. The Bank is facilitating this process in Pakistan, using S1MSIP (a
simulation software package developed by the Bank) to assess how realistic these targets are, in
conjunction with the exercise of costing the targets. The regional workshop made a beginning in this
direction, by conducting training sessions for representatives for all countries in the region, including
those from Pakistan.
Table 4: Output/Intermediate Indicators for Poverty Monitoring (measured annually)
Access
*   Utilization Rates disaggregated by BHU/RHC and by curative care.
*    Source: HMIS
*   % of population covered by LHWs
Source: LHW/MIS
Quality
Leading indicators to monitor  *  % of FLCF (BHUs/RHCs) that were out of stock of 5 essential drugs, or contraceptives
health outcomes                 for period of more than one month each in a given year.
Source: HMIS
*   % cf FLCF (BH{Us/RHCs) with doctors and/or female paramedic present.
Souirce: Proposed Annual Facility Survey
*   % cf children aged 12-23 months fully immunized against DPT-3.
Source: Annual Surveys conducted by Independent agencies under the GAVI
initiative
* Number of functional schools: (a) facilities where learning takes place by presence
of teachers and students; and (b) facilities with learning takes place and there is
adequate physical infrastructure - at least a building, toilet, drinking water.
Source: NEMIS
Leading indicators to monitor   *   Percentage of teachers with in-service training.
education outcomes               Source: Proposed Annual Facility Survey; NEMIS
Quality of schooling
*   Teacher absenteeism: teacher present or not at the time or survey.
Source: Proposed Annual Facility Survey
Social FrotectionWSafety Net Programs
*   Ternporary employment generated through public works programs under Khushal
Pakistan Program
Source: M/o Local Government & Rural Development
Leading indicators to monitor  *  Number of beneficiaries of Zakat by type of assistance and province.
anti-poverty prograrns      *   Nuinber of borrowers and size of credit under PPAF and Khushali Bank programs.
*   Nuinber and composition of small infrastructure projects and training supported by
microcredit.
Source: PPAF, ADBP, & Khushali Bank
*   Nuinber of beneficiaries by province (rural/urban) of the Food Support Program.
Sonrce: Pakistan Bait-ul-Maal
Poverty Monitoring and Trackirig of Output Indicators
14.     In order to measure progress towards the MDGs, it will be necessary to track some output
indicators that change over short spans of time, are leading indicators for the goals, and provide feedback
to policymakers about the results of policy initiatives on the ground. Such indicators should be monitored
regularly-annually or semi-annually-so that the findings can inform policymakers on a continuous
basis. Table 4 provides a list of such output indicators for Pakistan. This list has evolved from the
monitoring framework provided by the I-PRSP, further refined at the workshop held by the PRSP
Secretariat to bring about consensus among provincial and district authorities on the selection of
indicators. Implementation of this monitoring mechanisms will require finalization of the set of



Annex D
Page 8 of 9
indicators, setting up mechanisms to collect the information, and building capacity for rapid analysis of
the data gathered.
15.    The process outlined above entails the following steps in the context of Pakistan:
*  Evaluation of existing monitoring systems, like the management information systems for
education and health (NEMIS and HMIS), identifying bottlenecks and possible areas of
improvement. This is likely to be completed by May 1, 2002 with the help of DFID consultants.
*  Creating a database to measure the selected output indicators; this involves identifying new data
sources, as well as developing a survey-based tool that is easy to administer, implement, and
covers a large sample that is representative at the district level. Most importantly, the analysis of
the data must be completed with a quick turnaround time, to have maximum impact on policy
formulation.
*  In the context of Pakistan, given the criticality of improving service delivery, the survey tool
should collect information at the facility level, as well as the household level. This, when
triangulated with the expenditure tracking exercise (which is part of the proposed monitoring
framework), will provide a quick and effective diagnostic of progress in education, health and
targeting efficiency of the major poverty programs.
16.   We expect the full implementation of this monitoring exercise to be completed by the end of this
calendar year. A critical outstanding issue is to clarify the institutional arrangements and accountability
for implementing the monitoring exercise. Ongoing dialogue is expected to expedite this process. In the
context of Pakistan, institutional accountability and the roles and responsibilities of CIPRID and PRSP
Secretariat would need to be specified.
Poverty Monitoring and Tracking I-PRSP Expenditure
17.    The government has established a carefully designed monitoring mechanism to track inputs-
expenditures. Tracking expenditures is very important on two accounts: (a) while the information
systems to assess outcome indicators are developed, measuring inputs is essential; and (b) expenditure
tracking conducted on an on-time basis can provide early warning on the pace of progress in
implementation of the I-PRSP.
18.    Human development and pro-poor expenditures have been clearly defined and a system to
monitor these expenditures on quarterly basis is I place. Non-reconciled data is available with about a six
week lag after a quarter's end and immediately made public through the Ministry of Finance web-site
(Table 4). Reconciled provisional data is available with about a three month lag after a quarters' end and
with a higher level of detail which includes salary and non-salary components of current expenditures.
19.    Efforts are underway to improve expenditure tracking and analysis of PRSP expenditure by: (i)
analyzing quarterly expenditures vis-a-vis budget allocations, as well as last year's expenditures; (ii)
monitoring salary and non-salary expenditures in key sectors; and (iii) making quarterly reports more
meaningful by providing rationale for deviations in sectoral expenditures from their nonmal trends. The
latter is the responsibility of the provincial govemments as most I-PRSP expenditures are incurred at the
provincial and local govemment level. Starting on fiscal year 2002/03 all provinces will be preparing
more comprehensive and detailed quarterly analysis of I-PRSP expenditure pattems at the provincial, and
local govemment level. These activities will also be supported by proposed adjustment lending at the
sub-national level in Sindh and NWFP, with other provinces expected to follow.



Annex D
Page 9 of 9
Table 5: PPRSP Expenditures - Preliminary July 2001 - March 2002
(Rs. million)
Federal        Punjab         Slodh         NWFP          Baloch.       TOTAL
Roads highways, & Bridges                       794          1,047           905            210            26          2,982
Cuffent                                       652           502             56             55            26          1,291
Development                                   142           545            849            155                        1,691
Water Supply & Sanitation                       393          1,008           314            553           418          2,686
Current                                        90            162           201            441           294          1,188
Development                                   303           846            113            112           124          1,498
Education                                     6,523         18,466         9,748          6,352         2,765         43,854
Current                                     4,627         18,370         9,706          6,321         2,718 _       41,742
Development                                 1,896            96             42             31            47          2,112
Primary Education                             1,435         10,743         4,570          2,851         1,219         20,818
Current                                       717         10,695         4,568          2,843         1,219         20,042
Development                                   718            48              2              8                          776
Secondary Education                           1,049          4,866         3,114          2,560           915         12,504
Current                                       907          4,819         3,107          2,546           915         12,294
Development                                   142            47              7             14           .              210
General Universities, Colleges & Inst.        1,942          1,642           838            476           198          5,096
Current                                     1.692          1,642           837            472           198          4,841
Development                                   250            .               I              4           .              255
Professional Unlversities, CoDeges & lnsts,     851           333            475            293            99          2,051
Current                                       611           333            448            291            99           1,782
Development                                   240                           27              2           -              269
Teacher& Vocational Training                    777           382            141             81           126           1,507
Current                                       233            382           140             79           126            960
Development                                   544            -               1              2                          547
Other (Educadon)                                469            500           610             91           208           1,878
Cuffent                                       467           499            606             90           161           1,823
Development                                     2              1             4              1            47             55
Health                                        2,401          4,047          2,268          1,289          824          10,829
Current                                     1,536          3,947         2,224           1,274          741           9,722
Development                                   865            100            44             15            83           1,107
General Hospiltls & ClnIcs                    1,271          3,542          1,859          1,096          426           8,194
Cunrent                                     1,218          3,444          1,858         1,094           426           8,040
Developmemt                                    53             98             I              2           .              154
Mother & Child Health                             I             18 _is                        9             7             35
Current                                         I             18                            9             7             35
Development                     =-                                                                          I
Health Facilities & Preventive Measures         862             17           256             56            63           1,254
Current                                        70             15           227             55            63            430
Development                                   792              2            29              t           -              824
Other. (Health)                                 267            470           153             128          328           1,346
Current                                       247            470           139             116          245           1,217
Development                                    20            -              14              12           83             129
Population Planning                             889                            8              3             9            909
Current                                        27                                           2             3             32
Development                                   862            -                8              I            6             877
Social Security & Social Welfare                290            258           125             38            51            762
Current                                       270            257            125             36           43             731
Development                                    20              I                            2             8              31
Natural Calamities & Other Diaten:               76             32              1            -             -              109
Irrigation                                      396          2,307          1,330            612          393           5,038
Current                                        43          1,836          1,016           469           190           3,554
Development                                   353            471           314             143          203           1,484
Land Reclamation                                -               40          1,128            -             -            1,168
Rural Development                               408            802           915           2,581          969           5,675
Cufrent                                        27            396           915             371          206           1,915
Development                                   381            406            -            2,210          763           3,760
Food Subsidies                                               2,504           730             568                        3,973
GRAND TOTAL                                  12,341         30,511         17,472         12,206         5,455         77,985
Note Datafor Khushal Pakistan Pmrogtm and Food Support Program is not awillablefor 3rd Quarter.



Annex E
Page I of 5
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR - OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
Background
1.    Pakistan has long lagged its neighbors and many other low-income countries in terms of health
and fertility indicators. There has been an improvement in these indicators in 1990's. The infant
mortality rate is about 85/1000 live births in 2000/01 as compared to over 127/1000 in 1991, and the total
fertility rate is probably around 4.8 as compared to 6.4 at the beginning of the 1990s. The corresponding
current figures for India and Bangladesh are about 70/1000 for infant mortality rate and about 3.0 for the
total fertility, so the gap remains large in terms of outcomes.
2.     Further progress in health and population outcomes is dependent on a variety of factors, both
within and outside the health sector. Although, the extemal factors including increasing levels of poverty,
illiteracy, lack of access to safe drinking water and inadequate sanitation are important determinants of
poor outcomes, factors internal to the health sector also contribute significantly to the above slow
progress. The intemal factors include: very low govemment expenditure on health services, poor value
obtained by the public from what the Govemment spends, because of weak policy formulation capacity,
weak management, frequent transfers of staff, and corrupt practices such as staff absenteeism. The
public's dissatisfaction with govemment's outpatient services is reflected in large numbers of people
seeking the help of private practitioners. In addition, Government regulation of private practitioners is
practically non-existent, and the quality of services is extremely uneven.
Government's Health Strategy in Recent Years
3.     The Government's health strategy in recent years has focused on programmatic reforms and
organizational and management reforms. Reasonable progress was made in programmatic areas, most
notably polio eradication, strengthening the tuberculosis control program, and increasing contraceptive
prevalence and development of a ambitious strategic plan to counter the threat of HIV/AIDS. The
number of community-based health workers, the availability of female doctors and paramedics has
improved significantly in all provinces. This has resulted in better availability of services and advice at
the grass-roots, especially in the area of maternal and child health and family planning. A gradual
expansion of the social marketing programs ensured availability of family planning services and products
through private sector in urban and peri-urban areas. However, limited progress was made in the routine
immunization program: the percentage of fully immunized children 12-23 months of age is still far from
satisfactory at about 52 percent overall (1998/99 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey), with a large
urban-rural differential. Similarly, little progress was made in improving nutrition of mothers and children
due to lack of leadership. The progress in management and organizational reforrns has been limited with
reforms either not implemented or implemented halfheartedly with little effect on the quality of health
care. In addition, issues related to govemance including staff absenteeism and lack of supervision have
also significantly hindered progress.
Strategic Direction in Interim Poverty Reduction Paper and Health Policy
4.     The present govemment realizing the urgent need to restore public health services has taken
various steps to improve governance specifically to reduce staff absenteeism, and restructure provincial
departments in line with the Devolution Initiative. Besides these steps, a medium-term strategy for
Human Development has been outlined in Interim Poverty Reduction Paper and the new Health Policy.
The Human Development Strategy presents an integrated framework to address the critical bottlenecks in
service delivery, especially in health, population, and education. In health and population, the strategy
focuses on:



Annex E
Page 2 of 5
*  Strengthening preventive health care, especially in the public health programs-immunization,
communicable diseases such as malaria, Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS; and matemal and child health
and family planning;
*  Improving the quality of health care at the tehsil and district headquarter hospitals; and
*  Strengthen management capacity at the district level.
5.    In addition to the above, the government has also announced an ambitious plan to train
professional community midwives to address a large "unfinished agenda" concerning Maternal and Child
Health. The details and modalities of the program are not yet clear, however, the plan is necessary to help
make progress to reach Millernium Development Goals related to matemal health. The Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper, also recognizes the need to reorganize district health offices with devolved
decision making powers and increased accountability of the government services to the communities and
build capacity for effective district health systems, in the framework of the planned devolution initiative.
Improving Performance of Key Preventive Programs
6.     The focus of the govemrnent is to improve performance of key preventive programs including the
Lady Health Worker's program, expansion of Tuberculosis Control through Directly Observed Therapy
Short-course strategy, and expanding the response to HIV/AIDS. In population, the aim is to expand
social marketing programs. However, plans to improve routine immunization coverage are yet to be fully
operationalized.
* Improving Access to Primary Health Care and Family Planning Through Lady Health
Workers. To improve access to primary health care and family planning, expansion of the
program is on track to increase the number of Lady Health workers to 69,000 by the end of FY02.
The merger of Village based Family Planning Workers with Lady Health Workers has been
completed and re-training of the workers is in progress. The allocations for the program have
been enhanced to expand the program coverage to 50% of the population, ensure availability of
contraceptive supplies, aLnd improve mobility of the supervisors. In line with the results of the
recent evaluation, expansion of the program will focus on rural areas and will address issues
related to supervision, lechnical skills of LHWs and strengthening management capacity. In
addition, the program has started the process for strategic planning for next phase of the program
beyond 2003.
*  Increasing TB DOTS Coverage. Pakistan with sixth largest burden of tuberculosis in the world
has started the phased introduction of Directly Observed Therapy Short-course strategy. The
program is making steady progress, except in Punjab where the progress is slow. The program
has adequate resource allocation in all provinces and has been expanded to 36 districts during
2001. The percentage cf population covered has increased to 22 percent in FY02 from around
8% in FY0 1. The program is using LHWs, family members and health staff to ensure compliance
with treatment.
*  Expanding Response to HIVIAIDS Epidemic. The National AIDS Control Program in close
collaboration with provincial govemments is making good progress to develop an expanded
response to prevent HIV.AIDS epidemic in collaboration with the World Bank: The focus of the
program is to target vulnerable populations by providing a package of services through non-
govemmental organizations; changing behaviors through behavior change c.ommunication



Annex E
Page 3 of 5
strategy and ensuring safe blood transfusion. It is expected that the new program would be
implemented from October 2002.
*  Strengthening the Expanded Program of Immunization. The program has been provided
adequate financing in the 2001/02 Annual Development Program and has made good progress in
FY02. Hepatitis B vaccination with assistance of the Global Alliance for Vaccine Initiative has
been introduced in 12 districts and plans are being prepared for further expansion to cover whole
country from March 2002. The numbers of polio cases have been reduced from 199 in 2000 to
110 in 2001. A comprehensive plan is being implemented to increase Tetanus Toxoid coverage
for women in high-risk districts. The government strategic medium-term plans to strengthen and
expand the routine program with support from the Global Alliance for Vaccine Initiative.
However, the program is unable to use the resources to strengthen routine immunization as
financing arrangements to use GAVI resources are yet to be approved at the federal and
provincial level.
*  Improving Contraceptive Prevalence. The population program has been provided adequate
financing and continues to make satisfactory progress. The reorganization of NATPOW, a trust
fund to finance NGO program is making progress with re-constitution of the Electoral College to
improve governance issues. It is expected that NGO financing would be initiated in FY03. The
Social Marketing Pakistan faced a financing gap of about $2 million in FY02. The Ministry of
Population Welfare besides actively pursing alternate funding options provided interim short-term
support by supplying contraceptives including 33 million condoms and 128,000 oral pills. The
Ministry is exploring options to further expand the program including options to brand public
sector contraceptives; expansion in rural areas; and social marketing of condoms for disease
prevention. A key remaining challenge has been lack of progress in improving the availability of
contraceptive supplies to the provincial Departments of Health, which needs urgent attention.
Restructuring of the Health Sector for Devolution
7.     The government is implementing major political initiative by formation of the District
Governments with devolved administrative and financial powers and increased local responsibility. The
implementation modalities of this strategy including plans for financing are being worked out. The
process to restructure the provincial Departments of Health is making reasonable progress and is at
various stages of development in different provinces. NWFP and Sindh appear to be making greater
progress than other provinces. The steps taken so far include:
*  The roles and responsibilities of different tiers and a new organizational structure have been
developed in all provinces. The provinces have started to strengthen capacity for the delivery of
social services at the district level, focusing on the areas of management, finance and planning.
To this effect, they have increased the number of senior management positions at the district level
(96 posts in NWFP and 105 in Sindh) and redeployed staff from the provincial to district level.
The central management structures (Directorate and Secretariat) have been reduced in size, more
so in North West Frontier Province and Sindh. In NWFP, 164 out of 430 posts, and in Sindh, 12
out of a total of 20 senior management posts have been abolished. The new posts at district level
are being filled by intemal re-adjustment. North West Frontier Province has filled district posts
through a merit-based selection process. Similar process is also being used in appointment of staff
to the district management posts. Other provinces are yet to implement a similar approach.
*  Job descriptions are being revised and developed for the newly created posts. A start has also
been made to improve personnel management. For example in the health sector, Punjab and
North West Frontier Province are increasingly resorting to contract employment in an effort to
reduce absenteeism and be able to fill vacancies in remote rural areas.



Annex E
Page 4 of 5
* Rules of business are being developed and staffs are gradually being trained in all provinces.
Administrative and financial powers have been delegated to the districts including full financial
powers to the Executive District Officers Health. Work on fiscal transfer system is still in
progress and is likely to be fully established by end of this financial year. The plans indicate that
it does not include any mechanism to provide incentives for good performance. The Departments
are planning to assist the districts to develop need-based budgets for the next financial year.
*  There is growing awareness of a need to develop a mechanism to monitor performance of
districts. North West Frontier Province has undertaken Multi Indicator Cluster Survey to measure
outcomes and outputs. Bas;ed on six indicators, districts have been ranked in social development,
identifying districts needing investment and technical support to improve social outcomes.
However, it is not clear whether this important initiative would be undertaken on a regular basis
to guide decision making at the provincial and district level.
* There has been little progress in outlining and implementing district capacity building in
management, monitoring and implementation. However, process is making more progress in
North West Frontier Province. This would be a critical factor in ensuring that the devolution
delivers the benefits by effective management of the district based health delivery systems.
*  The Government is also striving to rationalize investments and make more efficient use of
existing infrastructure. Allocations in the federal budget for health programs were almost
doubled this fiscal year tsing the fiscal space created by donors support after September 11.
Funding for social sectors remains very constrained, however, and needs to be increased as the
fiscal space increases and expenditure management improves. A system to track expenditures on
education and health is also being developed.
* By increased supervision (initially through Army monitoring teams) and taking actions against
staff found absent, absenteeism is reported to have declined during the past year or so. But data
to measure absenteeism or changes in absenteeism is not available. The GoP envisages that
devolved powers of human resource management to the district in the context devolution and
development of communtity accountability mechanisms would ultimately reduce staff
absenteeism. In addition, ]'unjab has also initiated facility-specific contract appointments for new
recruitment, which would be used for all new posts to be created.
* There is gradually increasing awareness of the importance of developing public private
partnerships to improve access to services and increasing efficiency of the system. North West
Frontier Province is already implementing three programs in partnership with the private sector.
Other provinces are in the process of exploring various options.
* Punjab and North West Frontier Province have introduced a larger degree of hospital autonomy in
large teaching hospitals to improve efficiency and quality of health care. The hospital autonomy
bill for managerial and financial authority has been enacted in both provinces and detailed rules
of business developed and implemented. Administrative and financial powers have been
devolved to the Hospital Chief Executives. Cost recovery has been introduced in some areas;
however, there has been no progress in developing a mechanism to protect the poor. The
functioning of the hospitals is reported to have improved especially availability of essential
medicines and staff presence.
8.     Satisfactory progress is being to de-federalize the population program, including amendment in
the 1983 ordinance, transfer of 11,000 employees to the provincial governments; development of revised
organizational structures and functions of the federal and provincial departments. A set of monitoring
indicators has been agreed to monitor progress. The orientation of District governments has been initiated



Annex E
Page 5 of 5
to ensure that District Governments give priority to family planning services. The key challenge would
be inadequate managerial capacity at the provincial and district level to implement the new
responsibilities and likely slow the progress in improving population outcomes.
Opportunities and Challenges
9.     The government's medium term health and population strategy is rightly focused on raising
public sector health expenditures, while concentrating on prevention and control programs, especially in
the area of reproductive health, child health, nutrient deficiencies and communicable diseases.
Programmatic priorities are appropriate and include updated strategies against Tuberculosis and malaria,
introduction of Hepatitis B vaccination and plans to expand the response to HIV/AIDS. The management
reforms in the context of devolution also have the potential to improve governance and service delivery
with increased accountability to local communities, if effectively implemented. However, as in other
sectors, there are gaps and areas where further work is still needed. The critical challenges include:
*  In some critical areas strategies are emerging but they would need further elaboration. These
include: development of public-private partnerships, including private sector regulatory
mechanisms and non-governmental organizations contracting for delivery of services;
strengthening of district capacity; strengthening routine immunization and use of Global Alliance
of Vaccine Initiative resources and improving reproductive health.
*  Policy and detail plans need to be developed for: nutritional problems of women and children;
health awareness and behavior change; consumer accountability; human resource development
and incentive based performance assessment system; and relationship with other sectors affecting
health-water and sanitation; and education.
*  Inadequate managerial capacity at the district level is a key challenge. As the devolved district
health departments implement the new responsibilities, failure to enhance local capacity may lead
to further deterioration in health outcomes. A good example during this financial year was a
delay in procurement of medicines as Districts grappled with procurement rules and procedures.
*  Another critical area of concern is federal and provincial capacity to provide technical assistance
to poorly performing districts. There appears to be increased awareness of the importance of this
function especially in the Federal Ministry of Health and the provincial Departments of Health in
North West Frontier Province and Sindh. This thinking needs to be translated into a concrete
plan of action.
* The federal and provincial governments also need to ensure that District Governments give
priority to services that are cost-effective and have the greatest potential for improving health
outcomes. These services include immunization, maternal and child health, family planning and
the prevention of communicable diseases. This would require close oversight to ensure that these
services are adequately financed either through earmarking part of the resources transferred to
District Governments or through retention of discretionary funds with provincial governments to
be used as incentives.
*  It is also important that the federal and provincial governments monitor the performance of
districts through an adequate information system to inform decision makers at all levels of
government. The districts need to be assisted to make appropriate changes if results are not being
achieved. Key areas to monitor include quality of health care and access of the poor to services.



Annex F
Page I of 7
EDUCATION SECTOR - STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES
Background
1.     Pakistan has made significant achievements in sustaining economic growth levels and reducing
income poverty during the decades up to the mid-1990s, yet relatively little progress has been made in
achieving improvements in human development outcomes. The "human development gap", i.e. what one
might expect for the country's income level and what is actually observed, is large and growing. Trends
in education outcomes are particularly disappointing. At the beginning of the 21"t century only one in two
children aged 5-9 attends school, and perhaps as many as half of primary school graduates are
functionally illiterate. Gender and urban/rural gaps in literacy and enrollment have narrowed but remain
significant.
2.     Primary enrollment, as measured by the gross enrollment rate (GER) showed some improvement
between 1991 and 1995/96 (from 65% to 70%) but none thereafter (falling to 69% in 1998-99)1. The net
primary enrollment rate is in the order of 50%. The trend is generally more positive in urban areas. The
gender gap in enrolment declined in both rural and urban areas, but the rural gap fell more due to falling
male enrollments rather than growing female enrollments. There is a strong correlation between
household income and school enrolment, with upper income groups having markedly higher school
enrollment rates. During the nineties inequality in enrolment rates increased, with enrolment rates among
households in the bottom half of the income distribution actually declining whilst those in the top quintile
continued to improve.
3.     Literacy for the whole of IPakistan in 1998-99 is estimated at 43%. Both female and male literacy
rates have increased during the nineties, but at 27% the female literacy rate lags that of males (58%) by a
significant margin. Although adult literacy rates are similar across South Asian countries today,
Pakistan's lower school enrolment rates and poor quality education mean that it will lag behind its
neighbors in improving literacy in the future.
4.     As a provincial subject, education has been seriously affected by the public finance and
governance crisis that has faced all four provinces in the past five years. Low public expenditure on
education, poor financial management practices, insufficient and delayed transfer of funds to schools,
together with high incidence of teLcher absenteeism, frequent transfers at the provincial and district level
of administrative staff, and weak mnanagement and implementation capacity have all played a role in the
poor results. Moreover, increasing levels of poverty, and a fast growing population that is producing the
largest cohort of school-entry-aged children Pakistan's public education system has ever faced further
compound the problems of the education sector.
5.     The decline in public confdence of the government's delivery system has been accompanied by a
significant growth of an un-regulated yet demand-responsive private sector in schooling, both in the urban
and rural areas. Enrollment in private primary schools is now in the order of 28% of total enrollment, up
from 14% in 1991. At the secondary level private schools account for 17% of enrollment compared to
8% in 1991. Enrollment in private schools has been on the increase for girls as well as boys, in rural as
well as urban areas and among all income categories, although it is more predominant among urban
middle and upper income families. Although little is known of the quality of private schools, their
growing popularity suggests that they compare well and indeed out-perform many government schools.
PIHS data. Pakistan's own estimnates using administrative data suggest a higher GER of 89%.



Annex F
Page 2 of 7
New Strategic Directions for Education
6.     The Government has become increasingly concerned with the lack of progress in the education
sector, indeed a sector where the "development gap" has widened in recent years. In the past two years, a
number of actions have been taken - most recently, the Pakistan Human Development Forum was staged
-- which culminate in a generally held view that the of Pakistan now has a credible strategy to make
progress towards achieving the MDGs for education. Contrary to the past, there is now strong leadership
in the education sector at both the Federal level and in all four provinces, and there is a vision, a clear
sense of direction, and strong commitment to make a difference. In addition, the IPRSP has improvement
in education outcomes as one of its four core pillars, and the devolution/decentralization of opens
avenues to accelerate improvement in service delivery. Each of these important initiatives is briefly
discussed below.
7.     The Government's Interim PRSP. The I-PRSP focuses on unleashing growth, creating income-
generating opportunities, reducing vulnerability to shocks as well as improving indicators of human
development The I-PRSP sets ambitious targets for improving education sector outcomes, to be
monitored on a regular basis. Targets are set for increasing literacy, gross primary enrolment, middle
school and secondary enrolment and higher education, by the year 2004. The IPRSP builds in new
mechanisms to track and monitor poverty related expenditures, and intermediate indicators and outcomes.
One of the challenges that government faces as it sets about this task is the collection of reliable data
against which progress can be monitored. At the present time administrative data are unreliable and
household survey data can only track certain indicators and at a relatively aggregated level. An upshot of
this situation is lack of agreement among various interest groups on baseline indicators such as gross and
net enrollment rates.
8.     Devolution and decentralization to local governments. The Government has begun a major
initiative to devolve power and responsibilities, including those related to social services, from the federal
and provincial governments to elected district level authorities and local councils. Elected Nazims and
other local government officials assumed authority for local government in August 2001. Full
administrative and inter-governmental fiscal arrangements are still under review and will be implemented
over the next 1-2 years. Under the new district based system the Government expects that public sector
effectiveness and efficiency will be enhanced through bringing those responsible for delivering services
closer to their clients, with district governments accountable to their constituent populations.
9.     Education Sector Reforms. Although education is a provincial subject, the Federal Minister of
Education has been successful in building a partnership with provincial education ministers, in
articulating reforms and strategies to implement them. The partnership has been sealed with Memoranda
of Understandings linking federal resource transfers to improvement in education outcomes.
10.    At the core of the federal government's efforts is the Education Sector Reforms (ESR) Action
Plan which seeks to provide national leadership around the Education For All agenda as well as address
major sectoral issues. The ESR is based on a long-term framework linked to Education For All goals
through 2015, with a three-year action plan for 2001-2004. The ESR aims to address some of the critical
failures of the past in the education sector by addressing resource mobilization and utilization, tying funds
to outcomes and introducing institutional reforms at all levels of education to improve govemance. The
strategy for moving towards these goals include a number of components and investments at all levels of
education, including a comprehensive literacy program, expansion of primary and elementary education,
mainstreaming madrassahs, introduction of a technical stream at secondary school level, improving
quality of education through teacher training, higher education sector reforms, and public private sector



Annex F
Page 3 of 7
partnerships. In addition, the ESR encompasses new innovative programs in examination reform, a
national education assessment system, video textbook libraries, early childhood education and an "adopt a
school" program. The Islamabad Capital Territory is being used to pilot a number of the initiatives
including a compulsory primary education ordinance, "adopt a school" program, formation of PTAs, code
of ethics for school based management, school rehabilitation and buildings for shelterless schools, the
recruitment of teachers on contract, introducing training programs for head teachers and learning centers
to improve teachers' academic knowledge, upgrading entry qualifications for teachers and introducing a
teacher focused code of ethics; to address chronic teacher absenteeism.  In the context of
devolution/decentralization, governance improvements feature strongly in the ESR. Mechanisms are
being developed to streamline school govemance, citizens community boards, and School Management
Committees, with the latter to be given responsibility for some elements of monitoring and supervision of
teacher performance.
1l.   The ESR places a high priority on strengthening public private partnerships in the delivery of
education services. Incentives to the private sector to establish schools, particularly in rural areas and
urban slums, are to include provision of free or concessional land, non commercial utilities rates, liberal
grant of charters, and exemption cf certain dues and taxes. The Govemment has also taken the lead in
restructuring the National Education Foundation providing it with greater autonomy under the Societies
Act.
Progress with Reform Measures
12.    The Federal ESR. Federal budget allocations for education programs were almost doubled this
fiscal year using the fiscal space created by donors' support after September 11. The Government
increased the allocation to this program from an initial FY02 allocation of Rs. 1.57 billion with an
additional Rs. 2 billion under the President's Rehabilitation Fund. The provincial governments have all
signed contractual agreements with the Federal Ministry of Education to implement the strategic plan of
the ESR and the President's Rehabilitation Fund. In Punjab, agreements between the province and all
district nazims and District Coordinating Officers have also been signed, and fifty percent of funds for
ESR and for rehabilitation of schools have been transferred to the districts.
13.    One of the federal elements of the ESR is a system to assess student and school achievements and
outcomes, known as the National Education Assessment System (NEAS) project. The Bank has been
requested by the MOE to provide support for the establishment of NEAS, and is working very closely
with the Curriculum Wing of the MOE, the lead agency responsible to coordinate the implementation of
activities under NEAS, on this. A Federal PC-1 for the first 16 months has been approved, and an
umbrella five-year PC-1 for the provinces will be approved later.
14.   Two other initiatives of the federal government should be noted. The de-regulation of the
printing of textbooks throughout the entire country, and the formation of a task force on higher education.
The latter is due to report in March 2002.
15.   Provincial Progress.  In parallel with the federal government's ESR initiative, provincial
governments are also beginning to put in place measures that address some of the most fundamental
problems of the system, poor governance, inadequate access, poor quality and insufficient spending
especially on non-salary recurrent budgets. Provinces are implementing measures across the board such
as calling teachers to account through a re-certification process, linking pay with performance (through
monitoring attendance), hiring new teachers on school specific contracts, and exploring ways to use under
utilized school buildings. Education departments are undertaking inventories of unused schools and
investigating options for their utilization, inter-alia, through "contracting out" to the private sector.



Annex F
Page 4 of 7
16.   The following paragraphs highlight some of the more important actions taken in the past year.
*: Teacher redeployment and contact-based recruitment. Measures have been taken to call
teachers to account through a re-certification process, linking pay with performance (attendance),
hiring new teachers on school specific contracts, and re-deploying teachers from urban areas to
under-served rural schools:
*  In Sindh, for example, as a result of some of these measures including re-deployment and
hiring of 3,000 facility- and contract-based recruitment during FY02 almost 3,800 previously
closed schools have been made functional.
*  In Punjab, efforts have been initiated to rationalize distribution and re-deployment of teachers
based on an EMIS cell facility survey exercise. Also in Punjab, the recruitment ban on
teachers has been lifted and the DOE is planning to recruit 30,000 facility-specific contract-
based teachers.
*  In NWFP, a post-specific recruitment policy is in effect. Education field and administrative
staff have been re-deployed to the district level to create district cadres. NWFP has also
undertaken a re-deployment to rationalize distribution of teachers, redressing the imbalance
whereby more than 2,500 schools had a teacher/student ratio of less than 1:20, and more than
1,100 schools had a ratio above 1:50.
*: Monitoring teacher attendance.  Each province has started to seriously monitor teacher
attendance. Anecdotal evidence, supported by departmental reports, is that staff attendance
pattems have improved as a result of more vigilant monitoring and disciplinary action being taken
against routinely absent teachers.  With the establishment of district govemments, the
responsibility for this now rests with the districts. The provinces will continue to have an
oversight and coordinating role, and increasingly communities are being asked to play a
monitoring role.
*  A system of monitoring schools through field visits is being implemented in Sindh. The
District Officers (Education) have made efforts to collaborate with district nazims through
meetings and awareness campaigns to increase their participation in ensuring better
attendance of teachers.
*  Punjab has also designed a system to document monitoring of teacher absenteeism, and has
involved the district nazims in carrying out this monitoring.
*  Similar efforts are underway in NWFP where action has been taken against more than 1,000
teachers as disciplinary measure.
*  In Balochistan, monitoring of staff presence is being done through the regular supervision
system, but more stringent action is being taken against teachers who are absent routinely.
*: To improve quality. New textbooks for lower primary grades, curriculum reform, district-based
teacher training programs, examination reform and education assessment are underway in all
provinces.
* To ensure that adequate and timely operating budgets are provided to the schools, for school-
based purchase of classroom consumables and petty repairs, half of FY02 district education
budgets have been released (at mid-year). Due to the transitional nature of this year in the context
of devolution, the education line departments have not been able to provide transfer of funds



Annex F
Page 5 of 7
directly to the schools, but it is hoped that districts will continue with this arrangement once
financial management syslems are in place.
*: Utilization of schools. At the center of the ESR Action Program is the completion and
rehabilitation of schools. Provincial education departments are undertaking inventories of school
infrastructure and preparing detailed plans of action to complete construction of unfinished
schools (boundary walls, toilets, water and electricity) and provide buildings for shelterless
schools. At the same time, plans for utilization of vacant school buildings are unclerway, with
leasing out of such buildings to the private sector as an emerging solution in many places.
*  Channeling ofpublicfunds to non-government service providers. These are being developed in
all four provinces as well as in ICT, with some interesting initiatives:
*  In Sindh, the DOE has begun the process of leasing school buildings (in-operational
Government schools) to the private/NGO sector, and has also started the process of "de-
nationalization" of schools that were nationalized in 1972 to offer them back for private
management to their original owners. The Sindh Education Foundation has also been
implementing an "Adopt a School Program" through which about 120 schools have been
adopted by private/NGrO sector.
*  In Punjab, the Government has allowed the use of Government education buildings by private
organizations and indi viduals and NGOs for afternoon shifts for educational purposes. About
5,000 such institutions are now reportedly running middle and secondary schools, computer
schools, and other educational activities in the afternoons.
*  Initiatives for public-private partnership are also being taken in NWFP, where the private
sector has introduced computer education in thirty secondary and higher secondary schools
and fuirther activities for private sector/NGO participation are being considered. "Adopt-a
school" program is also being launched.
*  New   Ordinances to regulate private-sector institutions and to restructure Education
Foundations have been passed in Sindh and NWFP.
+ To reduce the costs of atte nding school, free textbook distribution schemes have been initiated in
ICT, Balochistan, and in Sindh for girls, and plans for extending this to boys is also being
considered. Other provinces are also considering adopting this activity. An innovative school
nutrition project (the Tawana Pakistan) is also being launched in 20 districts in the first phase to
target girls between the ages of 5 and 9.
+  Restructuring of the Education Sectorfor Devolution. Several measures have been taken by the
provinces in the context of devolution:
*  District level budgets have been prepared, and funds have been released to the districts.
*  Re-deployment of adrninistrative staff from provincial departments to districts in Punjab,
Sindh and NWFP has taken place. In Balochistan, too, there has been some re-deployment of
staff to strengthen the district administrative structure.
*  The roles and responsibilities of district level authorities have been defined. In Punjab, these
include administrative authority such as recruitment of certain level of staff; granting of leave
of staff up to BS-18; authorizing up-gradation of institutions; identification, preparation and
execution of ADP. In Sindh, these include district level planning and mapping of schools;



Annex F
Page 6 of 7
preparation of budget, its distribution, utilization and audit; registration and supervision of
private schools; monitoring and supervision of all educational institutions; selection of
teachers for training; posting and transfers of staff within the district. In NWFP, the district
authorities have been delegated administrative and financial responsibilities, and have also
been assigned planning and monitoring functions. In Balochistan, the functions of the
Executive District Officers (Education) have been defined to include appointment, posting,
transfer of staff BS-15 and below; preparation of annual budget and proposing of new
schemes for the district; distribution of budget within the district, including authority to re-
appropriate. In addition to the specifics noted above, in all provinces the district authorities
have been charged to promote efficiency in the system, promote avenues for public-private
partnership, and to implement the policies, given as guidelines by the provinces.
Remaining Challenges
17.    Despite the initiatives and encouraging progress made as described above, there are areas in
which further action is needed to bring about sustained improvements in service delivery and
implementation. These remaining challenges are:
18.   Making the system more results oriented and having the data to measure results. The IPRSP
presents benchmarks on the present-day status of social indicators and establishes medium-term targets
for a variety of education indicators. But for benchmarks and targets to have any meaning they need to be
underpinned with a reliable and credible database, as well as backed by the capacity to interpret and
analyze the data. Development of a valid and reliable database for education, from the national to the
provincial to the district level, is essential to facilitate planning, monitoring and evaluation. A valid data
base is especially important at the district level, the critical unit of account, in order to permit district
authorities, for example, to identify needed school sites, to reallocate teachers to achieve maximum
efficiency, and to design incentive programs for both providers and students to increase enrollment and
completion rates. The data base must also be all inclusive so that it captures the provision of private
services as well as Government services. NWFP has made a good start with district level data. Other
provinces need to follow, and for a federal-led effort to compile nationwide data.
19.    Making devolution workfor the social sectors. For the education sector, the devolution initiative
presents an opportunity to further delegate decision-making authority over critical school level matters
(such as spending the non-salary budget) to bodies closest to the school (usually the community). To
make the devolution initiative work for the improvement of service delivery, many steps have been taken
but sustained effort will need to be made during the period of transition to ensure that the new roles and
responsibilities at the district level lead to improvements in service delivery and overall in bringing about
the needed efficiency into the system.
20.    Continuing to improve governance and restore confidence in Government services. Teacher
and other staff absenteeism is only one example of how weak governance threatens the quality of
education service provision-but a critically important one. Community monitoring provides one avenue
to ensure facilities stay open. It is also important to improve official oversight and linkages to systems
that reward good performance. Although positive steps have been initiated to improve governance,
particularly teacher attendance as described above, this needs to be continued and more thought needs to
be given to developing incentive systems and removing other barriers that hamper smooth service
delivery.
21.   Increasingpublic expenditure (findingfiscal space). Raising the level of public spending on the
social sectors is an important medium term goal, and two of the four provinces (Sindh and NWFP) have



Annex F
Page 7 of 7
economic reform programs underway that bear promise to raise revenues and to provide more spending
for the social sectors. Of immediate concern is achieving improvements in the efficiency of present-day
spending. Getting budget allocalions released in a timely fashion to front-line spending agencies as well
as ensuring that allocations are appropriately balanced across salary, non-salary and the development
budget is a top priority. Adequate provision and timely release of the non-salary recurrent budget is
critical to smooth operations at the point of service provision. As the system of fiscal transfers to the
district level and financial reporting from the district level to the provincial level develops, it will be
critical to ensure a timely flow of funds to the districts, and from the districts to the facility level.
22.    Creating institutions to oversee the private sector, and further expanding public-private
partnership. Private schooling is growing in importance, both in urban and rural areas, and enrollment in
private primary schools is estimated to be about 28% of total enrollment. Already several innovative
programs have been initiated to test and expand public-private partnership in education. Building on
these, the Government is acting in two other areas: (i) creating the institutions that will oversee the
activities of the private sector. hi some cases these can be the very same institutions that oversee the
activities of the public sector, such as student assessment and examination bodies; and (ii) using public
funding to ensure that poor peop]e who access social services from private providers because there is an
absence of public sector provision are not disadvantaged. There are a wide variety of instruments that
could be considered-vouchers, funding places in private schools-and it is encouraging to know that the
federal education ministry is keen to experiment with these instruments.
23.    Finally, moving on implementation. Government's ability to deliver on policies and strategies,
and to successfully implement programs and deliver quality services to the people of Pakistan remains the
biggest challenge of all. The SAP strategy, for example, was well-conceived but it was never fully
implemented, in part because it was too over-whelming. Learning from the experiences of the past, the
Government has clearly articulated its focus of the education program on fixing the problems in
implementation. The reform measures that have already been introduced focus on bringing about the
improvements in implementation and service delivery at the school level. It will be essential to sustain
these efforts in order to restore amd further build the confidence of the people in the public system of
delivery.



Annex G
Page I of 12
POWER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Background
1.    Pakistan's commercial energy demand grew rapidly in the 1980s and early 1990s, in response to
the overall growth of the economy. However, the expansion of the power sector did not keep pace.
Electricity reached only about 50 percent of the population, mostly urban, all while power shortages
became increasingly sever constraining the prospects for economic growth.
2.     Cognizant of this problem, the Government of Pakistan (GoP) launched a comprehensive
program of power sector reforms, which were articulated in its 1992 A Strategic Plan for the
Restructuring and Privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector. This Plan aimed at attracting private
investment, improving the performance of public utilities, and market liberalization. The strategy was
based on: (i) encouraging private investment in new thermal generating capacity (the March 1994
Independent Power Producer Policy); (ii) establishing an independent regulatory agency; (iii) unbundling
the public sector utilities under WAPDA towards their privatization; and (iv) developing a Hydel Policy
to attract private investment in hydropower.
3.     Of all the above, most progress was achieved in developing the IPP sector. The 1994 IPP Policy
evoked considerable interest from the private sector, and projects amounting to about 3,150 MW of new
thermal generating capacity, in addition to the 1,292 MW Hub Power Plant, were commissioned. The
1,600 MW Kot Addu Power Plant was privatized in 1996, through the sale of 36 percent shares, with
management control, to a strategic investor.
4.     However, implementation of the other components of the Strategic Plan was delayed. The
government faced resistance to the planned unbundling and privatization of WAPDA. The teams charged
with preparing the unbundling/restructuring program of WAPDA, were not appointed until 1997. The
new regulatory agency (NEPRA) was established only in late 1997. Meanwhile, economic growth had
slowed down, and power sales grew much slower than anticipated. While power generation shortages
were eliminated following the commissioning of the IPPs, the additional financial burden associated with
this new generation capacity was not compensated by either an expansion of power markets or tariff
increases. This, coupled with the continued failure to arrest technical and commercial loses and improve
the overall efficiency of the sector, led to a financial crisis in both WAPDA and KESC. In the meantime,
accusations that the IPP deals had been marred by corruption also eroded investors' confidence in the
country.
Accelerating Power Sector Reforms (1998-2000)
5.     Starting in late 1998, the government addressed the crisis in the power sector by accelerating
reforms. The program for the restructuring and unbundling of WAPDA gained momentum, as did the
plans to improve operational and financial performance. In November 1998, the government issued a
new Policy Statement on Power Sector Reforms, which reiterated the Government's commitment towards
the program, identified targets to be achieved, and assigned specific responsibilities for implementation.
A new management team was inducted in WAPDA, and accorded the full authority to implement the
reform program.
6.     Financial Restructuring. A key action taken by the Government in 1999 was to implement a
Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) for WAPDA - whose main objective was to prevent any adverse
impact of WAPDA's finances on the country's macro-economic stabilization program. In 1997 and 1998,



Annex G
Page 2 of 12
WAPDA had not been able to meet its debt servicing liabilities to the government, in addition to building
up large arrears to contractors and fuel suppliers. The key components of the FRP were:
*  Approval by NEPRA of average tariff increases of about 21 % in early 1998, and 10 % in mid-
1999, along with regular filings by WAPDA for future tariff increases; and
* A debt for equity convers.ion of about Rs. 36 billion of WAPDA's past debt servicing liabilities to
the government.
7.     These measures gave respite to the financial situation. The utility's annual revenues, which
averaged about Rs 100 billion p.a. in 1997 and 1998, rose to about Rs 131 billion in FY2000 (Table A.2)
and WAPDA remained largely current on its debt servicing liabilities to the government while the
backlog of arrears to fuel suppliers and contractors was eliminated. Important progress was also achieved
in reducing the stock of receivables, from around Rs 48 billion on June 30, 1999 to about Rs 40 billion by
June 2000, and Rs 35 billion by June 2001, equivalent to about 3 months of billing (Table A.3). The
latter was largely achieved because through the timely collection of private bills, which was (and has been
maintained) close to 100 percent.
8.     Corporatization. The process towards the unbundling of WAPDA gained some momentum. Its
power operations were reorganized into eight distribution companies, a transmission and dispatch
company (NTDC), and three generation companies - incorporated under the 1984 Companies Ordinance,
with their own management and Boards of Directors. WAPDA remained responsible for developing
hydropower resources and operating the hydropower plants. Annual accounts started to be prepared on a
disaggregated basis, and for the corporate entities these are audited by private/commercial auditors, as
required by the Companies Ordinance. The program evolved to have disaggregated financial projections
for each entity.
9.     Regulatory Framework. Development of the regulatory framework also had important progress.
NEPRA notified its main rules (for Tariff Setting, License Applications by Discos and Gencos, etc), and
prepared a time-frame for finalizing the remaining Rules and Standards. A number of hearings on tariff
and license applications, which are open to the public (and thus help to improve transparency and public
perceptions about the affairs of ihe utilities), have been held. Following a tariff petition filed by the
Government in mid-2000, NEPRk adopted a formula for passing the impact of changes in fuel costs to
consumers, through quarterly adjustments in tariffs.
10.    Governance and Efficiency Improvements. The new WAPDA management launched a strong
initiative to improve governance in the power sector, enhance efficiency and customer satisfaction, and
expand supplies/access, especially to the rural population and to poorer sections of the society. Particular
attention was accorded to addressing systemic issues in the sector, to reduce electricity theft and losses,
root out corruption and improve oloerational efficiency.
The Current Financial Situation (Fiscal Year 2002)
11.    The reform process that wias re-launched in 1998 was not implemented with enough consistency
and determination to avoid yet another crisis. As in the past, the rising costs of having the IPP sector
coming fully on board were riot compensated by a growing customer base, enough efficiency
improvements, or adequate and consistent tariff policies. As a result, WAPDA's finances again came
under severe strain. For example, almost no structural tariff increases have been allowed by NEPRA in
the past two years. As a result, average tariffs have declined not only in real terms, but also in nominal
terms (given the change in consumer mix, see Table A.1). WAPDA estimates also indicate that in the
past four years the additional fuel[ costs it has had to bear on account of fuel price increases amount to
about Rs. 80 billion while it was able to recover only about Rs. 13 billion through tariff adjustments



Annex G
Page 3 of 12
allowed by NEPRA under the automatic fuel cost adjustment mechanism. The range of tariffs across
consumer categories and slabs is also very wide - from Rs. 1.40/kWh for the lowest slab of residential
consumers to around Rs. 7/kWh for the highest residential slab, and for industrial/commercial consumers.
This pattern is not efficient, as consumers in the low tariff slabs receive large subsidies, while commercial
and industrial consumers have an incentive to switch to self-generation, thereby depriving the entities of
their best customers. Rationalization of the tariff structure is thus a key priority. WAPDA's current cash
flow projections are as follows:
Table 1: WAPDA's Summary Cash Flow Statement (FY01-04)
(at current tarif levels in Rs. billion)
FY01      FY02       FY03       FY04
Total Cash Collection           159.5     178.6      187.6     188.5
Private Power Cost              - 84.6   - 108.7    - 105.8    - 100.1
Fuel Cost                       - 29.2    - 35.1     - 38.2    - 39.2
Debt Service -GOP               - 20.2    - 20.2    - 23.0     - 21.0
Debt Service -- other than GOP  -9.1      - 12.7     - 10.8     - 9.3
Operational Costs and other      9.58/    - 21.8    - 25.2     - 26.9
Net Cash available before        6.9      -19.9      - 15.4     -8.0
Investment program
Investment Program
Foreign Component               - 14.2    - 13.0     - 15.9     - 8.8
Local Comnponent                - 6.9     - 7.5      - 12.8     - 8.9
Foreign Financing committed     14.2       13.0      15.9       8.8
Local Financing needed          - 6.9     - 7.5      - 12.8     - 8.9
Total financing gap              0        - 27A      - 28.2    - 16.9
a/ Includes rollover of bonds.
12.    The underlying assumptions for these projections are: (a) the stock of arrears from the public
sector at the end of FY02 will have declined by Rs 6.5 billion with respect to the beginning of FY02; (b)
the stock of arrears from the public sector in FY03 will decline by a further Rs 7 billion; and (c) oil
prices-which have a strong bearing on IPP energy purchase costs, will be at the level of December 2001.
According to GOP, the stock of arrears during FY02 can only be reduced by Rs 2 billion instead of Rs 6.5
billion. Accordingly, the financing gap for FY02 has been adjusted to increase by Rs 4.5 billion and to
reach about Rs 32 billion as presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Revised Financial Position and Financing Plan
(in Rs Billion)
FY02        FY03        FY04
Financing Gap                                      32.0        28.2        16.9
Financing Gap projected by WAPDA (Table 1)         27.4        28.2        16.9
Increase in gap due to smnaller reduction in public sector  4.5  0          0
arrears than assumed
Deferral/Carry-over of DSL                         -20.0      + 20.0        0
Total financing gap                                12.0        48.2        16.9
Interim structural tariff increase to be determined  0.5        0           0
Structural tariff increase (16.2% from July 1, 2002)  0        23.0        28.5
Conversion of overdue DSL into equity                0         20.0         0
Remaining Gap                                      11.5         5.2       111.61
Non-Tariff measures by GOP                          tbd         0           0
Borrowing                                           tbd        -5.2       [11.6]
Final Gap                                            0          0           0



Annex G
Page 4 of 12
The Financial Improvement Plan (FY2002-2004)
13.   The Government and WAPDA have adopted a number of measures to restore the financial
viability of WAPDA, through a Financial Improvement Plan (FIP). The Government and WAPDA are
committed to this FIP, and will urtdertake all actions required for ensuring that it is fully implemented.
This FIP is also being complemenied by a time-bound plan to complete the corporatization of WAPDA
and the privatization program of the power sector. Regarding the FIP, the Government and WAPDA
established the following targets and assumptions for the period FY02-04:
Full and timely implementation of the fuel adjustment clause. Any delayed adjustment will
be accounted for in the next adjustment to make up for the expected revenue shortfall.
The "automatic" fuel adjustment clause mechanism would be revised so that any tariff
reduction on account olF lower fuel prices would only take place if the structural tariff in place
is consistent with the revenue targets agreed under the FIP.
•  The growth of WAPDA's administrative expenses would be in line with performance
improvement plan (15% in FY02 and no more than 10% per years during FY03 and FY04).
* WAPDA would achieve the target reduction of technical and non-technical losses by 1.5%
each year, to reach a level of 21.6% by end-FY04.
* The volume of average receivables from all consumers would not be more than two months
or 16% of average billing for FY03 and FY04.
* The Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project would be on line during FY04, starting with the
commissioning of the first generation units from June 2003.
Financing Plan for FY02
14.   The financing of the Rs 32 billion gap for FY02 has to be determined. The GoP will undertake
the following policy measures to close the gap:
*  Deferral of debt servicing liability to the GoP to the extent of Rs 13 billion
*  Implementation of the fuel adjustment tariff increase of Rs. 0.045 effective May 15, 2002
* An interim structural tariff increase of Rs. 0.08 effective May 15, 2002
*  Other measures to be determined by the Ministry of Finance in agreement with WAPDA.
Financing Plan for FY03
*  The key of the FIP is a structural tariff increase of 16.2% effective no later than July 1, 2002.
The tariff would enable WAPDA to meet a debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.2 times for
FY03, and of at least 1.5 tinies in FY04. WAPDA would service all its debt to the GoP and would
not require any budgetary support. A financing gap of Rs. 5 billion would be covered through
WAPDA borrowing from the local market.
* The GoP will provide up to Rs. 7 billion to KESC to settle its payables to WAPDA and all other
public sector dues would be cleared during FY03.



Annex G
Page 5 of 12
Financing Plan for FY04
*  For FY04, no new tariff increase is required provided that: (a) the Ghazi Barotha Project is on
line; and (b) fuel prices are at the same level of those prevailing in July 1, 2002.
*  If the above assumptions are met, in FY04 the debt service coverage ratio exceeds 1.5 times and
it would enable provision of support to the weaker Discos without affecting the financial strength
of more viable entities.
Future Outlook and Monitoring of Implementation
15.    The Government and WAPDA are committed to undertake all the measures required for
achieving the technical and financial performance targets, which underlie the FIP. Specifically:
*  WAPDA and its successors and the Government will ensure that public sector arrears will be
restricted to no more than 3 months of average billing. WAPDA also commits to promptly
disconnect any consumer whose current bills are not paid in a timely manner. However, for
socio-economic considerations, electricity supply to certain priority areas or sectors will not be
disconnected.
* The status of receivables from govermment departments and other public sector agencies will be
monitored every quarter by GOP/MOF and WAPDA.
Tariff Structure
* The current tariff filing submitted to NEPRA requests an average increase in tariffs of Rs. 0.58
per kWh out of which Rs. 0.08 per KWh has already been allowed by NEPRA. The lifeline
support rates and increase in individual category of consumers will be decided by NEPRA as per
government policy. However, the overall average increase would be sufficient to meet the targets
of the Financial Improvement Plan. Further reductions in cross-subsidies will be implemented
throughout FY04 if subsequent tariff adjustments are called for.
Corporatization
16.    The unbundling and corporatization of WAPDA's power wing is targeted to be completed by
end-December 2002, once NEPRA has issued licenses to all entities. Concurrently, the staff and
assets/liabilities of WAPDA are being transferred to the respective entities and to (the residual) WAPDA.
All of WAPDA staff in Grades 1-16 have been transferred to the entities (and WAPDA) and have signed
formal contracts with the respective entities, for their re-employment as the entities' employees. The
transfer of officers (Grade 17 and above) requires a resolution of certain issues relating to seniority and
promotions etc., for which WAPDA and PEPCO will issue the required Notifications by end-September
2002. In the interim, a set of arrangements will be put in place, which provide adequate autonomy to
corporate entities in managing human resource issues for all officers.
17.    The Government has approved a set of principles for the transfer of WAPDA assets and liabilities
to the entities, to be embodied in Supplementary Business Transfer Agreements (SBTAs) between
WAPDA and each entity, which include decisions on the legal basis for each entity to take over and fully
service the corresponding debt liabilities - through Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs); the basis for
establishing transfer prices between the generation/transmission and transmission/distribution entities;
and the principle to be adopted for maintaining the financial viability of weaker Discos.



Annex G
Page 6 of 12
18.   The current status and future program of actions, all to be completed in the next 6 months are as
follows:
* Licensing: Ongoing
> Licenses issued to all Distribution entities (Discos) - done at end-April 2002
> Licenses issued to all Generation entities (Gencos) - programmed for end-June 2002
> License issued to transmission entity (NfDC) - programmed for end-December 2002
* Finalizing SBTAs:
> Government approval of the principles, including draft SBTA - done at end-April 2002
> Lenders consent to the principles
> Finalization/executionl of SBTAs, including SLAs
* Transfer prices, and protecting finances of weaker entities/Discos:
> Govemment approval of principles - done at end-April 2002
> Developing detailed modalities
> Adoption of approved principles
Regulatory Framework and Mairket Structure
19.   The next steps in developing the regulatory framework need to be coordinated closely with the
Government's plans and vision en the future market structure, including the time-frame for introducing
competition. The Government wants to introduce competition in the sector as soon as feasible. This
includes (i) competition for the market - i.e. competitive bidding for new (thermal) generating capacity;
and (ii) competition in the markel. - allowing consumers (starting with bulk power consumers) the choice
of generator from who they would like to purchase electricity. The NEPRA Act (Section 22) allows
generators or Discos to sell directly to bulk power consumers located in the service territory of other
Discos. The Discos are thus required to provide "third party access" on a non-discriminatory basis to
other suppliers, to sell electricitv to bulk consumers - a Provision under Section 22 of NEPRA Act
protects the Discos against the less of their most profitable consumers. The Government now needs to
provide Policy guidelines to NEI'RA, PEPCO and the entities on its vision and objectives for the long-
term structure of the power sector, and time-frame for introducing competition.
20.    Preparation of a transition plan for moving towards a competitive market structure has been
initiated. A workshop was orgar.ized jointly by the Bank and PEPCO in May 2001, to review with all
stakeholders the key issues involved in introducing competition in the power sector. Following that
workshop, a discussion paper (on Transitional Wholesale Power Supply Arrangements) was prepared by
the Bank, and distributed to the Government, WAPDA/PEPCO, and NEPRA, in July 2001. In March
2002, PEPCO/GOP also constituied two working groups, to prepare the technical and commercial rules
for operation of the power market. The next steps on the market structure would include:
*  Policy Committee, chaired by Finance Minister, and including representation from MOF, MWP,
MPNR, PC and MCA, to ibe set up
*  Working groups to prepare draft technical and commercial rules for the operation of the power
market
*  Bank mission to review with Working Groups and other stakeholders the July 2001 discussion
paper, and the draft rules prepared by the Working Groups
*  Workshop on next steps and preparation of Policy Guidelines
*  Finalization of Policy Guidelines, approval and issuance of guidelines/directives to NEPRA,
PEPCO and entities



Annex G
Page 7 of 12
Privatization
21.    The Government is keen to initiate, and accelerate, the privatization of the power sector, and has
initiated the privatization of KESC (with support from the ADB) on a fast track basis. Bidding is
scheduled for July 2002 and the transaction is expected to be completed in September 2002.
Concurrently, the Privatization Commission has re-initiated work on the privatization of the Faisalabad
Electric Supply Company (FESCO), and the financial advisory contract with the International Finance
Corporation (EFC) has been re-activated. Expressions of interest for financial advisory services for the
privatization of one Genco (Jamshoro Power Generation Company) are being invited. Both these
companies are scheduled for privatization in FY03. The program for privatization of the rest of the
WAPDA's successor entities will be finalized once the ongoing transactions are at a more advanced stage.
Governance and Efficiency Improvement Initiatives
22.   In early 1999, WAPDA management, with support from the army, undertook a 100% survey of
all customer premises to physically inspect the: (a) status of connection; (b) condition of the meter; and
(c) status of payment of past bills. Illegal connections detected during this survey were disconnected
immediately. A number of procedural simplifications were introduced for regularizing such connections,
after payment of the applicable fines or penalties. As a result, the number of new connections provided
during FY00 and 01 increased by about 50% relative to the annual target achieved in FY99 (Table A.3).
Finally, a concerted effort was launched to reduce the stock of government/public sector (as well as
private) receivables. This included detailed exercises to reconcile and settle past arrears, write-offs by
WAPDA of amounts, which were not reconciled, and timely payment of bills by the government and
public sector agencies. Table A.3 highlights the improvements achieved in public as well as private
sector billing and collection performance during the past three years.
23.    Improvements in Customer Services: It was recognized that a number of procedural bottlenecks
contributed to the incidence of theft/illegal connections, and if adequately tackled could contribute to
significant operational improvements. The following actions were, therefore, taken:
*  To decentralize operations and provide closer supervision, full-fledged operational teams were
provided for: (a) relatively smaller localities, measured by number of connections; (b) areas
having higher than the average system loss levels; or (c) sub-divisions showing greater (10%)
revenue collection compared to the average for a distribution company.
*  In order to improve meter reading, a number of steps were taken: (a) defective meters were
replaced expeditiously, and the new meters were placed outside the premises in security boxes;
(b) consumer meter reading cards were placed in the premises without fail; (c) meter readers were
required to enter the meter reading on Meter Reading cards; (c) frequent rotation of the meter
readers was ensured, and supervisors were required to double-check at least 15% of large-
customers readings, and 20 domestic customers per week; and (d) senior officers were required to
check a sample of customers meters.
*  Customer Services Centers were established at Circle-level in each Distribution Company for
one-window operation in: (a) prompt bill corrections, and issuance of duplicate bills, if necessary;
(b) correction of meter readings at customer behest, pending verification; (c) handling of
customer complaints; and (d) reconnections/restoration of supplies.
*  Concerted efforts in removing the large backlog in applications for new connections were
initiated, and simplified forms for new connections were introduced.
*  Special staff was deputed in each sub-division to promptly implement the Equipment Removal
Orders, and recovery of arrears from defaulters.



Annex G
Page 8 of 12
Administrative Actions
24.    In conjunction with the procedural improvements, strong administrative actions were initiated
both within and outside the organization. Some of the significant steps are as follows:
* A comprehensive drive to control theft of electricity, through the connivance of WAPDA staff,
was launched and corruplion cases were instituted and expeditiously decided during the last three
years (Table 3).
Table 3: Admiinistrative Measures taken by WAPDA, 1999- 2001
Officers  Staff   Total             Remarks
Cases Pending: Jan 1, 1999     2,664    9,429  12,093
Cases Added: Jan 99 - Mar 01   2,742   12,210   14,952
Cases Decided up to Mar 2001   4,739   20,068  24,807
Cases Pending: Mar 2001          725    1,641   2,366
Punishment Awarded             1,694   13,155  14,849    Removal/Dismissal/Retirements
Source: WAPDA
*  An extensive anti-theft drive and arrears collection campaign was launched. As a result, about
9929 theft cases were instituted against different customers, and a sum of Rs. 1492 million was
recovered against detecticn bills (out of a total amount of Rs. 3595 million).
*  A targeted exercise in regularizing illegal connections was initiated. As part of this exercise, 1.8
million new single- and three-phase meters were procured, and expeditious regularization of
connections was ensured. These measures resulted in about 1.47 million (both new and
regularized) connections during Jan 1999-Mar 2001 period.
25.    Not withstanding provision of additional customer services and new connections, the overall
manpower strength of WAPDA and its corporatized entities was rationalized through a restructuring and
right-sizing program, as follows (Table 4):
Table 4: Manpower Restructuring and Right-Sizing
Sanctioned Strength  Projected Strength  Total Manpower      Percentage
(as of 1998 / 2000)    (June 2001)      Reduction           Reduction
Power Wing              1I42,243             117,894          24,349           17.12%
Water Wing                10,752               8,165           2,587          24.06%
Head Office                5,331               4,197            1,134         21.27%
Total                    1'8,326             130,256          28,070           17.73%
Source: WAPDA
Main Achievements
26.    Tangible results have been achieved through improved governance, and implementation of
efficiency improvement measures, evidenced by the following:
*  Technical and operational performance indicators of WAPDA showed significant improvements
during FY1999-01. Ovex all electricity losses were gradually reduced, and distribution losses
were recorded at 18 percent in FY2001, as compared to 20 percent in FY2000 and 21 percent
during FY99 (Table A.3 provides statistics on technical and operational performance).
*  The latest estimates of losses reflect a much better metering and recording of electricity sales, and
are therefore a more accurate estimate of the level of losses than was the case in previous years.



Annex G
Page 9 of 12
27.     In parallel with governance and efficiency improvement measures, attention was given to
improve the quality and reliability of power supply to the customers. New HT/LT lines and transformers
were added, and damaged transformers replaced. Distribution companies Field Stores were stocked with
commonly used item through fresh procurements, so that breakdown of supplies could be quickly
handled. Special attention was given to the safety of operations, so that fatal and non-fatal accidents
could be minimized. Measures were taken to reduce the incidence of tripping and other breakdowns in
supply. Table 5 provides details of the qualitative improvement in system supplies.
Table 5: Improvements in Quality and Reliability of Power Supply
FY2001   FY2000    FY1999             Remarks
Distribution System Augmentation:
II KV HT Line (km)                190,922   187,677  184,470  Additional HT/LT lines and
440/220 V LT Line (k1m)            128,354  126,011   122,766  transformers were added to meet
Distribution Transformers (MVA)     19,537   n.a.      n.a.   increased demand, and improve
Distribution Transformers (No)    288,711    n.a.      n.a.   voltage profile
Stock Balance of Distribution Co:       5,927     8,813     2,350  Stocks such as transformers,
Transformers - all types (No)      20,096    23,838     8,032  conductor, insulators, pole, meters,
Conductor - all types (km)        368,426   142,775    68,986  fuse, clamps, etc were replenished
Meters - all types                                            to attend to customer complaints
Safety of Operations (six months):      34        32       64     There was slight deterioration in
Fatal: Employees/General Public    14        9        31     safety during July 2001
Non-fatal: Employees/Gen. Public
Tripping:                               44,375   45,757    n.a.   Reduction in tripping is observed
Below 20 minutes (No)               5,716    5,708    n.a.
Above 20 rninutes (No)              23.2      24.4    n.a.
Tripping/100 km < 20 min (No)        3.0       3.0    n.a.
Tripping/100 km > 20 mi (No)
Source: WAPDA Distribution Statistics, July 2001
Other Remaining Issue: Financing the Power Sector Investments
28.     Another area of concern is the financing of the entities' investment programs. WAPDA has
historically financed a significant part of its investment requirements from internally generated funds
(around 40%). The remainder is financed through borrowings from the Bank and other lenders (for
projects financed by those lenders) and domestic borrowing, which is largely through WAPDA Bonds.
Given its financial difficulties, in recent years it has been difficult for WAPDA to generate adequate
internal resources for meeting its capital expenditure requirements. In addition, the capacity of local
capital markets to meet the funding needs of the power sector is very limited. Some information on the
level and sector wise allocation of domestic credit expansion is provided in Table 6 below. Most of the
allocation in recent years has been for the Government's borrowing requirements, while the allocation for
Autonomous Bodies (which includes WAPDA and other entities in the energy sector) was only Rs 3.1
billion in FY2000 and Rs 7.4 billion in FY01. Not only are the amounts very small relative to the
requirements, local banks and financial institutions generally are unable to provide long-term funding,
which is essential for financing long-gestation investments in the energy sector. WAPDA's investment
program had thus been significantly reduced - from a peak of about Rs 29 billion in FY96 to Rs 16
billion in FY99. This reduction has not only restricted the pace at which certain priority projects (e.g.
Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project) can be implemented, it also constrains WAPDA (and the entities)
ability to implement efficiency improvement programs - e.g. the Energy Loss Reduction program, or the
expansion and upgrading of the transmission (notably secondary transmission) grids - which are essential
for enhancing the availability of power to consumers.



Annex G
Page 10 of 12
T'able 6: Domestic Credit Expansion
(Rs billions)
FY 1997   FY 1998   FY 1999  FY 2000   FY 2001
Public Sector           80.9      56.7     -74.5      78.0    -46.9
Autonomous Bodies       -0.2      -0.9      13.1      3.1       7.4
Private Sector          62.1     84.3     105.8      23.1      61.3
Other                    5.0      26.9       0.3      14.5     30.9
Domestic Credit Exp.   147.8       167      44.7     118.7     52.7
Table A.1: Electricity tariffs by Consumer Category: 1996-2001
(paisa/kWh)
FY96     FY97    FY98     FY99     FY00    FY01
Domestic                    146.00   117.00  223.00  247.00   243.00  259.00
Commercial                 534.00   615.00   702.00  698.00   698.00  704.00
Industry                    335.00  391.00   444.00  417.00   417.00  416.00
Bulk supply                 275.00  355.00   419.00  437.00   437.00   424.00
Agriculture                 161.00   192.00  206.00  344.00   281.00   258.00
SYSTEM Average             223.90   269.60   319.00  348.00   339.00  337.00
Electricity tariffs in real terms (paisa/kWh): 1990-91 = 100
Domestic                     86.28   61.85   109.34   114.53  108.78   116.35
Commercial                 315.58   325.09   344.19  323.66   312.46   316.26
Industry                    197.98  206.68   217.69   193.36  186.67   186.88
Bulk supply                 162.52   187.65  205.43  202.63   195.62   190.48
Agriculture                 95.15    101.49  101.00   159.51  125.79   115.90
SYSTEM Average              132.32   142.51  156.40   161.37  151.75   151.39
Average consumer level tariffs (US cents/kWh)
Domestic                     4.35     4.51     5.16     5.28    4.69     4.43
Commercial                   15.91    15.77   16.25    14.92   13.48    12.04
Industry                     9.98     10.03   10.28     8.91    8.05     7.12
Bulk supply                   8.19    9.10     9.70     9.34    8.44     7.25
Agriculture                  4.80     4.92     4.77     7.35    5.43     4.41
SYSTEM Average               6.67     6.91     7.38    7.44     6.55     5.76
Source: WAPDA and Bank Staff Est mates



Annex G
Page 11 of 12
Table A.2: WAPDA - Key Financial Data (FY95-2002)
FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98    FY99      FYOO     FY01         FY02     Gr. Rate
FY95       FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00 (Prov. Actual) (Projected) (FY95-02)
Total Generation (MkWh)                      46,126     48,859    50,782    53,261    53,485    56,259        58,416     59,870    3.80%
Units Sold (MkWh)                           35,032      36,925   38,529     39,422    38,906     40,910      43,384       45,120    3.68%
Losses (MkWh)                                11,094     11,934   12,253     13,839    14,579     15,349       15,032      14,750    4.15%
Losses %                                     24.1%      24.4%    24.1%      26.0%     27.3%      27.3%        25.7%       24.6%
Income Statement
Operating Revenue (Rs M)                    57,861      77,656   90,824    109,430   123,816    13,1268      144,193     159296    15.57%
Operating Expenses (Rs M)                   37,890      46,263   82,281    102,198    85,580    109,678      142,741     174402    24.37%
IPP costs (% share in Operating Expenses)   0.47%       1.37%  42.92%     52.00%    49.70%     49.93%       59.28%      62.65%
IPP Purchases (% share in total generation)  0.45%     0.90%   21.15%     25.50%    28.33%     31.75%       41.85%      39.95%
Non-Operating Income (Rs. M)                  1,194        918    4,,699     6,479     5,474      2,383       2,622        7705
Net Income for fixed charges (Rs. M)        21,165      32,311   13,242     13,711    43,710     23,973        4,074      -7401
Cash Flow Statement
Debt Service (Rs. M)                         17,158     20,461   22,822     23,763    32,366     39,881      29,327       32328
Capital Expenditures (Rs. M)                21,563      28,898   19,383     17,713    15,891     21,193      23,333       22057
Memo Items
Net internal funds (Rs M)                    11,665     11,447    6,263      7,668    14,477     -1,050        -609       -13130
Net Capital Expenditure - 3 yr ave (Rs. M)  24,674      23,281   21,998     17,662    18,266     23,125      23,031       25729
Self Financing Ratio (%)                     47.3%      49.2%    28.5%      43.4%     79.3%      -4.5%        -2.6%      -51.0%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)             1.5        1.7      0.9        0.9       1.6        0.9         0.6          0.2



Annex G
Page 12 of 12
Table A.3: Selected Performance Statistics (all DISCOs)
FY 98         FY 99      FY 2000       FY 2001
Units Received (million)    46,561.85     46,758.82       48,814        50,667
Units Billed (million)      38,276.37     37,091.23       39,070        41,387
Losses (million unitsi       8,285.48      9,667.59        9,745         9,280
Losses (%)                     17.8%         20.7%        20.0%         18,3%
Jun 98        Jun 99       Jun 00        Jun 01
Consumers                  10,217,072    10,799,635   11,584,657    12,166,344
New Connections                            383,380       707,667       545,920
Receivables (Rs million)      Jun 98        Jun 99        Jun 00       Jun 01
Government                     18,685       27,595        25,668        18,453
Private                        19,183       20,459        14,675        16,546
TOTAL                          37,868       48,054        40,342        34,99
Fiscal Yr.      Billing (Rs.Million)    Collection (Rs.Million)  Collection as % of Billing
Govt.  Pnvat-   TOTAL    Govt     Private  TOTAL    Govt.   Pnvate  TOTAL
FY99       28,951  91,283  120,234  20,113  89,963    110,076     69%    99%       92%
FY00       30,528  115,920  146,448  29,325  111,534  140,859     96%    96%       96%
FY01       38,461  122,690  161,151  45,819  120,630  166,449    119%    98%       109%



MAP SECTION






I



60'  656                    70         J     TAJIKISTAN 75'    (
i          *55   ~     <     - C H I N A
PAKISTAN                                                                                        )
Chral  ~-'       Gli
0   SELECTED CITIES
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAIN ROADS '
      RAILROADS                   >         ;    )  {t  rv  ...................~~~~~~~~~~. ....... .....
RAILROADS
35-                                                                                         M-d-RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDAItIES                                                              App-oxrt   35-
Line f Control
- -   INTERNATIONAL EOLINDARIES
Koat              SE |ARAD ,' and KASHMIR
0      100     200     300 KILOMETERS
0      50     100     151)   200 MILES
t_,                               . ,rE   fl7J /kkor NRP4BFX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k.
AFGHANISTAN                    :                   ,   i       h a
_30       /gvit -<                                                                Ka\                                       0
.   t < , 2 f /  Lahim Khon  ol30-
-  -  -   -  -   ---   -i
BALOC   ISTAN                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L5T  N DC I ttAN  HN
OF IRAN                       S                                     - K or/ h .t                         75-
z  The  do , colors, 7on tns and eytrDonTUshMENIS-nN
-   o 2thsopd  cot ipy o th pai of the) Wol BFGankA '-'ep  an                                          -                     23
25o        d0                                                                      ' 6h
,                                     T _____________________________i____________________________5_ _
Karochi  ;  ~~5Thalta  0go¢;nA        .}  ,  _T.
ARABIAN SEA ; < / v,g,_ _ _' > 5^IOC.115aN ,- .<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
N        .H -- = --==    E  F& 
rhi,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yeo mo o rocrfb h o einUi f h ol o . '9TI,-- 
0  ,   rhehu dories,c lors,den m m e:tion ondo m yos erinherm 90nshote  M   th   f   ~ ~   ~ -   _ <  StNDH 
3    T"  .-                                  ;6;i° d--- i   7. -yh. mf- .  _A                                    7           7   C



