                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25156

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-36550)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 395.2 MILLION
                                (US$500 Million Equivalent)

                              TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF

                                       PAKISTAN

                                        FOR A

                      SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                      June 23, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region

                                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                                 Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKRs)
                                                     US$ 1.00 = PKR 57.00

                                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                                      July 1-  June 30

                                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AsDB    Asian Development Bank                                      MTBF      Medium-Term Budget Framework
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                                 NAB       National Accountability Bureau
CBR     Central Board of Revenue                                    NCBs      Nationalized Commercial Banks
CFAA    Country Financial and Accountability Assessment             NEF       National Education Foundation
CGA     Comptroller General of Accounts                             NEPRA     National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
CPP     Community Participation Project                             NGOs      Non-Government Organizations
DISCOs  Power Distribution Companies                                NRB       National Reconstruction Bureau
DFID    United Kingdom Department for International Development     NSS       National Saving Schemes
ECC     Economic Commission of the Cabinet                          NWFP      North West Frontier Province
ESR     Education Sector Reform                                     OGRA      Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
FCDs    Foreign Currency Deposits                                   PAC       Public Account Committee
FPSC    Federal Public Service Commission                           PAD       Pakistan Audit Department
GAVI    Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization               PIFRA     Improvement to Financial Reporting & Auditing Project
GENCOs  Power Generation Companies                                  PPAF      Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
GST     General Sales Tax                                           PPL       Pakistan Petroleum Limited
HIPC    Highly Indebted Poor Countries                              PRGF      Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
IDA     International Development Association                       PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IFC     International Finance Corporation                           PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IFIs    International Financial Institutions                        PSO        Pakistan State Oil Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund                                 SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
IPPs    Independent Power Producers                                 SAP       Social Action Program
I-PRSP  Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper                    SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
KESC    Karachi Electric Supply Corporation                         SMEDA     Small and Medium Enterprise Development Authority
LGO     Local Government Ordinance                                  SROs      Statutory Regulatory Orders
LHW     Lady Health Worker                                          UNDP      United Nation Development Programme
LPG     Liquefied Petroleum Gas                                     UNICEF    United Nation Children's Fund
MDG     Millennium Development Goals                                WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority




                                               Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
                                             Country Director:    John W. Wall, SACPK
                                              Sector Director:    Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
                                              Sector Manager:     Ijaz Nabi, SASPR
                                              Task Managers:      Manuela Ferro & John Panzer, SASPR

                                          PAKISTAN
                               Structural Adjustment Credit II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P074968                                                      Project Name: Structural Adjustment Credit II
Team Leader: Manuela V. Ferro                                            TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 23, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Structural Adjustment Credit II                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-36550
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (25%); Power (20%); Oil and gas
                            (20%); Sub-national government administration (20%); Health
                            (15%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Other public sector governance
                            (S); Export development and competitiveness (S); Tax policy and
                            administration (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/16/2002                                        Effective:                         06/12/2002
   Appraisal:    05/07/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/11/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          John W. Wall                                        John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Ijaz Nabi
Team Leader at ICR:        Manuela V. Ferro                                    John Panzer
ICR Primary Author(s): Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background


Pakistan's annual per capita growth averaged 3 percent in the 1980s, but only 1.2 percent in the 1990s,
with little reduction of poverty. Social indicators did not improve commensurately with overall economic
growth compared with other countries that had similar incomes and growth rates. Pakistan lagged far
behind in child mortality, female literacy, primary enrollment and other social indicators. The 1990s also
witnessed a large accumulation of public debt as annual fiscal deficits averaged 6 percent of GDP. At the
end of the 1990s, Pakistan faced a financial crisis, domestic tensions, and an unsustainable level of debt
with interest payments consuming half of total tax revenue.

A military government came into power in October 1999, and designed a reform program to modernize
Pakistan and its institutions.   This government learned lessons from the unsuccessful Social Action
Program launched in the 1990s. The main lesson that emerged was that if the social gap were to be closed,
Pakistan would have to improve economic management and governance to achieve growth and opportunity.
To support this effort as well as to revive growth and improve human development and social protection
programs, the Bank worked with the Government on specific reforms and provided a US$350 million credit
(effective June 13, 2001), which was the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC1). Following the first
SAC, the IMF Executive Board approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement (December 6, 2001). The PRGF aimed at increasing the growth potential, improving social
outcomes and reducing vulnerability to shocks. The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) of
US$500 million was effective on June 12, 2002, and supported a deepening of similar areas of reform
initiated under SAC1. Because Bank support of the reforms follows a programmatic approach, while this
ICR focuses on the core program leading up to the disbursement of this single tranche credit, it also charts
continued progress in the follow-on reform program up to the date of the ICR.

Objective

The SAC2 supported the implementation of the Government of Pakistan's (GOP) Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS) which had four pillars:

 · Engendering Growth: The Government aimed to achieve a 5 percent per year growth rate in order to
 reduce poverty more rapidly.       Measures included (a) addressing the debt problem through fiscal
 consolidation and building the base for more rapid and stable export growth in the future; (b) increasing
 revenue mobilization and changing the composition of expenditures to create the fiscal space for social
 sectors and critical infrastructure; and (c) strengthening the business environment by improving the
 credibility and stability of government policies, providing a level playing field to all areas of business,
 removing distortions, reducing the cost of doing business, and implementing power sector reforms to
 improve efficiency and promote macroeconomic stability.

·    Improving Governance: (a) tax administration reforms; (b) devolution of powers to newly established
local governments; (c) improved public financial management; and (d) civil service reforms.            These
measures were aimed at establishing integrity and accountability of state institutions essential to combating
poverty.

·    Improving Human Development: The priority is to improve the delivery system of basic education,



                                                    - 2 -

preventive health care, and family planning while gradually increasing expenditures as the fiscal space is
created through stronger growth, improved tax administration, and continued donor support.

·   Improving Social Protection and Employment Opportunities. The approach here is to reduce the
vulnerability of the poor by enhancing opportunities through access to credit, redistribution of public lands,
implementation of community-based infrastructure programs, and direct cash transfers for the most needy.

SAC2 also supported the program expressed in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRSP) that was
discussed by the World Bank and IMF Boards in December 2001. These objectives fit with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan as discussed below.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions

3.3 Original Components:

The components were driven by the IPRSP and organized around the main pillars of the GOP reform
program:

1.      Engendering Growth
1.1     Privatization and deregulation for improved business environment
1.2     Trade reform
1.3     Power sector reform

2.      Improving Governance
2.1.    Efficient and equitable mobilization of resources
2.2.    Efficient and accountable use of resources
2.3.    Civil service reform
2.4.    Devolution

3.      Improving Human Development
3.1.    Policy, fiscal, and monitoring framework
3.2.    Education
3.3.    Health

4.      Improving Income Generating Opportunities and Social Protection

These components were consistent with the main goal of the Bank Group's Assistance Strategy for
FY2003-2005 which was to support the Government reform program for a transition to a modern Islamic
state through a program of analytical services, institutional capacity building, and demand-pull lending.
The approach of SAC2 embodied the CAS' three strategic engagement principles: (i) Strong client pull to
reform and selectivity; (ii) A programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge and capacity
building first, and resources second, in a flexible pursuit of key development outcomes; and (iii)
Partnerships and outreach.

Lending. SAC2 followed a programmatic approach, as part of a sequence of similar credits (three are
anticipated) and was consistent with the process of long-term reform laid out in the IPRSP.               The
programmatic approach offered the flexibility to adapt the program to changing circumstances as well as



                                                    - 3 -

the multi-year commitment of a reasonable level of budgetary support in order for fiscal and governance
reforms to yield results. The triggers for the Bank's assistance strategy are based on measurable outcomes
derived from the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs).

Non-lending. A comprehensive program of analytical work and other non-lending services supported the
Government's key policy reforms. This program included the Pakistan Country Procurement Assessment
(June 2000), Pakistan Reforming Provincial Finances in the Context of Devolution (November 2000),
Pakistan Reforming Punjab's Public Finance and Institutions (August 2001), Pakistan Country Financial
Accountability Assessment Part One (September 2001), a joint Bank/IMF technical report on Tax
Administration Reforms (August 2001), a Development Policy Review (March 2002), and a Poverty
Assessment (June 2002). Ongoing work includes a Public Expenditure Review, Phase 2 of the Financial
Accountability Assessment, a Financial Sector Policy Assessment and a survey-based Review of the
Investment Climate.

Engendering Growth. The approach of privatizing large companies, eliminating special tax preferences,
financial and energy sector restructuring, and promoting competition policies was consistent with the CAS.
By targeting these important enterprises and sectors, the SAC2 supported the foundation of long-term
growth. Engendering growth was essential to generating resources for improved social services and
achieving credibility for the educational program by showing that jobs could be generated for those who
stayed in school.

Improving Governance. The reorganization of the Central Board of Revenue (CBR), the right-sizing of
the civil service, and increasing the transparency of accounting, auditing and procurement functions are
consistent with the CAS goals of improving the efficiency of resource mobilization and expenditures.

Improving Human Development. Increased budget resources for human development and anti-poverty
programs, school rehabilitation, teacher training, immunization and lady health care worker programs, and
other initiatives conform to the priorities established by the Government in the IPRSP.

Improving Income Generating Opportunities and Social Protection. As part of the program a number
of social protection efforts have been strengthened including Zakat, micro-credit, the food support and
Kushal programs, which are called for in the IPRSP.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR ­ Satisfactory. The SAC2 objectives were fully consistent with the CAS and the IPRSP. The
substantial analytic services helped the reform program respond to priority needs. An important aspect of
the quality at entry was the risk assessment. The Program Document cited four main risks: political
opposition to reform, lack of continuity, insufficient institutional capacity, and exogenous shocks. Political
opposition was viewed as the most immediate risk and was countered by sequencing reforms and a public
information campaign that communicated the rationale for unpopular reforms.              Continuity risk was
countered by the nature of reforms that are difficult to reverse, such as devolution with democratically
elected local governments. Consensus was built around the remainder of the reform program. The
population had also begun to experience benefits of the program, thus strengthening support.




                                                      - 4 -

Risks of weak implementation capacity were countered by technical assistance support in all components.
Exogenous shocks such as a global slowdown, continued military operations in the region, or adverse
weather's impact on agriculture would be dealt with through additional adjustment measures and external
financing. In retrospect, the continuity risk may have been underestimated given the changes in government
and the lull in reform progress that followed in some areas. It is not clear that much more could have been
done to mitigate this risk, other than to postpone the operation until after the election dust had settled.
However, there was an even greater risk that such a postponement would have been even more disruptive to
the reform process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. The SAC2 effectively supported the government
reform program and made significant progress with respect to its four pillars/objectives: (i) Engendering
Growth; (ii) Improving Governance; (iii) Improving Human Development; and (iv) Improving Income
Generating Opportunities and Social Protection. The focus of the SAC2 was on the first two pillars which
are each rated satisfactory. Pillars (iii) and (iv) were not as central to SAC2 and there are insufficient data
to measure outcomes (see below). However, the completion of core and non-core conditions under pillars
(iii) and (iv) may imply a satisfactory rating for (iii) and (iv) with no evidence to the contrary. Annex
Table 1A summarizes the outcomes from SAC2 from each of the four pillars of the program. The table
distinguishes between Pre-Board core conditions and other measures (up to tranche release, approximately
July 2001 to June 2002), and the Post Board, or Pre-SAC3 measures, which were the continuation of the
reform program (July 2002 until the date of this ICR).

General indicators for the overall program are provided in Table 1. The macroeconomic response to the
SAC2 is reflected in more detail in Table 2. Economic growth rebounded from 2.7 percent in 2000/01 to
an estimated 5.1 percent in 2002/03, while inflation remained low. The real bright spots in the macro
picture are the fiscal and current account improvements. Net public debt fell by almost 10 percentage
points of GDP, current accounts improved by $2.4 billion and international reserves more than doubled,
now exceeding US$9 billion, equivalent to 6.7 months of imports. Foreign Direct Investment is expected to
nearly double in 2003. Net public debt is projected to fall by another 17 percentage points to 68.0 percent
of GDP by FY2007.

The SAC2 program's main development impacts were in four areas: privatization of Pakistan's largest
enterprises, the continuation of financial sector reforms, and the reforms in the oil and gas sectors, all of
which fell under the pillar of Engendering Growth (satisfactory performance), and the reorganization of
the CBR, which was under the Improving Governance pillar (satisfactory). See details of specific
outputs in the following section. If sustained, these measures will substantially improve the ability of the
economy to support social development.

While SAC2 supported important measures in Improving Human Development (health and education),
there is concern about future progress because the same system that has performed poorly in the past is
essentially still in place. There are also no new, comprehensive data since the 2001/02 household survey to
measure social impacts (Table 1). Social indicators between the previous household survey 1998/99 and
the most recent survey 2001/02 have either worsened slightly (poverty as measured by caloric intake from
30.6 percent to 32.1 percent), improved slightly (infant mortality 85 to 81, gross primary enrollment 71 to
72 percent, pro-poor expenditures 3.4 to 4 percent of GDP), or stayed the same (gross primary female
enrollment of 61 percent). Continued Bank dialog will require updated data to support the delivery of



                                                     - 5 -

   acceptable quality, social services under the newly devolved government. A Core Welfare Indicators
   Questionnaire will be launched in September 2003 to update social impact indicators. Provincial SACs
   have been the main vehicle to pursue improved social service delivery, but federal measures can be
   improved as well. For example, allocating a greater share of the fiscal space, that has been generated from
   the reforms, to the social sectors is one important way to pursue poverty reduction at the federal level.
   Another would be to create additional fiscal space by reducing the budget drain of some of the
   Government's top loss-makers, such as the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) and
   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC).

                                     Table 1: Expected Outcomes Under the I-PRSP

                                                                          Provisional/      End-Period-Outcomes

             Areas and Indicators                  Original (IPRSP)         Latest-a              (2004)

   1. Overall
   a)          GDP growth rate                          2.7%               5.1% (02/03)            5.2%
   b)          Poverty (caloric)                    30.6% (98/99)         32.1%(HIES-01)       25.3% (2007)
   2. Private Sector
   a)          Total private investment (%               12.0                  12.5                13.6%
   GDP)                                              330 million            576 million          800 million
   b)          FDI and privatization (US$)             9 billion           10.25 billion         10.5 billion
   c)          Exports (US$)
   3. Public Finance
   a)          Pro-poor I-PRSP expenditures (%          3.4%                    4.0                 4.2%
   GDP)                                                11.3%                  12.0%                12.2%
   b)          CBR Revenues (% GDP)                    104.4%                 85.0%                  84%
   c)          Net public debt (% GDP)             Old paper based        New accounting       Efficient use of
   d)          Public Financial Management         system with low       model, near 100%    modern chart of public
                                                  reconciliation rate.     reconciliation         accounts
   4. Social Sectors
   a)         Gross primary enrollment rate       71% (PIHS 98/99)       72% (PIHS01/02)             80%
   b)         Gross primary enrollment rate       61% (PIHS 98/99)       61% (PIHS01/02)             75%
   female                                          85 (PIHS 98/99)        81 (PIHS01/02)      65 per 1,000 births
   c)         Infant mortality rate (per 1,000)          49%             53% (PIHS01/02)             62%
   d)         Immunization coverage                     2.2%                  2.1%                  1.8%
   e)         Population growth rate
      a-2002/03 unless otherwise stated.

                                  Table 2: Macroeconomic Indicators 2000/01-2003/04

                                                   2000/01          2001/02          2002/03       2003/04
               Indicator                            Actual            Actual        Rev. Proj.    Projection
Real GDP Growth-percent                               2.7              4.4              5.1           5.3
CPI-percent (July-June over previous year)            4.4              2.7              3.7            4.0
   Federal Revenues (% of GDP)                       17.4              19.0            20.2          17.6
   Federal Expenditures (% of GDP)                   21.4              23.3            21.9          21.1
   Federal Surplus (Deficit) (% of GDP)              -4.1              -4.3             -1.8          -3.5
   Primary Balance (% of GDP)                         2.8              3.7              3.5            1.2
   Net Public Debt                                  104.4              95.9            85.0          79.7
   Current Acct. Balance (% of GDP)                  -1.9              2.6              5.3            1.5
Gross Int'l Reserves (millions of US$)              1,679             4,330            9,073        10,605
Reserve Cover of Imports (Months)                     1.7              3.8              6.7           7.3
      Source: IMF May 2003.




                                                             - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

This section discusses the main outputs of SAC2 including progress in the follow-on program. Annex
Table 1B provides a comprehensive summary of actions categorized as outputs and are divided between the
actions taken prior to Board presentation and subsequent actions up to the date of this ICR.

Engendering Growth (Satisfactory Overall)

Privatization, Trade and Banking (Satisfactory). The privatization of Pakistan's largest enterprises,
including KESC, Pakistan Telecommunications Limited (PTCL), Oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC), and Habib Bank Limited (HBL) moved forward to the point of expressions of interest and
prequalification. HBL, PTCL and KESC bidders, however, did not complete due diligence. In the case of
OGDC, expressions of interests were invited last year and only one firm responded. Pakistan State Oil
Corporation (PSO) has completed due diligence and has attracted three bidders. The GOP Working
Interests transaction was completed and the United Bank Limited (UBL) was privatized.

In trade, the maximum tariff rate was reduced from 35 to 30 percent prior to Board, and from 30 to 25
percent after Board. Strengthening of banking supervision and restructuring for sale were the main
financial reforms which the Banking Sector Restructuring Credit (BSRC) also supported. The BSRC also
supported further liberalization and competition of financial markets. The SAC2 policy matrix echoed
these reforms, but did not make them core conditions as they were already agreed under the BSRC.

As part of the follow-on program, the Committee on Deregulation has carried out a number of additional
reforms. It has moved towards rationalization of redundant and out-dated labor laws that hinder business
growth and employment by proposing legislation to consolidate labor laws into 6 broad areas (from 101
labor laws covering 10 areas). The Committee has also drafted legislation in three areas, which is in the
final stage of vetting by the Ministry for Law, while the remaining three are still awaiting comments from
various stakeholders. The outmoded Factories Act 1934 has been reviewed with the aim of removing
irritants to businesses. The draft amendments have been circulated to the Ministry of Labor (MOL) and
other concerned stakeholders. Comments are pending. The Drug Act 1976, considered to be a deterrent to
the healthy development of pharmaceutical industry, has been amended. Based on the recommendations of
the Economic Coordination Committee of the Cabinet (ECC), the President approved an Ordinance on
Drug Act 2002 (November). Overall the progress in the deregulation agenda has been slower than
anticipated. This is largely attributed to the continuous change in project coordinators and weak ownership
by the government.

Petroleum and Gas Sector Reform (Highly Satisfactory). Though the achievement record in this
component was not perfect, it is arguable that there were more meaningful reforms in the oil and gas sector
in the past two years than there were in the previous 50 years. An important accomplishment was the
institution of a new Gas Pricing Framework for PPL gas. The PPL well-head price will increase to 50
percent of the Petroleum Policy (Zone-III) well-head price through successive semi-annual adjustments
over a period of five years. The PPL well-head price was only 17 percent of the international price before
the new price regime was put in place. The more market-based price establishes a link between the cost of
exploration and the consumer price. It is encouraging greater investment and exploration in the sector and
may help reduce subsidies to certain industries and relatively wealthy consumers, if cost of service becomes
the basis for determining sectoral gas tariffs.




                                                      - 7 -

To improve efficiency in the petroleum sector, the Borrower adopted a formula under which retail and
ex-refinery prices of all petroleum products were based on international prices and adjusted automatically
on a fortnightly basis. This measure was important to generating competition between domestic refineries
and imports.

Other non-core actions in the program policy matrix were carried out including the replacement of leaded
gas with unleaded gas nationwide. Follow-up actions are proceeding with good progress in bringing the Oil
and Gas Development Company Ltd. and Pakistan State Oil to the point of sale.

A serious concern over the gas pricing framework has, however, arisen in the follow-on program. Gas
price adjustments have been delayed or skipped during the past year, thus reducing the impact of the
continued reform. The Government needs to strengthen this framework by: (a) improving the predictability
and credibility of the gas price revision process; (b) rationalizing access to the lifeline rate for domestic
consumers to improve its targeting to the poor; and (c) approving a mechanism to include all feedstock gas
subsidies to the fertilizer industry in the budget to promote transparency. The lifeline rate which applies to
households consuming less than 100 cubic meters of gas per month currently applies to too large a segment
of population, accounting for 66 percent of the domestic consumption. The lifeline threshold needs to be
reduced (perhaps to 30 cubic meters consumption per month) in order to more efficiently target the poor.
There is also progress at OGRA as tariff and licensing rules have been drafted, and OGRA has become
operational .


Power Sector Reform (Unsatisfactory). The program achieved a number of positive steps, but the core
problem was not remedied. With a view to completing the corporatization of WAPDA's power wing: (a)
the transfer of staff in Basic Pay Scales (BPS) 1-16 from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC, and the
DISCOs, has been completed; (b) valid operating licenses were issued by NEPRA to the DISCOs by
end-April 2002, to the GENCOs by end-June 2002, and to NTDC by end-December 2002; and (c) the
principles of Supplementary Business Transfer Agreements, providing for the transfer of assets and
liabilities, other rights and obligations from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC the DISCOs and to the
residual WAPDA (which is responsible for developing and operating the country's hydropower resources),
respectively, were approved by the Borrower.

A financial improvement plan was agreed that set out the measures needed for WAPDA to become
financially viable, including a tariff increase of Rs 0.58 per kilowatt hour, and non-tariff adjustments,
which would enable WAPDA to achieve, under a reasonable forecast of revenues and expenditures, an
overall debt/service coverage ratio of 1.2 by the end of FY 2002/03; and (b) pursuant to such plan, a tariff
increase of Rs.0.045 per kilowatt hour on account of the fuel adjustment cost was determined by NEPRA
as at end of March 2002, an interim structural tariff increase of Rs. 0.08 per kilowatt hour was notified on
May 15, 2002, and a determination on the structural tariff increase of Rs 0.40 per kilowatt hour was issued
by NEPRA in July 2002. Following a request by the Government, NEPRA reviewed its determination on
the structural tariff increase, and a tariff increase of Rs.0.33 per kilowatt hour was notified on August 13,
2002. In December 2002, NEPRA approved a reduction in electricity tariffs of about Rs.0.13 per kilowatt
hour (under the Automatic Fuel Cost Adjustment Formula), to reflect the decline in fuel costs during the
first half of FY03. The overall increase in electricity tariffs during FY03 was therefore substantially less
than the level agreed under the FIP.

This financial plan has not been successful. The major issues of dealing with WAPDA's existing debt and
the poor collections rates (particularly from public sector consumers) are unremedied.           The planned
debt-service coverage ratios (e.g., of 1.2 by 2002/03 and 1.5 by 2003/04) will not be achieved in the



                                                       - 8 -

foreseeable future. Despite the progress toward corporatization, the fundamental problem of WAPDA's
financial unviability remains as serious as it was prior to SAC2. WAPDA's operating losses continue at
25 percent of total costs. The annual cost to the Treasury is Rs.25-30 billion which is equal to WAPDA's
debt service costs, or about 0.6 percent of GDP.            The corporatized entities are not functioning
autonomously as planned by December 2002 and are unlikely to do so until the end of calendar year 2003.
The electricity price increase issued by NEPRA (Fuel Adjustment Surcharge) was scaled back by about 20
percent (49 to 38 paisas/kwh) by the Government which has undermined NEPRA's role as a regulator of
electricity prices.

Improving Governance (Satisfactory Overall)

Resource Mobilization (Satisfactory). The component has had some important impacts, despite some
slowdown of progress after the elections. Major reorganization and reform of the CBR was essential to
reliable, increased resource mobilization.      One of the bright spots of this subcomponent was the
medium-term reform strategy and action plan for CBR, aimed at providing for a modern, progressive,
effective and credible organization for optimizing revenue by providing quality service and promoting
compliance with tax laws. CBR has also increased the transparency and speed of refunds of the General
Sales Tax (GST) and duty drawbacks to exporters and such refunds in the first 9 months of FY 2001/02
registered an increase of about 45 percent over such refunds in the corresponding period of fiscal year
2000/01. (Though that was somewhat a case of overshooting because of past errors--now the authorities
are scrutinizing refund applications more closely, while still improving the processing time for refunds).
The follow on program has slowed in the area of revamping recruitment and training procedures,
right-sizing personnel, or establishing monitoring indicators targets to be made public. On the positive
side, CBR has established a respectable Large Taxpayer Unit in Karachi (serving 300 large taxpayers and
accounting for 12 percent of total revenue) and a Medium Taxpayer Unit (MTU) in Lahore that serves
10,000 taxpayers. The longer term intent to replicate the LTUs and MTUs in other cities as per the
follow-on program.

Efficient and Accountable Use of Resources (Satisfactory). SAC2 continued the work of SAC1 in
financial management. SAC1 initiated the separation of the accounting and auditing functions and SAC2,
with the help of the Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA), is helping establish
accounting and auditing capacity at 52 sites through training and computerization for a new accounting
system. The reliability and timeliness of fiscal accounts has improved substantially. Reconciliations have
improved from almost nil a few years ago to between 50 and 100 percent, with Balochistan reconciliations
the lowest and Federal reconcilations the highest. Data over the past year show a small decline in
reconciliations, but this drop is a side effect of devolution and the capacity of the Districts to produce
accurate accounts. The amount of unidentified expenditures has also fallen from 11 billion to 7 billion
rupees or less than 0.2 percent of GDP. SAC2 also supported the strengthening of internal controls
through appointment of Chief Financial Officers at the line ministries. Public Accounts Committees were
constituted and are expected to review all outstanding audit reports in the near future. FY2003 is the
transition year for the new chart of accounts that will move Pakistan into compliance with GFS of the IMF.

The first phase of the Borrower's pay and pension reform scheme for civilian and military personnel was
implemented through: (a) the revision of pay scales; and (b) the rationalization of pension benefits. The
Borrower's Procurement Regulatory Authority Ordinance, 2002 (Ordinance No XXII of 2002) was issued,
with a view to regulating the procurement of goods, services and works by the public sector (see
Procurement Reforms below).        The provincial ad hoc Public Accounts Committees opened up their
proceedings to the press on the lines of the federal ad hoc Public Accounts Committee.




                                                      - 9 -

Procurement Reforms (Unsatisfactory). The PPRA was established through an Ordinance in May 2002,
but is not yet fully operational due to delays in the recruitment of key staff and lack of a permanent
premises.    PPRA is engaging individual consultants to review and revise the procurement rules and
regulations of only four large federal agencies (out of 60 planned) in the first phase. PPRA's staff consists
of a Managing Director (MD) and one Director (Finance & Administration). The MD of PPRA expects
that the consultants will submit for approval of PPRA's Board the revised rules and regulations of these
four agencies by early July, 2003. The Bank has conveyed its concerns over the need to develop one
general set of new rules applicable to all federal agencies, and add-on/supplementary rules for certain
agencies based on the unique nature of their procurement.           Work on the preparation of the new
Procurement Law at the federal level has recently been initiated after a long delay. The Secretary Finance
(who chairs the PPRA Board) has submitted for the PPRA's Board for consideration, a first draft of the
procurement law which is a modified version of the NWFP Procurement Ordinance that was promulgated
last year. The PPRA Board members are expected to provide their comments on the initial draft, after
which it will be revised by the Ministry of Finance's lawyer. Given the history of delays, it appears
unlikely that the new draft law will be finalized and submitted to the Parliament in this fiscal year.

Civil Service Reform (Satisfactory). Much of the civil service reform in Pakistan has taken place at the
provincial level and has been addressed by provincial reform programs (such as those supported by the
Sindh SAC and the NWFP SAC). However, a number of important measures were carried out at the
Federal level with the help of SAC2. The first phase of the pay and pension reform scheme for the federal
government's civilian and military personnel has been implemented through (a) the revision of pay scales
and (b) the rationalization of pension benefits. As part of this program, the Cabinet approved the
establishment of a contributory pension fund for new entrants; and the monetization of a number of
allowances into salaries. The first phase of pay and pension reforms was implemented in January 2002.
All federal civil servants including military were given new pay scales which restored 75 percent of the lost
value after 1994 and also revised pension benefits (lower commutation rates and more actuarially fair
commutation factors). The pay reform also reduced the share of monetary allowances from 40 to 27
percent and de-compressed the pay scales. The ratio of the highest to the lowest increased from 1:9.2 to
1:9.9 including all monetary allowances. Though this sub-component earns a satisfactory rating, reversals
in recruitment procedures for middle grades have created concerns. The February 2002 decision by the
Federal Cabinet to recruit grades 11-16 without involving the Federal Public Service Commission
effectively overturned the FPSC Amendment Ordinance (November 17, 2000).                   This is a setback.
However, the decision has not yet been implemented - and there is still an opportunity to shape the details.


In the interest of merit based recruitment, a more autonomous Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC)
was given responsibility for recruitment for all middle level and high level professionals. Promotion panels
for higher grades are now chaired by the Chairman FPSC and to ensure quality of high grade staff,
acceptance to advanced training programs are now subject to entry examinations.

The government continued its program of civil service reforms by right-sizing and improvements in the
skill-mix of the federal civil service. These actions were supported by other measures aimed at improving
the performance of public servants and reducing corruption. The right-sizing initiative led to some useful
reallocation of staff between departments, but no overall change in the skill mix within government. The
government has recently launched a comprehensive civil service capacity building program which includes
(i) broad-based professional development of middle and high level federal and provincial civil servants,
and (ii) capacity building of key economic ministries, departments, and agencies in the forefront of design
and implementation of the reform program.




                                                     - 10 -

Improving Human Development (Satisfactory)

Satisfactory. The FY 2001/2002 budget allocations of the Borrower's federal, provincial, and local
governments for human development and pro-poor expenditures under the I-PRSP have been increased, in
the aggregate, to Rs.161 billion, or 4 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The federal and
provincial governments established a clear fiscal framework to finance the district governments and ensure
the regular flow of funds.

A National PRSP Implementation Committee was established in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to oversee
the implementation of the anti-poverty strategy as reflected in the I-PRSP, which helped build consensus in
support of the full PRSP under preparation, together with a PRSP Secretariat that coordinated the actions
directed by the National PRSP Implementation Committee. As part of this process: (a) a national poverty
line and methodology have been established; and (b) intermediate health and education outcome indicators
have been formulated and evaluated, and an action plan to improve the monitoring tools was developed.

In the area of monitoring and evaluation of the PRSP the government has: (a) completed the action plan and
initiated implementation of the program to improve the monitoring of its health and education intermediate
outcome indicators; and (b) improved the quarterly analyses of performance in I-PRSP expenditures in
conjunction with the provincial governments.

As part of the Education Sector Reform Program: (a) additional budgetary resources for education have
been directed at the federal, provincial, and local government levels; (b) a National Education Assessment
Initiative (NEAS) has been prepared and launching is imminent; and (c) school rehabilitation, teacher
training and girls schooling and feeding programs at the federal, provincial, and local government level
have been expanded.

As part of the National Health Policy: (a) an Expanded Immunization Program for children has been
launched by the Borrower; (b) the Borrower's Lady Health Workers Program has been strengthened
through the appointment of an additional 10,000 Lady Health Workers; (c) the Borrower's Tuberculosis
Control Program has been expanded; and (d) a national strategic HIV/AIDS prevention program has been
formulated by the Borrower for imminent launching.

Improving Income Generating Opportunities and Social Protection (Satisfactory)

"Marginally satisfactory" would be a more accurate rating were it available to the ICR. Though this
component is one of the four pillars of the reform program, there were no core conditions for SAC2 or core
follow-on conditions for a possible SAC3. This pillar consisted mainly of fortifying existing traditional
programs such as Zakat and Kushal with additional financing and then monitoring and evaluating the
programs. The Bank is not closely following this component and no credible monitoring framework is in
place. The other element of this pillar, microcredit, was expanded to 30 districts and the government has
moved to strengthen the legal and regulatory environment for micro-finance institutions and expand
coverage of existing programs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.



                                                    - 11 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, the institutional development impact of SAC2 to date is modest, but potentially substantial. The
privatization and oil and gas sector reforms certainly have had a substantial impact. Through preparations
for privatization, the largest economic entities in Pakistan are undergoing a fundamental change in the way
business is done. In revenue mobilization and use, major changes are also underway, but not yet fully in
place so the impact is modest for now, but, again, potentially substantial. In public service delivery, the
impact so far is modest. There is still uncertainty regarding the success of devolution with implementation
capacity at the District level still inadequate. The effectiveness of data collection and M&E is still not
proven. There is some data showing that enrollment rates are increasing, particularly for girls, but the
impact is not yet conclusive. The reorganization of CBR was a substantial change. If the delays in the
follow-on actions for CBR can be remedied, major progress in establishing a predictable and reliable
mechanism for revenue mobilization will be achieved, which is vital to Pakistan's business environment.
Irregular behavior of the tax authorities, which was one of the top two complaints in a survey of Pakistani
businesses, will need to be part of that transformation.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main factor outside the control of the Government/Implementing agencies were the political forces at
play leading up to the elections in October 2002. The uncertainties with respect to the continuity of the
reform program have been mostly, but not fully resolved pending the "settling in" of the new government.
The campaign atmosphere complicated the reform program. For example, election promises of low fuel
prices make the agreed price adjustment in March higher and more difficult for consumers to bear. The
time to constitute a new government and to get new people in place also led to delays in completing some of
the key follow-on actions. The strong impact of the October 2002 elections on the reform program has led
some to question whether it might have been better to continue the dialog, but postpone SAC2 until after
the election when political uncertainty was largely resolved. This issue is addressed as a lesson learned
below.

Another external factor was the regional/domestic security situation, which has increased uncertainty and
hampered growth. In at least one specific instance, the security situation had a material affect on program
implementation. The human resource audit that was to take place in CBR was not carried out formally in
part because it was not possible to deploy IT consultants to Pakistan out of security concerns. This
delayed implementation of follow-on actions that would be based on the human resource audit.

A third factor was that the international and, to some extent, domestic environment was/is not conducive to
the sale of large utilities. The company that was closest to privatization, the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation, attracted only one bidder. In the current environment, other large companies such as KESC
and Pakistan Telecommunications Company Limited may be difficult to sell. However, there are still
worthwhile benefits to corporatization and improvement of the business environment (through tariff and tax
reforms, etc.). When the selling environment improves, the corporatization measures are expected to pay
off in higher sales prices. A fourth factor was the prolonged drought which led to lower agricultural output
and lower growth. The result has been a slower economic recovery and fiscal rebound.




                                                     - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The most important positive factor in the success of SAC2 were the champion roles played by the President
and the Minister of Finance. Although there were uncertainties following the elections, and the reform
momentum slowed, early indications are that the Government's intentions are to keep on track with the
agreed program. The one qualification appears to be the commitment to the financial improvement of
WAPDA, which is discussed under the section on Sustainability below.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

One area at least partially under the control of implementing agencies was the lack of progress in
improving collections for electric power. WAPDA has not been able to reduce losses and collections have
not improved, remaining at 25 percent. The Government will need to redouble its efforts to institute
incentives to increase collections and reduce operational losses.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total credit amount was SDR 395.2 million (US$500 million equivalent). The entire credit amount
was disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness (June 12, 2002). The credit was made on standard
IDA terms with a term of 35 years, a 10-year grace period, and an IDA service charge of 75 basis points.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the SAC2 is rated likely. The GOP has satisfactorily continued its reform program in
most areas of fiscal and financial management, civil service, education, health sector, energy pricing, and
regulatory reforms and privatization. The Government has continued support of the reform program,
despite a number of negative external factors, including the slowed momentum surrounding the elections.
Thus, the reform program has proven resistant to political changes, which supports a likely rating for
sustainability. The Pakistan Development Forum (PDF), a gathering of senior government officials and
donors, took place in May 2003. At the PDF, the Government reiterated its commitment to continued
reform and pledged not to backtrack.         The Bank, who was represented by the Vice President, was
impressed by the expressed commitment to continuity of reforms. Donors also pledged continued support
for the program laid out in the draft PRSP. There are other indications that the reform program is likely to
remain on track. In June 2003 the federal budget for 2003/04 was approved. The budget aims at
accelerating growth, increasing the share of expenditures going to priority I-PRSP programs, and reducing
that of defense. The IMF Board approved the Fifth Review under the PRGF in mid June.

The corporatization of Pakistan's largest entities has improved their ways of doing business, which in itself
is a large impact that will be difficult to reverse. It would be much more difficult to reverse if the entities
could be fully privatized, however.        Oil and gas sector reforms are considered sustainable because
consumer prices now more accurately reflect international costs, which is improving Pakistan's fiscal
stance because of savings on subsidies. However, one big test was the scheduled March 2003 fuel price
adjustment. This adjustment was delayed and the increase determined by NEPRA was reduced by the
Government. This delay raises some concern about sustainability and it will be important to the future of
the program that all future fuel prices are fully adjusted and on time. Revenue mobilization measures such
as reorganization of CBR are sustainable and will be on track if the delayed human resource audit is
completed and leads to performance based pay and right sizing.


                                                     - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

For oil and gas, a further demonstration of sustainability would be the continued liberalization of
downstream activities including free competition between refineries and imports, abolishing the freight
pool, a predictable and transparent tariff framework at the retail level, and continuing the move to the
international well-head price for gas.

Progress on improving WAPDA's bottom line through improved collections would be very important to
sustainability. WAPDA's current losses are a large budget drain (nearly 5 percent of the overall budget
and 1 percent of GDP). The incentive structure to eliminate losses will need to be put in place. A possible
SAC3 must address this issue. A new FIP has been submitted which is a step forward in improving
WAPDA's performance.

In the social sectors, the types of reforms supported by the SAC2, such as those promoting sub-national
governance require years to achieve, but are also expected to be sustained as a new way of doing business.
New systems of accounting and auditing have been operationalized and will promote greater accuracy and
compliance. These changes will be deepened and broadened by a planned PIFRA2 which will build
accounting and auditing capacity in the remaining 75 District sites. Transparency, and accountability will
be ingrained in processes of social service delivery, but these processes will require continued support for
at least the two-year remainder of the plan period.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank conducted a sustained policy dialog with the GOP, which resulted in a meaningful
reform program beginning with the first SAC and deepened under SAC2. The program was consistent with
the national priorities expressed in the IPRSP.      The Bank also developed a close and harmonious
partnership with the IMF.      The IMF PRGF program and the SAC2 Policy Matrix overlapped and
complemented each other. The IMF's fiscal targets, for example, indirectly supported the Bank's efforts to
reduce WAPDA's losses.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The supervision process went smoothly with support from the country office in Islamabad.
However,      despite  the   substantial  progress   made    in   the   follow-on    program,    the   single
tranche-quick-disbursing nature of SAC2 did leave the Bank with limited leverage after disbursement.
Here again, the IMF played an important role. Through its quarterly review process, it has been able to
support the Bank's program particularly in the banking and power sectors and in tax administration (CBR).
The Bank's reliance on tariff reform was an important element in electricity reform, but needs to further
into the institutional measures that will improve WAPDA's performance, in particular, improving
collection rates.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

As both lending and supervision are satisfactory, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. All
Board conditions were fulfilled, despite some negative external factors and uncertainties about the future of



                                                   - 14 -

the program, the reform program is generally on track.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory.    The program developed with the borrower was comprehensive, but realistic.              The
Government stretched itself in a number of areas including privatization and oil and gas pricing
frameworks, but generally did not over extend itself. The one exception is that the GOP might have gone a
bit farther in adjusting the power tariff upward, closer to long-run cost, which would have improved
WAPDA's bottom line. The "champion effect' was evident in the strong move toward privatization and
improved governance and accountability. In financial management, there were champions in the Controller
General of Accounts and, later, in the Auditor General (formerly the Financial Secretary). The GOP
worked intensively in developing the final financial matrix and negotiated a final policy matrix whose scope
and timing were in line with reality. Although there had been much analytical work at the national level
over many months, once the decision to provide financial resources was made, preparation moved quickly,
taking only about six months to reach the Board.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The GOP carried out the Board Conditions for a timely tranche release. Though some areas
proved difficult in current circumstances, the GOP demonstrated a commitment to reform as exhibited in
implementation of most of the follow-on program as well. The GOP often went beyond core conditions to
implement a broader reform program and in a number of cases exceeded expectations. The macroeconomic
turnaround, evidenced by the reduction in the debt to GDP ratio and the accumulation of reserves was
particularly encouraging.

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were set up as part of the Federal Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy to track public expenditures, outputs and outcomes. Data reporting, however, must be
more systematic and frequent.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. Though generally satisfactory there was a wide range of performance of IAs. WAPDA did
not make the desired efforts to become sustainable and PPRA's progress in procurement reform was slow
and employed a questionable strategy. For example, it might have been better for the review of existing
federal procurement rules and the development of new rules to be carried out as a single consolidated
assignment through engagement of a single consulting. Instead, PPRA chose to implement the task in
phases through hiring of large numbers of individual consultants concurrently, which will strain PPRA's
limited existing capacity and may not result in a uniform product. Another area of improvement, would be
in revamping the training of CBR elite staff more closely in line with the CBR's goals of fair and reliable
revenue mobilization.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower performance was satisfactory, exceeding expectations in some areas while requiring
improvement in other areas as identified.




                                                    - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

It is better to proceed with a credit to support an ongoing reform program, rather than wait for
elections to be held and the aftermath to be resolved. As in the case of the provincial SACs, the Bank
faced the choice of proceeding with SAC2 or delaying the credit until after the elections. The Bank made
the right choice to follow through with the scheduled credit in order to maintain reform momentum and to
deepen the reforms begun under SAC1. Had the credit been delayed the program might have stalled and
inertia might have made it difficult to get the reforms moving again.

The broader programs that include a wide range of specific actions are important to empowering
reformers against reform resistance. If a program design is less comprehensive with a view to focusing
reform efforts on a restricted, priority agenda, then many important changes may be left out and, later, fall
through the cracks. Broadening the program with wide ranging commitments spelled out gives leverage to
reformers and other donors' programs.

The Bank may support a very broad program and represent that program in the policy matrix, but
may concentrate its energies on a smaller core program. The core of SAC2 was the privatization, oil
and gas, power and financial sector reforms, and overhaul of the CBR. Other components, such as
agriculture reform and social protection were important, but not the prime focus of SAC2. Agriculture was
part of the program, but really the domain of another donor. Health and Education components, while part
of the core conditionality, were dealt with more fundamentally in the provincial (Sindh and NWFP) SACs.
Realistically, the Bank cannot and should not be expected to monitor all components with the same
intensity as the core of the program.

A multi-tranche operation would probably not have been advisable, nor effective against backsliding,
in the context of a country with a weak implementation track record such as that of Pakistan. With
the upcoming elections, a multi-tranche operation might have made more sense as an incentive to keep up
reform momentum. However, with Pakistan's checkered implementation record, it was the smarter move
for the Bank to lend on the basis of "track record" (i.e., already completed conditions), as opposed to
commitments to carry out reforms in the future. In addition, the IMF was able to play a complementary
role in the Bank program by applying pressure through their quarterly review to support key parts of the
Bank-supported program that affected Pakistan's fiscal stance. The Development Credit agreement also
contained protections through the bullet repayment clause that the Bank could invoke if the reform program
were to go off track.

A "homegrown" program is desirable, but places a greater burden on the donor (the Bank) to verify
assumptions on which the program is based. For example, the first FIP for WAPDA was homegrown,
but was based on unrealistic assumptions, such as full cost recovery from electric supply to the public
sector.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 16 -

- 17 -

- 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

NA




                                             - 19 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                    TABLE A: Key Outcome Performance/Indicators

Outcome Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Engendering Growth
                                             Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)           Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

TRADE REFORM                                                                            To reduce the anti-export bias and encourage
                                             Actions have been taken by CBR to
To improve export performance by reducing increase the transparency and speed of        exports, the maximum tariff rate will have

anti-export bias of trade policy and through refunds of GST and duty drawbacks to       been reduced from 30 percent to 25 percent

institutional reforms.                                                                  and the tariff slabs reduced from four to three.
                                             exporters; and (b) such refunds in the     (Done)
                                             first 9 months of FY02 have registered
                                             an increase of about 45% over such         The Central Board of Revenue would have
                                             refunds in the corresponding period of     continued the implementation of its action
                                             fiscal year 2000/01.                       plan to increase transparency and expediency
                                                                                        in the refund of the General Sales Tax and
                                                                                        duty drawback to exporters in the context of
                                                                                        the broader CBR reforms. New
                                                                                        administrative procedures replacing SRO
                                                                                        417 (I)/2000 for GST refunds would have
                                                                                        been established. (Done)

                                                                                        To reduce the anti-export bias the
                                                                                        government will have eliminated the
                                                                                        duties on polyester and other critical
                                                                                        inputs used by textile exporters. (Done)

AGRICULTURE SECTOR REFORM                                                               The federal and provincial governments
                                                                                        will have accelerated the pace of
                                                                                        institutional reforms in irrigation to
                                                                                        enhance efficiency of water use, reduce
                                                                                        subsidies to operation and maintenance,
                                                                                        and regulate ground water use. The
                                                                                        government will have given priority to
                                                                                        the construction of the national drainage
                                                                                        system. (on track)

NATURAL GAS SECTOR REFORM                    A new Gas Pricing Framework for PPL        As a part of the program to develop a
To enhance sector development through        gas has been established, which will bring sound gas pricing framework: (a) the
tariff reform, privatization, and improved   the PPL well-head price up to, and         government will have rationalized access
regulatory environment.                      maintain it at, a level equal to fifty     to the lifeline rate for domestic consumers
                                             percent (50%) of the well-head price       to improve its targeting to the poor; and
                                             fixed from time to time for the Zone III   (b) the Cabinet will have approved a
                                             gas fields as defined in the government's  mechanism to include all feedstock gas
                                             Petroleum Exploration & Production         subsidies to the fertilizer industry in the
                                             Policy dated May 1, 2001, through          budget. Implementation to start with the
                                             successive semi-annual adjustments over    budget for FY04. (Partially done)
                                             a period of five years; and (b) the first  As a part of the program to develop a sound
                                             adjustment of PPL gas prices under such    gas pricing framework, the government will
                                             Framework has taken place and is           have established transport and distribution
                                             reflected in consumer prices.              charges policy based on volumetric basis in
                                                                                        a manner that encourages efficiency and is
                                                                                        not related to guaranteed returns. (Done)

                                                                                        The Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
                                                                                        (OGRA) will have been made operational
                                                                                        through the notification of its Tariff and
                                                                                        Licensing Rules. (Almost done)



                                                               - 20 -

Outcome Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Engendering Growth cont.
                                           Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)              Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM                    A formula has been adopted by the            Continued implementation of automatic
To increase efficiency and growth through  government under which retail and
deregulation, market liberalization, and   ex-refinery prices of all petroleum products fortnightly price adjustments of
enhanced competition.                      are based upon international prices and      petroleum products in line with

                                           adjusted automatically on a fortnightly      international prices. (Done)

                                           basis; and (b) since July 1, 2001, with the
                                           exception of the period comprising March     To enhance competition and efficiency in

                                           15 to May 15, 2002, all scheduled price      the oil sector the government will have:

                                           adjustments under the formula have taken     (a) set the ex-refinery prices of all

                                           place.                                       petroleum products on the basis of import
                                                                                        (or export) parity prices as ceilings; and

                                           The import of oil products has been          (b) as part of this process the government

                                           liberalized with refineries and the oil      will have reviewed and initiated reforms

                                           marketing companies authorized to import     to phase out the current system of

                                           their requirements directly.                 guaranteed returns to the refineries.
                                                                                        (Done)


                                           The transport of petroleum products has been
                                           deregulated for secondary markets. Prices
                                           allowed to differ across some geographical
                                           areas.

                                           Subsidies to the refineries are being made
                                           transparent and are provided through the
                                           national budget.

                                           As a part of the program to improve the
                                           quality of petroleum products, unleaded
                                           gasoline has been made available throughout
                                           seventy percent of the country.

POWER SECTOR REFORM                         With a view to completing the                The government will have maintained full
                                                                                         adherence to its financial improvement
To establish a competitive electric         corporatization of WAPDA: (a) the            plan for WAPDA and its corporate
power system consisting of                  transfer of staff in Basic Pay Scales        successors. This would lead to achievement
privately-owned, financially viable, and    (BPS) 1-16 from WAPDA to the                 of the financial target of a debt service
efficiently operated companies.             GENCOs, the NTDC, and the DISCOs,
                                            has been completed; (b) valid operating      coverage ratio of 1.2 at the end of FY03,

                                            licenses have been issued by NEPRA to        and 1.5 at end FY04. The power sector

                                            the DISCOs; and (c) the principles for       financing would also be fully consistent

                                            Supplementary Business Transfer              with the agreed macroeconomic

                                            Agreements, providing for the transfer of    framework. (Not done)

                                            assets and liabilities, other rights and     The transformation of WAPDA's power
                                            obligations from WAPDA to the                wing into autonomous companies under
                                            GENCOs, the NTDC and the DISCOs,             professional management through
                                            respectively, have been approved by the      corporatization will have been completed
                                            government.                                  by end December 2002. As a part of this
                                                                                         process: (a) Supplementary Business
                                                                                         Transfer Agreements would be
                                                                                         implemented; (b) NEPRA would have
                                                                                         issued licnese to the GENCOs and the
                                                                                         NTDC; and (c) final transfer prices would
                                                                                         have been approved. (Almost Done)




                                                                - 21 -

Outcome Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
2. Improving Governance
                                        Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)             Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE                 A medium-term reform strategy and           Accelerated implementation of the medium
MOBILIZATION OF RESOURCES               action plan for CBR has been                term program of CBR reforms. As a part of

To improve tax policy and tax           approved by the government,                 that program:

administration to increase revenues and providing for a modern, progressive,        CBR will have completed its human resource
improve governance.                     effective and credible organization for
                                        optimizing revenue by providing             audit, and based on its recommendations

                                        quality service and promoting               implemented human resource reforms. It will

                                        compliance with tax laws.                   have established new recruitment,
                                                                                    performance assessment, training, and
                                        The functional reorganization of CBR has    promotion procedures, or programs. A new
                                        been completed as prescribed by the         performance-based pay scale will have been
                                        recently approved medium term strategy.     approved by government. The rightsizing of

                                        A new Income Tax Ordinance based on         personnel will have started. (IT preparation

                                        self-assessment, minimal exemptions,        has started)

                                        and simplified and more equitable rates     CBR will have established outcome indicators
                                        has been promulgated.                       and targets, as well as a program to measure

                                        To increase the efficiency of the tax systemprogress. This information will be shared

                                        the GST has been extended to agricultural   with the public on a regular basis. (Done)

                                        inputs, including fertilizer, and
                                        non-essential pharmaceuticals.

                                        To increase the efficiency of the tax
                                        system the GST compliance requirements
                                        have been extended to all traders with
                                        annual turn-over in excess of Rs. 5
                                        million.

EFFICIENT AND ACCOUNTABLE               To improve the quality of the public        To improve the quality and the transparency of
USE OF RESOURCES                        investment program: (a) the Planning        the public investment program: (a) the

To strengthen expenditure controls and  Commission's Chief Economist signs-off      Planning Commission will have prepared

improve the quality of the expenditure  on all project appraisals submitted for the summary Project Information Documents of the

program.                                approval of the Central Development         most important projects in the investment
                                        Working Party the Executive Committee       programs and made them available to the
                                        of the National Economic Council; (b)       public; and (b) make public the semi-annual
                                        progress reports of project implementation  reports of progress in project implementation.
                                        are being prepared on a semi-annual basis;  (Done)
                                        and (c) the public investment program is
                                        being prepared as a three-year- rolling     The federal budget for FY03 and years beyond

                                        plan for a medium term budget               will have been prepared under a more detailed

                                        framework.                                  medium term budget framework. (Done)

                                        The federal budget for FY02 has been
                                        prepared within a medium term budget
                                        framework.

                                        The federal and the provincial budgets of
                                        Sindh and NWFP for FY03 are being
                                        prepared within a medium term budget
                                        framework.




                                                            - 22 -

Outcome Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)           Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

 To improve public financial             The government has implemented the         The federal and provincial governments

 management through improvements in      separation of the audit and accounting     will have achieved full reconciliation of

 accounting and audits.                  functions. The accounting function is now  expenditures and revenues on a

                                         under the purview of the CGA.              quarterly basis. (Almost done, except in
                                                                                    Belochistan which as nevertheless
                                         The CGA has established a short and        improved)
                                         medium term program of reforms to
                                         improve reconciliation, reduce             The federal government will have achieved a
                                         unidentified expenditures, and strengthen  significant reduction in unidentified
                                         internal controls. Reconciliation of       expenditures at end FY02 (when compared to
                                         revenues and expenditures are close to     FY01) and reduced unidentified expenditures
                                         100% in federal government and some        to no more than 0.1% of GDP at the end
                                         provinces.                                 FY03. (Almost done, having achieved
                                                                                    unidentfied expenditures of 0.2% of GDP)
                                         The CGA has established systems to
                                         improve reliability and timeliness of      The Proportion of government transactions
                                         accounts by: (a) eliminating settlement    under new modernized and computerized
                                         accounts; and (b) requiring daily bank     accounting system will have reached 80%
                                         reconciliations.                           by end FY03 and 100% by end FY05. (In
                                                                                    progress with lag)

                                                                                    At the end of FY05, the timeliness and
                                                                                    accuracy of federal and provincial accounts will
                                                                                    allow for fully on-time reconciled reports. (On
                                                                                    track)

To promote efficiency in the use of    The provincial ad hoc Public Accounts        The federal PAC Accounts Committee will
resources through fiscal transparency  Committees have opened up their              have completed the review of all outstanding
and external oversight                 proceedings to the press.                    Audit Reports (FY98, FY 99, and FY 00).
                                                                                    (Status uncertain)

                                        The federal PAC has completed and made      Starting with the FY04 All Audit Reports for
                                        public the review of the 1996/97 Audit      PIFRA sites will have been submitted to the
                                        Reports and initiated review of the         legislature no later than eight months after the end
                                        reports for FY00, FY99, and FY98 with a     of a FY starting in FY04, and based on audit
                                        view to clear the backlog in these reviews  reports of FY03, the government will have
                                        by end-October 2002.                        initiated the tracking and monitoring of cash

                                        The FY01 Public Audit Report has been       recoveries mandated by the PAC and of the

                                        carried in a timely manner, with            percentage of Auditor's General recommendations

                                        increased attention to the audit of         approved by government. (Future program)

                                        systemic problems. It has been released
                                        and made public in March 2002.

To promote the efficiency in the use of The Procurement Regulatory                  During FY04, one third (33%) of the national
resources through more effective public Authority Ordinance [Ordinance              public procurement (all federal government
procurement.                            No.XXII of 2002] has been issued,           procurement) will have been carried out under
                                        with a view to regulating the               modern rules and regulations. In addition, defense
                                        procurement of goods, services and          procurement will also have been carried out under
                                        works by the public sector                  these rules. (Almost done)

                                                                                    During FY05, about one half (50%) of the
                                                                                    national public procurement (all federal
                                                                                    government and autonomous federal agencies)
                                                                                    will have been carried out under revised modern
                                                                                    rules and regulations a new Procurement Law.
                                                                                    In addition defense procurement will also have
                                                                                    been carried out under these rules. (On track)




                                                             - 23 -

 Outcome Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)            Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

 CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                                                                  The government will have continued

 To improve the performance of the civil                                               with the implementation of its program

 service by restoring integrity, autonomy,                                             of civil service reforms by: (a) continued

 and adoption of modern personnel and                                                  implementation of the Cabinet-approved

 management practices.                                                                 program to right-size and improve the
                                                                                       skill-mix of the federal civil service; (b)
                                                                                       carrying out the second phase of pay and
                                                                                       pension reforms. As a part of this
                                                                                       program the Cabinet will have approved
                                                                                       the establishment of a contributory
                                                                                       pension fund for new entrants; and the
                                                                                       monetization of a number of allowances
                                                                                       into salaries. (On track)

                                                                                       The government will have continued the
                                                                                       implementation of programs to strengthen
                                                                                       merit-based recruitment, and promotions
                                                                                       and revamp training programs. (On track)
 3. Improving Human Development

 POLICY, FISCAL, AND                                                                   In the area of monitoring and evaluation of

 MONITORING FRAMEWORK                                                                  the PRSP the government will have: (a)
                                                                                       completed the action plan and initiated
                                                                                       implementation of a program to improve the

 Increase the share of pro-poor                                                        monitoring of its health and education

 expenditures with monitoring and                                                      intermediate outcome indicators; and (b)

 evaluation mechanisms to track                                                        improved the quarterly analyses of

 progress                                                                              performance in I-PRSP expenditures in
                                                                                       conjunction with the provincial
                                                                                       governments. (On track)

EDUCATION

Increase enrollments, narrow gender gaps, Pursuant to the Education Sector Reform
and increase quality of education.         Program: (a) additional budgetary
                                           resources for education have been
                                           directed at the provincial, territorial and
                                           district government levels; (b) a National
                                           Education Assessment Initiative has been
                                           launched; and (c) school rehabilitation,
                                           teacher training and girls schooling and
                                           feeding programs at the federal,
                                           provincial, and local government level,
                                           have been expanded.

 HEALTH                                   Pursuant to the National Health Policy: (a) The    accelerated    implementation     of the

 Improve the health status of the         an Expanded Immunization Program for         Expanded    Program    of  Immunization    for

 population through the expansion and     children has been launched; (b) the Lady     children will have yielded an increase in the

 improved quality of preventive and       Health Workers Program has been              coverage rate of at least 5 percent per year

 public health systems.                   strengthened through the appointment of      through FY05. (On track)
                                          an additional 10,000 Lady Health Workers;
                                          (c) the Tuberculosis Control Program has
                                          been expanded; and (d) a national strategic The government will have launched the
                                          HIV/AIDS prevention program has been         implementation of the expanded HIV/AIDS
                                          formulated for imminent launching.           prevention program. (On track)




                                                             - 24 -

                                      TABLE B: Key Output Performance Indicators

Output Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Engendering Growth
                                            Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)        Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

PRIVATIZATION AND                           The President has constituted an
DEREGULATION FOR IMPROVED inter-Ministerial Deregulation Committee                     The government will have brought to the

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT                        chaired by the Minister of Finance to      point of sale PakistanTelecommunications
                                                                                       Company Limited, United Bank Limited,
To promote growth by improving the          oversee and guide regulatory reforms across
                                                                                       Karachi Electricity Supply Company,
business environment: Increasing            sectors.
                                                                                       Pakistan State Oil, Oil and Gas Development
consistency and predictability of policies, Price and profiteering and hoarding        Corporation, and Faisalabad Electricity
limiting the opportunities for              controls on all but two of the sixty-six   Supply Company. (Done, but only PSO close
rent-seeking behavior, and reducing the     essential products specified in the        to sale and only one bidder for OGDC).
role of the state in productive activities. Schedule to the government's Price
                                            Control and Prevention of Profiteering
                                            and Hoarding Act, 1977 [Act No.            The Ministerial Committee on Deregulation

                                            XXIX of 1977] have been removed.           will have accelerated the implementation of
                                                                                       its program by: (a) amending labor laws to
                                            Continued implementation of program to     encourage employment while protecting
                                            grant no new exemptions or special         worker's rights; (b) implementing a program
                                            privileges regarding income tax, custom    to eliminate administrative barriers; and (c)
                                            duties, GST, or to impose new regulatory   working in conjunction with CBR carried out
                                            duties. Phasing out of time-bound          a comprehensive review of SRO system and
                                            regulatory import duties and no adoption   implemented an action plan to eliminate
                                            of new ones except for existing contracts  unnecessary ones, monitor lapsing of
                                            or international commitments.              time-bound SROs, and define clear criteria

                                            The privatization of the Sui North LPG     for maintaining required ones. (Mostly done)

                                            Plant has been completed.                  Continued implementation of program to grant
                                                                                       no new tax or duty exemptions or special
                                           The bidding for the privatization of the    privileges regarding income tax, custom duties,
                                           Saudi-Pak Fertilizer Company and Nine       or GST. No new regulatory duties to be
                                           Working Interests in Oil and Gas has been   imposed. Phasing out of time-bound regulatory
                                           completed.                                  import duties and no adoption of new ones
                                                                                       except for existing contracts or international
                                                                                       commitments. Policy changes to be confined to
                                                                                       regular and transparent forums, such as the
                                                                                       annual budget. (Done)

                                                                                       The government will have issued the
                                                                                       Competition Law Ordinance (replacing the
                                                                                       Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices Act of
                                                                                       1978) to control and eliminate anti-competitive
                                                                                       business practices and unfair methods of
                                                                                       competition that adversely affect trade and
                                                                                       economic development. (Not yet done)

TRADE REFORM                                To reduce the anti-export bias and
                                            encourage exports, the maximum tariff
                                            rate has been reduced from 35 percent
                                            to 30 percent and the tariff slabs
                                            reduced from five to four.

BANKING AND FINANCIAL                       The restructuring of the three             The restructuring of the three nationalized
SECTOR REFORM                               nationalized commercial banks has          commercial banks has been initiated. Six

Improve sector governance through           been initiated. Six hundred and fifty      hundred and fifty branches have been closed

restructuring, privatization and            branches have been closed and eight        and eight thousand staff have taken voluntary

strengthened banking supervision.           thousand staff have taken voluntary        retirement. (Done)
                                            retirement.



                                                                - 25 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)            Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

                                           As part of the restructuring               As part of the restructuring non-performing
                                           non-performing financial institutions, the financial institutions, the country's largest
                                           country's largest non-bank institution     non-bank institution ­the National Finance
                                           ­the National Finance Development          Development Corporation has been closed
                                           Corporation has been closed through a      through a merger with the state-owned National
                                           merger with the state-owned National       Bank of Pakistan. (Done)
                                           Bank of Pakistan.                          To strengthen banking system regulations and
                                           To strengthen banking system               enhance the quality of monetary policy, the
                                           regulations and enhance the quality of     non-core functions of the State Bank of Pakistan
                                           monetary policy, the non-core functions    (SBP) have been devolved to a newly created SBP
                                           of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)        Banking Services Corporation. (Done)
                                           have been devolved to a newly created
                                           SBP Banking Services Corporation.          To improve financial sector governance and
                                                                                      strengthen the banking system, the 1997 Loan
                                           To improve financial sector governance     Recovery Act has been amended to facilitate
                                           and strengthen the banking system, the     foreclosure of bank collateral. (Done)
                                           1997 Loan Recovery Act has been
                                           amended to facilitate foreclosure of      The government has divested 10 percent of its
                                           bank collateral.                          shares in the National Bank of Pakistan, and further

                                           The government has divested 10            divested its minority shares of Muslim Commercial

                                           percent of its shares in the National     Bank from 15 to 9 percent. (Done)

                                           Bank of Pakistan, and further divested
                                           its minority shares of Muslim
                                           Commercial Bank from 15 to 9 percent.

AGRICULTURE SECTOR REFORM The federal and provincial governments
                                           have removed all restrictions to           The government will have carried out an analysis

                                           inter-district and/or inter-province       of existing rural policies with a focus on land

                                           transport of agriculture commodities       markets. (Not yet done)

                                           including wheat.                           To promote quality in production and foster
                                           The provincial governments have            exports, the federal and provincial governments
                                           removed all restrictions to the free       will have (a) established a national grading and
                                           movement of certified seeds throughout     standardization system for cotton; (b) liberalized
                                           each province.                             the sugar market by eliminating restrictions for the

                                           The government has liberalized the         merger and consolidation of sugar mills, and

                                           imports and exports of all agriculture     removed zoning requirements for sale/purchase of

                                           products.                                  sugar cane; and (c) reduce the role of government
                                                                                      in wheat marketing. (Not yet done)

NATURAL GAS SECTOR REFORM

To enhance sector development through The government has issued an ordinance
tariff reform, privatization, and improved to establish the Oil and Gas Regulatory
regulatory environment.                    Authority.

PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM                    The privatization of Sui North LPG Plant The government will have brought to the point of

To increase efficiency and growth          has been completed.                        sale the main companies in the sector: Oil and Gas

through deregulation, market               The bidding for the privatization          Development Corporation and Pakistan State Oil.

liberalization, and enhanced               working interest in nine oil fields has    (Done)

competition.                               been completed.                            The government will have developed internationally-
                                                                                      accepted standards for petroleum product specifications and
To protect the environment through                                                    will have announced a mandatory time-frame for their
adoption of cleaner better quality                                                    adoption. The latter would include the phasing-out of
products.                                                                             unleaded gasoline, and limits to the sulfur content in diesel
                                                                                      to a maximum of 0.5 percent. (Partially done)




                                                                 - 26 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)      Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

POWER SECTOR REFORM                      A financial improvement plan has been The government will have brought KESC, FESCO
                                          agreed between the Borrower and          and JAMCO to the point of sale in FY03 and
To establish a competitive electric power WAPDA, setting out the measures          started implementation of the follow-up plan to
system consisting of privately-owned,     needed for WAPDA, the GENCOs,            further private sector participation in distribution
financially viable, and efficiently       NTDC and the DISCOs to become            and generation--including privatization of
operated companies.                       financially viable, including tariff and remaining DISCOs and GENCOs. (Mostly done)
                                          non-tariff adjustments which will        The government will have announced a strategy
                                          enable WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC           and initiated the implementation of a phased
                                          and the DISCOs to achieve, under a       program towards the introduction of a competitive
                                          reasonable forecast of revenues and      wholesale electricity market. (Not done)
                                          expenditures, an overall debt/service
                                          coverage ratio of 1.2 by the end of      NEPRA will have completed the regulatory
                                          FY03; and (b) pursuant to such plan, a   framework by issuing regulations and guidelines
                                          tariff increase of Rs. 0.045 per kilowattpertaining to, but not limited to, performance
                                          hour on account of the fuel adjustment   standards, revised system for the automatic fuel
                                          cost determined by NEPRA as at end       adjustment clause, and introduction of multi-year
                                          of March 2002, together with an          tariffs. (Partially done)
                                          interim structural tariff increase of Rs.
                                          0.08 per kilowatt hour has been
                                          introduced effective May 15, 2002.
                                                      2. Improving Governance
EFFICIENT AND EQUITABLE                                                            CBR will have initiated the implementation of an
MOBILIZATION OF RESOURCES                                                          information technology based system of tax
To improve tax policy and tax                                                      assessment and audit. (Not done)
administration to increase revenues and
improve governance.                                                                A Large Tax Payer Unit will have been established
                                                                                   in Karachi and then extended to other large
                                                                                   commercial centers. (Done in Karachi)

CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                      To improve performance and reduce        The provincial and district governments will have

To improve the performance of the civil   corruption the Civil Service Act has     defined arrangements for transferring

service by restoring integrity,           been amended to enable the government    responsibilities for staff recruitment and personnel

autonomy, and adoption of modern          to prematurely retire civil servants who management from the provinces to the district

personnel and management practices.       are found to be inefficient and have     level. (Partially done)
                                          completed 20 years of service.           A strategy to strengthen the professionalism of the civil
                                          To improve the quality and               service in key areas of economic and financial
                                          performance of higher level staff,       management will have been agreed and implementation
                                          examination requirements have been       started by creation of Economist Cadre. (Partially done)
                                          established as a prerequisite for
                                          promotions (to grades 17, 19 and 20).

                                          The government has implemented
                                          initial phase of right-sizing program of
                                          the Federal Secretariat by eliminating
                                          vacant posts and placing redundant
                                          personnel in a surplus pool.

                                          The first phase of the pay and pension
                                          reform scheme for the federal
                                          government's civilian and military
                                          personnel has been implemented
                                          through: (a) the revision of pay scales;
                                          and (b) the rationalization of pension
                                          benefits.



                                                              - 27 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)                Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

DEVOLUTION                         The Local Government Ordinances to             The government will have carried through with the

Implement devolution to improve    reconstruct and regulate local                 continued implementation of programs of capacity

governance in service delivery     governments were promulgated on                building with special focus on establishing clear
                                   August 2001 in each of the four                budgetary procedures and improved financial
                                   provinces.                                     management. (Partially done)

                                   The local government s have started their      Provincial Finance Awards (one per province)
                                   functions with their own budget under          defining rules for inter-governmental fiscal
                                   transition arrangements with the               relations will have been established. (Partially
                                   provincial governments.                        done)

                                                                                  The local government will have started preparing
                                                                                  and implementing their own budgets from FY03.
                                                                                  (Partially done)
                                                                                  The federal, provincial, and district governments
                                                                                  will have agreed and defined measurable indicators
                                                                                  to monitor the performance of local governments
                                                                                  and their effectiveness in service delivery. (Not yet
                                                                                  done)
                                           3. Improving Human Development

POLICY, FISCAL, AND                The FY02 budget allocations of the
MONITORING FRAMEWORK               federal, provincial, and local                 The federal and provincial governments will

                                   governments for human development              have established a clear fiscal framework to

                                   and pro-poor expenditures under the            finance the district governments and ensure

Increase the share of pro-poor     I-PRSP have been increased, in the             the regular flow of funds. (Partially done)

expenditures with monitoring and   aggregate, to Rs. 164 billion or 4.4% of
evaluation mechanisms to track     GDP.
progress
                                   A National PRSP Implementation
                                   Committee has been established in the
                                   Borrower's Ministry of Finance (MOF)
                                   to oversee the implementation of the
                                   Borrower's anti-poverty strategy as
                                   reflected in the I-PRSP and to help build
                                   consensus in support of the full PRSP
                                   under preparation, together with a
                                   PRSP Secretariat to coordinate the
                                   actions directed by the National PRSP
                                   Implementation Committee, and as part
                                   of this process: (a) a national poverty
                                   line and methodology have been
                                   established; and (b) intermediate health
                                   and education outcome indicators have
                                   been formulated and are being
                                   evaluated, with a view to preparing an
                                   action plan not later than September
                                   2002 to improve the monitoring tools
                                   established therefore.

                                   The government has established as a part of the
                                   I-PRSP an expenditure tracking mechanism for
                                   pro-poor (or I-PRSP expenditures). Quarterly
                                   expenditure reports are being prepared and
                                   disseminated to the public.




                                                        - 28 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              Pre-Board (SAC2 conditions in bold)               Post-Board (SAC3 conditions in bold)

EDUCATION                                The consolidated budget allocations of the       The consolidated federal, provincial, and district

Increase enrollments, narrow gender federal, provincial, and district government          governments budgets would have increased the

gaps, and increase quality of education. budgets for education have increased to Rs       share of education expenditures in FY04 in line

                                         72.5 billion or 2.0 percent of GDP.              with recommendations from Public Expenditure
                                                                                          Review and costing of reforms under the PRSP.
                                         To increase public financing of private          (Done)
                                         education, the federal government has
                                         approved a new charter for the National         The government will have expanded public-private

                                         Education Foundation.                           partnerships through restructuring of the National
                                                                                         Education Foundation. (Partially done)

                                         The Cabinet has approved a national strategy    The government will have established a system for

                                         to promote private sector participation in      collecting reliable data, including outcome-based

                                         education.                                      indicators, at the national, provincial and district levels.
                                                                                         (Partially done)

                                                                                         Continued implementation of the Education Reform
                                                                                         Strategy and monitoring of education outcomes.
                                                                                         (Partially done)
                                                                                         The government will have completed the development
                                                                                         of the National Education Assessment Initiative at the
                                                                                         federal and provincial level. The first assessment will
                                                                                         have been conducted in FY05. (On track)

HEALTH                                                                                   The consolidated federal, provincial, and district
                                                                                         governments budgets will have increased the share of
                                                                                         health and population expenditures in the FY04 in line
Improve the health status of the                                                         with recommendations from Public Expenditure Review
population through the expansion and                                                     and costing of reforms under the PRSP. (Not verified)
improved quality of preventive and
public health systems.                                                                   The government will have hired about 10,000 new
                                                                                         Lady Health Workers per year to reach its target of
                                                                                         78,000 workers in FY03 and 100,00 workers reaching
                                                                                         100 million women and children by FY05. (Partially
                                                                                         done)

                                                                                         Continued implementation of the National Health
                                                                                         Policy and monitoring of health outcomes. (On track)

SOCIAL PROTECTION                        The financing of the off-budget Zakat           The government will have established monitoring
                                         program has been increased from Rs. 8           and evaluation system for Zakat and strengthened
To help reduce poverty, develop human    billion to Rs. 10 billion to reach more than 2  the monitoring system for the Food Support
capital, and reduce gender imbalances    million beneficiaries.                          Program. Expansion of program based on lessons
through more active public policies.     The government has initiated the monitoring     learned from evaluation. (Not done)

To develop the government's capacity     and evaluation of the Food Support Program      The government will have established monitoring
to prepare and implement these           through third party surveys. The first survey   and evaluation systems for the Kushal program.
policies.                                has been conducted on a pilot basis by the
                                         University of Punjab.                           Expansion of program based on lessons learned
                                                                                         from evaluation. (Not done)
                                         The Pakistan Kushal program has been
                                         strengthened and it s budget allocation         The government will have strengthened the legal and

                                         increased to Rs. 15 billion or about 12 percent regulatory environment for micro-finance institutions

                                         of the country's public investment program.     and expansion of coverage of successful existing
                                                                                         programs. (Not done)
                                         The -credit program of the Micro-Credit Bank
                                         has been strengthened. Branches have been
                                         expanded to 30 (out of 100) districts.




                                                                        - 29 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million       US$ million
  BOP/Budget Support                                          500.00            500.00               100


  Total Baseline Cost                                         500.00            500.00
    Physical Contingencies                                                                           100
                          Total Project Costs                 500.00            500.00
                    Total Financing Required                  500.00            500.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.      IDA       Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
BOP/Budget               500.00                          500.00                         100.0




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                     Month/Year         Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                December 2001-                     2    Economists                            S               S
                March 2002                         1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Education Specialist
                                                   1    Health Specialist
                                                   2    Power Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
                April 2002 -                       3    Economists                            S               S
                May 2002                           1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Education Specialist
                                                   1    Health Specialist
                                                   2    Power Specialist

 Supervision
                September                          4    Economists                            S               S
                2002-May 2003
                                                   1    Education Specialist
                                                   1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Education Specialist
                                                   1    Health Specialist
                                                   2    Power Specialist

 ICR
                December 2002 -                    2     Economists                           S               S
                May 2003



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        47.79                           256.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  (included above)                (included above)
  Supervision
  ICR                                                1.73                            19.1
  Total                                             49.52                           *276
*Includes labor, travel and other costs.




                                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document For a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR395.2 million (US$500 million
equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a Second Structural Adjustment Credit, May 15, 2002.

Development Credit Agreement June 12, 2002.

Memorandum of the President on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, June
24, 2002.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)




                                                   - 35 -

- 36 -

