Report No. PID11136
Project Name                     Pakistan-Second Structural Adjustment
Credit
Region                           South Asia Region
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       PKPE74968
Borrower (s)                     Government of Pakistan (GoP)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Pakistan Secretariat, Islamabad
Contact Perso: Dr. Waqar Masood Khan,
Additional Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-51-9206367
Fax: 92-51-9214629
Environment Category             U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                April 12, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         April 15-24, 2002
Projected Board Date             June 11, 2002
1. Country Background
In the 1990s Pakistan suffered a number of political, economic, and
financial shocks. Bad governance contributed to large non-performing
loan portfolios of public sector banks, poor delivery of social
services, and to major inefficiencies and financial loses of public
enterprises. Despite efforts at tax reform, the tax-to-GDP ratio
remained stuck at about 13 percent (with the Central Board of Revenue
tax efforts falling) and the fiscal deficit remained above 6 percent
causing a continuous increase in public debt. Growth started to slow
down. Failures in governance and financing also affected the strategy
to narrow the social gap by improving basic education, health, and
reduce gender imbalances through the Social Action Program, which did
not yield the expected results.
Policymakers were not indifferent to the country's slippage. They
responded by initiating a number of important liberalizing reforms
designed to modernize the economy, build human capital and boost
growth. Yet, frequent changes in government weakened the formulation
and implementation of critical reforms, especially in the area of
governance. The fiscal problem was not solved. Prudent monetary
policy prevented the fiscal deficit from fueling high inflation, but
one consequence of this was the maintenance of a relatively strong
real exchange rate, which contributed to the external debt buildup.
The liberalization of interest rates also raised the cost of servicing
the public debt and thus contributed to the emergence of unsustainable
debt dynamics. The realization that a debt problem was building up,
combined with unease about institutional weaknesses, eroded
governmental credibility and hence constrained investment and a
revival of growth.
Since assuming power in October 1999, the military government showed
awareness of the country's difficult circumstances. Its response was



the quick articulation of ambitious reforms aimed at modernizing
Pakistan, and its institutions. Many aspects of the reform agenda
built on efforts of previous administrations, yet a salient new
feature was the government's attention to governance. Cross-cutting
measures to improve governance were made the center the reform program
so Pakistan could gradually rebuild its severely eroded credibility,
re-establish confidence in public institutions, and improve the
investment climate to revive growth.
Progress in the implementation of reforms during the first two years
of the administration was unprecedented--both for the scope and the
depth of reforms. In the short period of time leading to the fiscal
year 2002 budget the government made significant progress in turning
around the poor governance environment that was at the core of
Pakistan's deteriorating performance. It implemented measures to
reform key institutions, reduce the fiscal deficit, encourage export-
oriented growth, improve the climate for domestic and foreign
investment, strengthen the banking system, improve public financial
management and accountability, enhance transparency and external
oversight of government actions, strengthen social safety nets, and
improve the delivery of key public services in health, education, and
family planning.
2. Objectives
The Second Structural Adjustment Credit supports the continued
implementation of the country's poverty reduction strategy as spelled
out in the I-PRSP and, together with the support from the IMF, AsDB
and donors, would contribute to improve the prospects of external debt
sustainability. Pakistan is not in a position to implement its poverty
reduction strategy without first stabilizing the economy, and laying
the institutional basis for good governance. The upside is that
significant external support--from the IFIs (including the Bank),
Governments, and private creditors--will help maintain the viability of
the balance of payments and the macroeconomic stability for the period
needed to implement structural reforms, and allow Pakistan time to
restore investor confidence. Without this support, Pakistan faces the
prospect of financial austerity that will further delay poverty
reduction and human development.
3. Rationale of Bank's Involvement
This operation, which follows the Structural Adjustment Credit of June
2001, is the Bank's main vehicle to support during this fiscal year
the implementation of the I-PRSP's medium term program of reforms. The
proposed operation is a key instrument in the implementation of the
agreed Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
4. Description
The proposed Credit supports the implementation of the government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy which focuses on:
ni      Engendering Growth.   Pakistan's main challenge is to revive
economic growth to at least 5 percent per year to accelerate poverty
reduction. The government has made economic revival the central
objective of reforms. In particular, it has focused on the
-2 -



following policies and objectives: (a) addressing the debt problem
through fiscal consolidation and more rapid and stable export
growth; (b) Improving revenue mobilization and changing the
composition of expenditures to create the fiscal space for social
sectors and critical infrastructure; and (c) improving the business
environment by providing a level playing field to all areas of
business, removing distortions, reducing the cost of doing business,
and carrying through with power sector reforms to increase
efficiency and promote macroeconomic stability.
ni      Improving Governance.   Sagging growth and rising poverty are a
result of the failure of governance. Restoring the integrity and
accountability of state institutions are the hallmark of the reform
program with a particular focus on: (a) tax administration reforms;
(b) devolution of powers to newly established local governments; (c)
improved public financial management; and (d) civil service reforms.
ni      Improving Human Development.   Arresting the crisis of human
development is essential for future sustainable growth and poverty
reduction. The priority is to improve the delivery system of basic
education, preventive health care, and family planning while
gradually increasing expenditures as the fiscal space is created
through stronger growth, improved tax administration, and continued
donor support.
ni      Improving Social Protection and Employment Opportunities.    To
reduce the vulnerability of the poor by enhancing opportunities
through access to credit through, redistribution of public lands,
implementation of community-based infrastructure programs, and
direct cash transfers for the neediest.
5. Financing
US$500 million
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating and overseeing
the implementation of reforms. This work is being coordinated with the
sectoral Ministries of Water and Power, Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resource, Ministry of Privatization, Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Health, the Planning Commission, the State Bank of
Pakistan, the Central Board of Revenue, the National Reconstruction
Bureau, The Pakistan Audit Department, the newly-formed Comptroller
General of Accounts Office, and the provincial Governments. Technical
working groups are working in all these areas of reform, in most cases
with technical assistance from the IMF, World Bank, Asian Development
Bank, and the donors.
7. Sustainability
Reform is a long-term commitment. This is especially relevant for
governance reforms and institutional reforms that will take years of
persistent efforts to bear fruits. The I-PRSP which is the fruit of
consultations provides a framework for continuity of policy reforms.
- 3-



However, sustained implementation will require continuous buy-in of
the population. The concrete improvements in their lives as a result
of implementation of reforms will be the key for sustainability.
8. Lessons Learnt from Past Experience
Several lessons of experience have been learned from previous
operations in Pakistan, and have been reflected in the preparation of
this Credit:
(a)     A quick-disbursing single-tranche loan, prepared within the
framework of a medium-term reform program, in which all policy
actions are implemented before the loan is presented to the Board
is an effective way of supporting reforms and providing
governments with the needed financial capital to sustain their
reform programs while minimizing implementation risks.
(b)     Close coordination with other international financial
institutions benefits borrowers. The Bank has collaborated very
closely with the IMF in preparing SAC I and this Credit, and also
with the AsDB, DFID, the UN agencies and the majority of donors
active in Pakistan in sectoral work in governance, and social
sector reform.
(c)     Bank advice and financial support is not imposed as a
conditionality but instead complements the Government's own
efforts. The Bank's main role has been of a facilitator and to
help specify the results.
(d)     Strong field presence is important to facilitate the
dialogue. The Country Director's presence in Pakistan has
facilitated continuous dialogue and speeded the Bank's response
to requests for technical assistance in the preparation of the
Credit.
9. Program of Targeted Interventions
Support to the overall government program that includes: Kushal
Pakistan, Food Support Program, Micro Credit initiatives in rural
areas and for small and medium enterprises. Program of monitoring and
evaluation to assess impact of reforms.
10. Environment Aspects
The policy measures supported by the Credit are not expected to have
a direct negative impact on the environment. On the contrary, the
energy sector reforms supported by this operation are expected to
increase production and availability of cleaner fuels (natural gas,
LPG) and to improve the quality of petroleum products. Pakistan has
also a comprehensive and modern Environmental Law, and during recent
years has been building the institutional framework to enforce the
legislation. However, Pakistan's public administrative capacity is
weak. The Bank is conducting an assessment of the degree of
compliance that exists with respect to environmental legislation in
key areas, and identify institutional reforms that may be needed in
the future.
11. Contact Points:
-4-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Task Manager
John Panzer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1938
Fax: (202) 522-0356
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
-5-



