Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3655 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 11, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3655 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 2002, between ISLAMIC REBULIC OF PAKISTAN 
acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 14, 
Page  2
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve poverty 
reduction through broad-based structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
Page  3
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BPS” means the Basic Pay Scales of the Borrower;
(b)
“CBR” means the Central Board of Revenue of the Borrower established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924 (Act No. IV of 1924);
(c)
“debt/service coverage ratio” means a debt/service coverage ratio as defined in 
Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, dated March 7, 1996, between the Bank and WAPDA for 
Loan No. 3965 PAK (Ghazi-Barotha Hydropower Project);
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(e)
“DISCOs” means the Borrower’s Power Distribution Companies, incorporated 
under the laws of the Borrower, being the Lahore Electric Supply Company, the Faisalabad  
Electric Supply Company, the Gujranwala  Electric Power Company, the Islamabad  Electric 
Supply Company, the Multan Electric Power Company, the Peshawar Electric Supply Company, 
Page  4
the Quetta Electric Supply Company and the Hyderabad Electric Supply Company;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning July 1 
and ending the following June 30; 
(g)
“GENCOs” means the Borrower’s Power Generation Companies, incorporated 
under the laws of the Borrower, being the Jamshoro Power Generation Company, the Central 
Power Generation Company and the Northern Power Generation Company;
(h)
“GST” means the General Sales Tax levied in the territory of the Borrower; 
(i)
“I-PRSP” means the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of the Borrower 
dated November 2001;
(j)
“NEPRA” means the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority of the 
Borrower established and operating under the Borrower’s Regulation, Transmission and 
Distribution of Electric Power Act, 1997 (Act No. XL of 1997), as amended from time to time;
(k)
“NTDC” means the Borrower’s National Transmission and Despatch Company, 
incorporated under the laws of the Borrower;
(l)
“PPL” means the Pakistan Petroleum Limited, incorporated under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(m)
“PRSP” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper;
(n)
“Rupees” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(o)
“WAPDA” means the Water and Power Development Authority of the Borrower 
established and operating under the Borrower’s WAPDA Act, 1958 (W.P. Act XXXI of 1958) as 
amended from time to time.
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three hundred ninety-five million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 395,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1 commencing December 1, 2012, and ending June 1, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2022, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent 
(2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division is 
Page  7
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 4.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred; and
(b)
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  8
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the Secretary to 
the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECONOMIC ECDIV-05-634
(9251) 
9205971
Islamabad
(9251) 9210734
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Page  9
By /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
Page  10
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  11
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement
A.
Engendering Growth
1.
(a)
Actions have been taken by CBR to increase the transparency and speed of 
refunds of GST and duty drawbacks to exporters; and (b) such refunds in the first 9 months of 
FY 2001/02 have registered an increase of about 45% over such refunds in the corresponding 
period of FY 2000/01.
2.
(a)
A new Gas Pricing Framework for PPL gas has been established, which will 
bring the PPL well-head price up to, and maintain it at, a level equal to fifty percent (50%) of the 
well-head price fixed from time to time for the Zone III gas fields as defined in the Borrower’s 
Petroleum Exploration and Production Policy dated 
May 1, 2001, through successive semi-annual adjustments over a period of five (5) years, 
according to a plan previously approved by the Borrower; and (b) the first adjustment of PPL gas 
prices under such Framework has taken place and is reflected in consumer prices.
3.
(a) 
A formula has been adopted by the Borrower under which retail and ex-refinery 
prices of all petroleum products are based upon international prices and adjusted automatically 
on a fortnightly basis; and (b) since July 1, 2001, except for a break from March 15, 2002 
through May 15, 2002, all scheduled price adjustments under such formula have taken place.
4.
With a view to completing the corporatization of WAPDA’s Power Wing: (a) the 
transfer of staff in BPS 1-16 from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC, and the DISCOs, has 
been completed; (b) valid operating licenses have been issued by NEPRA to the DISCOs; and (c) 
the principles of supplementary Business Transfer Agreements, providing for the transfer of 
assets and liabilities, other rights and obligations from WAPDA to the GENCOs, the NTDC and 
the DISCOs, respectively, have been approved by the Borrower.
5.
(a)
A financial improvement plan has been agreed between the Borrower and 
WAPDA, setting out the measures needed for WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC and the DISCOs to 
become financially viable, including tariff and non-tariff adjustments which will enable 
WAPDA, the GENCOs, NTDC and the DISCOs to achieve, under a reasonable forecast of 
revenues and expenditures, an overall debt/service coverage ratio of 1.2 by the end of 
FY2002/03; and (b) pursuant to such plan, a tariff increase of  Rs 0.045 per kilowatt hour on 
account of the fuel adjustment cost determined by NEPRA as at end of March 2002, together 
with an interim structural tariff increase of Rs 0.08 per kilowatt hour, has been introduced 
effective May 15, 2002. 
6.
Price and profiteering and hoarding controls on all but two of the sixty-six  essential 
products specified in the Schedule to the Borrower’s Price Control and Prevention of 
Profiteering and Hoarding Act, 1977 (Act No. XXIX of 1977) have been removed.
B.
Improving Governance
7.
A medium-term reform strategy and action plan for CBR has been approved by the 
Borrower, providing for a modern, progressive, effective and credible organization for 
optimizing revenue by providing quality service and promoting compliance with tax laws.
Page  12
8.
The first phase of the Borrower’s pay and pension reform scheme for civilian and 
military personnel has been implemented through: (a) the revision of pay scales; and (b) the 
rationalization of pension benefits. 
9.
The Borrower’s Procurement Regulatory Authority Ordinance, 2002 (Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2002) has been issued, with a view to regulating the procurement of goods, services and 
works by the public sector.
10.
The ad hoc Public Accounts Committees wherever existing in the Borrower’s provinces 
have opened up their proceedings to the press on the lines of the Borrower’s federal ad hoc 
Public Accounts Committee.
C.
Improving Human Development and Social Protection
11.
The FY 2001/2002 budget allocations of the Borrower’s federal, provincial and local 
governments for human development and pro-poor expenditures under the I-PRSP have been 
increased, in the aggregate, to one hundred sixty-four billion rupees (Rs. 164 billion) or four and 
four-tenths of one percent (4.4%) of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
12.
A National PRSP Implementation Committee has been established in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance (MOF) to oversee the implementation of the Borrower’s anti-poverty 
strategy as reflected in the I-PRSP and to help build consensus in support of the full PRSP under 
preparation, together with a PRSP Secretariat to coordinate the actions directed by the National 
PRSP Implementation Committee, and as part of this process: (a) a national poverty line and 
methodology has been established; and 
(b) intermediate health and education outcome indicators have been formulated and are being 
evaluated, with a view to preparing an action plan not later than September 2002, to improve the 
monitoring tools established therefor. 
Page  13
13.
Pursuant to the Borrower’s Education Sector Reform Program: (a) additional budgetary 
resources for education
 
have been directed at the Borrower’s provincial and local governments; 
(b) a National Education Assessment Initiative has been launched; and (c) school rehabilitation, 
teacher training and girls schooling and feeding programs conducted by the Borrower’s federal, 
provincial and local governments have been expanded.
14.
Pursuant to the Borrower’s National Health Policy: (a) an Expanded Immunization 
Program for children has been launched by the Borrower; (b) the Borrower’s Lady Health 
Workers Program has been strengthened through the appointment of an additional 10,000 Lady 
Health Workers; (c) the Borrower’s Tuberculosis Control Program has been expanded; and (d) a 
national strategic HIV/AIDS prevention program has been formulated by the Borrower for 
imminent launching.
