Report No. PID5820
Project Name                     Romania-Social Development Fund
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Social Sector Adjustment
Project ID                       ROPE49200
Borrower                         Government of Romania
Implementing Agency              Government, represented by the Social
Development Fund;
contact: State Counselor Mihai Hanagic,
Tel.:40-1-3113617;
Fax:40-1-3113619
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           October, 10, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         January, 18, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Romania is a lower middle-income country (US$1,450 GNP in
1996). With a population of 23 million, it is the second most
populous country in central and eastern Europe. The new Government,
elected in November 1996, launched an economic program which has
already led to macroeconomic stabilization and substantial reforms
in all sectors of the economy. While pushing ahead with economic
reforms, the Government has also decided to fight poverty and
cushion the social cost of reforms by strengthening the social
safety net and supporting reforms in the social sectors.
2.      The World Bank Poverty Assessment found that in 1994, 22
percent of the population lived below the poverty line. Poverty is
deep: the poverty gap is 25 percent of the poverty line. The rate of
poverty in rural areas is nearly double than the rate in urban
areas. Only 15 percent of the rural population has access to running
water and sewerage. Half of the poor population falls in the
category of permanent poor (especially older farmers with small
plots of land, past their productive years). The passive centralized
safety nets do not succeed in reaching all of the poor. These
programs need to be complemented with more proactive measures, which
may serve as an opportunity for the poor to become self-reliant and
be able to access resources which addresses their needs.
3.      The existence of poverty was hardly acknowledged by previous
governments. After the general elections in November 1996, the new
President made a personal commitment towards poverty reduction. A
Presidential National Poverty Commission was created, mandated to
develop a Poverty Alleviation Strategy. The Prime minister showed a
personal interest in the establishment, under his aegis, of a Social
Development Fund, conceived as a tool to address poverty at the



community level.
4.         The country has inherited a strong tradition of
centralization. Although the government is committed to
decentralization, local decision-makers often lack the knowledge and
skills to address poverty issues at the grass-roots level. NGOs have
demonstrated their ability to develop and implement local social
projects. Local administrations have formed recently, on an
experimental basis, partnerships with NGOs for the purpose of
delivering social services.
Objectives
5.      The project aims to contribute towards poverty alleviation and
to develop local capacities for self-help and management, through:
(a) improving the livelihood of project beneficiaries in poor rural
communities and in disadvantaged urban groups; (b) increasing the
capacity of local authorities to address poverty; (c) increasing the
level of inter-personal trust, civic engagement and organizational
capability in communities.
Description
6.      Under the project, an autonomous institution will be created,
the "Social Development Fund" (SDF), under the aegis of the Prime
minister. A steering committee, chaired by a President will set the
broad policy guidelines for the Fund. An Executive Director, with a
small staff, will ensure the daily operation.
7.      The SDF will help reduce poverty in poor rural communities and
disadvantaged urban groups by awarding grants on a competitive
basis, to demand-driven sub-projects in three categories:
-- small scale rural infrastructure (rehabilitate, upgrade, build or
equip small roads, water supplies etc.);
-- community based social services for disadvantaged groups in urban
areas (e.g. home care for poor elderly, day-care centers/protected
homes for street children, juridical assistance for poor for
accessing social protection programs);
-- income generating activities and employment opportunities in poor
rural communities (support to handicraft associations, cooperatives
of farm and non-farm products, revitalizing agricultural fairs).
The SDF will provide technical assistance and training to
facilitators (NGOs, university students, local leaders) who will
help poor communities identify and prioritize needs, organize sub-
project committees, design, implement and monitor sub-projects.
Assistance will also be provided to local authorities, to develop
their capacity for participatory identification of needs, project
design, implementation and monitoring, use of cost-effective
standards and appropriate technologies for building small
infrastructure and contracting social services.
8.      Targeting the poor will involve: geographical targeting, using
existing poverty maps for: (i) establishing pre-allocation ceilings
or (ii) additional rating points to sub-projects originated from
poor counties; using simple indicators as eligibility criteria for
- 2 -



selection of sub-projects submitted by poor rural communities; self-
targeting by disadvantaged groups; establishing guidelines for
facilitators working in poor rural communities and with
disadvantaged groups.
Financing
9.      The total project cost is estimated at about US$45 million, of
which an IBRD loan of approximately US$20 million, the Romanian
government contribution of approximately US$5 million. The
contribution of other donors is expected to reach approximately
US$20 million.
Implementation
10.     The Romanian Social Development Fund will be responsible for
implementing the project. The Fund will operate through clearly
defined procedures and manuals. Sub-project proposals for SDF
financing will be prepared by communities, NGOs, local authorities,
themselves, or in partnerships. Facilitators will help poor
communities in this process. Ownership is assured through the
participatory approach in defining needs and through substantial
community contributions (in kind and financial) to sub-project
implementation and future maintenance. Both office and site
appraisals will be done by staff contracted by the SDF. The SDF will
ensure the sub-project monitoring and supervision.
Sustainability
11.     The SDF project is expected to contribute to the sustainable
development of poor rural communities and to the sustainable
establishment of social services for disadvantaged groups. Since
communities will participate in sub-project identification and
implementation, ownership will be created at the beginning and this
will help ensure future maintenance, and will provide incentives for
local administrations to continue funding beyond the end of the
project. Beneficiaries partnerships will include funding schemes,
through which local authorities will gradually take over financing
social services. Capacity building activities under the project will
help sustain services and benefits beyond the life of the project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
12.     The existing universal (untargeted)social safety nets do not
succeed in reaching all the poor. The means-tested social assistance
program, designed to guarantee a minimum subsistence income to poor
people and families has difficulties in reaching its objectives,
caused by bureaucratic procedures, lack of qualified staff and
exclusion errors. The project will channel funds directly to poor
rural communities and disadvantaged urban groups. NGOs have
demonstrated their ability to implement social services. Many NGOs
are actively seeking partnerships with local administrations.
13.     The central administration tends to be very slow in providing
support to the poor. The SDF's autonomy, efficiency and transparency
-3 -



are likely to speed-up poverty reduction. Lessons
Poverty Category
14.     The project falls in the category of targeted interventions.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The suggested environmental category is C.
Program Objective Categories
16.     The project will contribute to poverty reduction and capacity
building.
Contact Point:           Ana Maria Sandi, Program Team Leader
The World Bank Resident Mission in Romania
Blvd. Dacia 83
Bucharest, Romania
Telephone No.:   (40-1) 210 18 04
Fax No.:         (40-1) 210 20 21
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997
- 4 -



