Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24280-RO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44340)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FORA
SOCLAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT (APL #1)
5/31/2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit  Romanian Lei
US$1= Lei 31,597
lLeu = US$.0000316
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
BANK'S FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL               Adaptable Program Loan
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CBO               Community Based Organization
CDD               Community-Driven Development
CEB               Council of Eui ope Development Bank
DFID              Department for International Development (UK)
ECA               Europe and Central Asia
EU                European Union
GOR               Government of Romania
GSG               General Secretariat of the Government
IA                Implementing Agent
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
LA                Local Authority
MPF               Ministry of Public Finance
NGO               Non Governmental Organization
OC                Operations Committee
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PHRD              Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIP               Project Implementation Plan
PMC               Project Management Committee
ROC               Regional Operations Committee
RSDF              Romanian Social Development Fund
SDF               Social Development Fund
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
USAID             United States Agency for Intemational Development
WB                World Bank
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:                Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:                 Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader:                Ana Maria Sandi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Romania
Social Development Fund Project (APL 1)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data ..................................................................1 
2. Project Performance Ratings ...................................................................I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry ................                         I
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs ...........................................................                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..........................................                    9
6. Sustainability ..................................................................                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................                 11
8. Lessons Learned ..................................................................                               14
9. Partner Comments ..................................................................                              15
10. Additional Information ........          ...................................................................    16
Annexes
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix ..........................................                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................              18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................................               23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs ..................................................................                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components ......................                         27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ..............................................                    28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...............................................................               29
Annex 8. Joint Benchmarks Evaluation Mission, December 2000 .................................                       34
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report ................................................................              37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



[2ject ID: P049200                                     Project Name: Social Development Fund (APL #1)
[2m Leader: Ana Maria Sandi                            TL Unit: ECSHD
jCR Type: Core ICR                                     Report Date: June 10, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Social Development Fund (APL #1)            LIC/TF Number: SCL-44340
Country/lDepartment: ROMANIA                                         Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SF - Social Funds
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/30/1997                             Effective: 01/29/1999        03/30/1999
Appraisal: 06/03/1997                              MTR:
Approval: 01/19/1999                             Closing: 12/31/2001        12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/ROM. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Other Partners:
STAFF               Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                        Johannes F. Linn
Co untry Manager:   Andrew N. Vorkink                       Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:     Michal J. Rutkowski                      Michal J. Rutkowski
Te2m Leader at ICR:  Ana Maria Sandi                        Ana Maria Sandi
ICR Primary Author:  Mariana Doina Moarcas
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and' Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Social Development Fund (SDF) Program. The objectives of the program are to: contribute to
poverty alleviation and to community-driven development through: (a) improving the livelihood of project
beiieficiaries/ recipients in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups; and (b) increasing the local
organizational and self-help capacity. The SDF Program is financed by an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
consisting of two phases: SDF I (assessed in this ICR) and SDF II (to be implemented by 2006).



SDF I. The immediate goals of SDF I were to strengthen the capacity to implement, monitor and evaluate
the Program; and initiate selection, financing and implementation of sub-projects, to achieve Program
objectives.
SDF II. The second phase of the program, SDF II, would use feedback from the monitoring process to
improve the effectiveness of sub-projects in meeting Program objectives, continuing sub-projects selection,
financing and implementation.
According to APL procedures, in order to move from the first to the second phase of the Program, SDF I
was subject to thorough assessments before a decision was made in this respect. Given the fact that
evaluations were undertaken for SDF I and subsequent assessments were made during SDF II preparation,
this ICR was prepared after SDF I closing date and is based on the conclusions of the above mentioned
process. SDF I evaluations started with a Joint Benchmarks Evaluation Mission in December 2000 which
included Bank staff, Ministry of Public Finance (MPF) representatives and independent evaluators who
assessed SDF I based on a set of five triggers identified as conditions for moving to SDF II (see Additional
Annex 8). This evaluation also took into account the findings of a Beneficiary Assessment reporting 90%
level of satisfaction among project beneficiaries. The triggers were realistic and relevant and the SDF I
achievements were found to compare favorably with many other social funds and exceeded the initial
accomplishments of most Subsequent reviews were made both at Regional Operations Committee (ROC)
and Operations Committee (OC) levels under the SDF II preparation (since this was the second APL in the
Bank to move to a second phase).
The Program and its phasing were found to be well specified, the triggers were realistic and relevant,
adequately measuring the progress towards achievement of project and Program objectives and outcomes.
The Program objectives reflected the priorities identified both by the Government and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 16559 RO) dated June 30, 1997: (i) poverty alleviation and (ii)
decentralization. Their relevance continued to be fully endorsed by the latest CAS (report No. 22180 RO
dated May 22, 2001) which contains specific reference to the second phase of the Program.
The objectives proved to be clear and realistic; the successful implementation and outcomes of SDF I
provided a totally new, bottom-up approach to the poverty and decentralization issues faced by the
Government The most important policies supported by SDF I are the community based poverty alleviation
and the development of social capital at community level through strengthening local organizational
capacity. The Govemment commitment to poverty alleviation at community level through a demand driven
and participatory approach was reinforced when the second phase of the Program (SDF II) was negotiated
and an increased loan was requested from the Bank (from US$10.0 Million to US$ 20.0 Million).
Background information. The preparation of the project was initiated in 1997 in response to the
Romanian Govemment's acknowledgement of the increasing prevalence of poverty and a strong interest in
addressing this. In 1996, 22 percent of the population was reported living bellow the poverty line; in 1997,
30 percent of the population was in the same situation, and the situation was getting worse in 1998. This
was happening in a country with a strong tradition of centralization from the former communist era when
decision-making for all economic and social development was concentrated in the hands of central agencies.
In this context, the existing social safety nets financed from the central government were failing to reach all
the poor and were not covering all eligible categories such as abandoned women with many children,
homeless, 18-year olds leaving orphanages. Although Local Authorities (LAs) had been democratically
elected and decentralization was a high priority of the Government, their autonomy was restricted by lack
-2-



of appropriate legislation, financial constraints, lack of skills and experience in applying more proactive
measures and programs addressing poverty issues at community level. Overall, Romania had a low level of
social capital as a result of the systematic destruction of civil society and private property in the fifty years
of comrnmunism. Values and norms such as trust, transparency, reciprocity and participation had been
conitinuously undermined during those years and this was reflected in the people's passivity, inability to
arliculate their needs and to participate at the community level in common interest activities.
The need for overcoming the dependency culture, re-creating the sense of ownership and cooperation,
became a must and significant demand for help to self-help came from the communities themselves. This
corresponded well to the Bank's poverty reduction goal, and the community-driven development (CDD)
initiative was fully responsive to these needs and Romania became a CDD pilot country.
In this context, the Government expressed its determination to establish a Romanian Social Development
Fund (RSDF) as a tool to address poverty at community level. The Parliament, highly divided at that time,
passed, with no dissenting vote, a Law setting up the RSDF on June 30, 1998. Given the highly innovative
approach of such an initiative in the region at that time, the Government decided to embark on an SDF
PrDgram to test first its appropriateness. Thus, the first phase (SDF I) was designed to be the program
initiation phase. The Bank approved a loan of US$10.0 Million for SDF I (Ln. 4434 RO) in January 1999.
Essential to meeting the program objectives under SDF I was the support provided to tne implementing
agency, the RSDF, an independent, public-interest organization. The complexity of the program as well as
its innovative approach in channeling resources directly to poor beneficiaries had as its main risks the lack
of experience with such a model. However, the progress made by the institution over the implementation of
SD)F I, compare favorably with other social funds and exceed the initial accomplishments of most
(axcording to the independent benchmark assessment). RSDF became a knowledge resource for similar
institutions from the social funds family both from the ECA region and outside it. Beside the Bank loan
(US$ 10.0 million), RSDF also handled parallel financing to the project by the Council of Europe
Development Bank (CEB) (US$ 10.0 million), altogether with the Government of Romania (US$ 4.9
million) and the Recipients' contributions (US$ 2.1 million). The total project cost was estimated at US$
27.0 million.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Tlie objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
SD)F I had two components:
1.    RSDF Sub-Projects which included:
(i)l  financing sub-projects prepared by recipients in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups
for (a) small rural infrastructure; (b) community based social services; (c) income generating activities; and
(ii)  training and technical assistance aimed at community level capacity building for (a) participatory
identification and prioritization of needs; (b) design, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects; (c) use
of cost-effective standards and appropriate technologies for small infrastructure.
Cost: US$25.4 million
-3 -



2.     RSDF Institutional Support which was aimed at:
(i)    strengthening the institutional capacity of RSDF through training and technical assistance; and
(ii)   providing support to the overall management of the Program.
Cost: US$1.6 million
The components were designed so as to contribute to the Program objectives, as well as to the capacity
strengthening goals of SDF L.
Under Component 1, the objectives were to be met through initiating capacity building activities in poor
rural communities, and selecting and financing the first set of sub-projects, based on clear eligibility
criteria.
Under Component 2, RSDF institutional support was to be ensured through: (i) training facilitators in
community development and appropriate technologies, (ii) developing and implementing a promotion
strategy, (iii) establishing the RSDF administrative infrastructure, (iv) training appraisers and supervisors,
and (v) creating a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to analyze the outcome of the program.
Progress under SDF I demonstrated that poor communities were able to articulate their priorities for
assistance and participate in the design and implementation of demand-driven sub-projects. Through this
learning-by-doing mechanism, communities satisfied both their identified needs, and increased their ability
to (i) identify and prioritize demands, and (ii) mobilize and manage resources to design, implement, operate
and maintain their own projects.
A key element for the success of this operation was the capacity of the implementing agency, the RSDF, to
run all the activities conducting to grants awarded to communities, monitoring them and ensuring a well
functioning administrative and financial mechanism.
The design of the project components drew on important lessons learned from the country specific
situation, but also from previous Bank operations in Romania and with other social funds. Since the
existing safety-nets in Romania were not reaching all the poor, the system having both inclusion and
exclusion errors, with desperately needy people not even knowing they were entitled to benefits, the RSDF
was designed to channel funds directly to the beneficiaries. Also, the project design took into consideration
the demonstrated ability of NGOs to implement social services projects in partnership with LAs.
Based on lessons learned from previous Bank operations, a broad participation and sufficient time were
ensured in project preparation, a lot of consideration was allocated to information, promotion and
facilitation activities and efforts were made for ensuring adequate counterpart funding. Lessons learned
from other social funds included in the project design were: the need for ensuring political and institutional
autonomy; high level political support and commitment to the mission of RSDF; qualified staff paid at
market rates; a dynamic executive director with good management experience; targeting mechanisms for
reaching the poor, wide facilitation and promotion; strong local participation; clearly defined eligibility and
appraisal criteria and transparent appraisal procedures; use of appropriate technologies in sub-project
design; and rigorous sub-project supervision and regular financial and operational auditing.
3.4 Revised Components:
SDF I components were not revised.
-4 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
QLlaIity at entry is rated highly satisfactory. This rating is based on: (i) the consistency of the objectives
with the priorities identified by the Government and called for in the Bank CAS for poverty alleviation and
decentralization; (ii) the project design which focused on building social capital at grass-roots level and
fostered community ownership. The assumptions on the needs, implementation arrangements, capacity and
priorities were realistic and in line with the situation in the country. The PAD clearly described the
enLvisaged benefits of developing social capital at community level, taking people out of passivity through a
demand-driven, participatory approach. At the same time, the project design took into consideration the
potential risks which were accurately described in the PAD. The PAD reflected the findings of the social
assessment, a targeting study (poverty map) and other relevant studies.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenient ofobjective:
The overall achievement of Program objectives under its first phase (SDF I) - to contribute to poverty
alleviation and to community-driven development through: (a) improving the livelihood of project
beneficiaries/ recipients in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups; and (b) increasing the local
organizational and self-help capacity - is rated Highly Satisfactory.
The immediate SDF I objectives were relevant to the country needs and appropriate to the Bank's goal for
poverty alleviation as reflected in the CAS as well as the Bank's CDD approach.
The achievements of the project have been remarkable and this was verified by the high degree of
iavolvement and satisfaction expressed by the project beneficiaries as reflected by the Beneficiary
Assessment, as well as by the joint evaluation performed by the representatives of the Bank, the Ministry of
Public Finance and by independent evaluators prior to deciding on moving to the second phase of the
programr (SDF II). The level of satisfaction among project beneficiaries was 90%/o (Beneficiary Assessment
Report, Metro Media Transilvania, 2000) exceeding the expected 75% in the PAD; the number of new
community based organizations (CBOs) created under SDF I was approximately 244 (following
iapleemented sub-projects) and 1,600 (at application stage) and it definitely proved the potential for local
arganizational and self help capacity. It was demonstrated that in less than two years, the project succeeded
in its initial efforts to help poor communities organize themselves, identify their own needs and implement
sub-projects designed to improve living conditions and alleviate poverty in their communities. The
financing had an immediate, direct and positive impact on the quality of life of the beneficiaries, hence their
high level of satisfaction. Poor nural communities benefit from improved ifrastructure through 339 small
nural infrastructure sub-projects; disadvantaged groups benefit from community based social services
through 60 sub-projects and improved incomes and employment opportunities among target population
resulted from 125 grants for income-generating sub-projects. RSDF reports showed that sub-project
selection and implementation reflected a good gender balance and included marginalized members in the
relevant communities. A number of sub-projects especially targeted women and marginaized groups,
nmainly within the income generating and social services categories.
Field visits, RSDF administrative data and the beneficiary assessments showed an increased capacity of
CBOs, local authorities and NGOs to deal in a demand-oriented, participatory way with problems of the
poor. Social capital was found to have increased in RSDF-supported communities (reflected in increased
bust among community members, and in LAs). Most sub-projects have established partnerships with
partners (LAs, CBOs and NGOs), showing an important departure from the taditional centalized
command and control system of public investment. The participatory approaches used by the RSDF have
-5 -



proven to be an important tool supporting the Government's efforts for poverty alleviation and community
driven development as evidenced by the use of RSDF trained facilitators, appraisers and supervisors in
other Government programs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. RSDF Sub-Projects (US$25.4 million). This component was rated Highly Satisfactory. It included: (i)
financing sub-projects in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups and (ii) training and technical
assistance aimed at community level capacity building.
(i) Financing sub-projects in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups. Under this sub-component
about 1,000 sub-projects were expected to be appraised for grants award. Of these, about 500 sub-projects
were estimated to be awarded grants, implemented by the recipients and supervised by the RSDF in three
categories: small-scale infrastructure sub-project (more than 300) with a grant ceiling of US$ 75,000;
community-based social services sub-projects (more than 85) with a grant ceiling of US$20,000; and
income generating activities and sub-projects supporting employment opportunities (more than 85) with a
grant ceiling of US$20,000. These performance indicators were formulated in the PAD taking into account
all project financing resources.
Given the delay in the availability of funds from the parallel financing (US$ 10.0 million) of the Council of
Europe Development Bank (CEB) by more than a year and a half, a joint decision (Bank, Ministry of
Finance) was made to de-link the two loans for evaluation purposes and refer to performance indicators
reduced to a half so as to correctly assess the project outputs based on the available resources excluding the
CEB loan. The RSDF has exceeded its targets, as follows: by the project closing date (December 31,
2001), 2,273 sub-project proposals were received, 1,794 applications were eligible; 1,388 applications
were desk appraised, 753 applications were field appraised and 524 grants were approved. Of this number,
the total number of Bank financed sub-projects is 283: 188 infrastructure sub-projects (135 rural roads, 39
water supply systems, 7 bridges, 5 community centers, 2 other works) 39 community based social services
(16 day care centers, 11 shelters, 4 information and counseling centers, 5 home care for elderly, 3 health
promotion centers), and 56 income generating sub-projects (46 processing raw materials, 6 handicrafts, 3
solar tents, 1 community bakery). The remaining grants which were approved at later times are financed
under the CEB loan.
(ii) Training and technical assistance aimed at community level capacity building for (a) participatory
identification and prioritization of needs; (b) design, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects; (c) use
cost-effective standards and appropriate technologies for small infrastructure. The project was highly
successful in facilitating community organization and development through RSDF facilitators, appraisers,
supervisors with capacity to work at grass roots level, train and advise members of Project Management
Committees (PMCs). Under SDF I, facilitators trained in community development were sent to the poorest
regions of the country to work on community organization; this was essential for the poorest, very passive
communities and contributed to the high number of applications for grants, the involvement of the
community members in identifying their needs, prioritizing them, and finally preparing and implementing
sub-projects. Community PMCs (each consisting in a president, a secretary and a treasurer) were trained
under SDF I on accounting, procurement procedures, implementation procedures and project management,
before starting the sub-project implementation. Training on managing on-going projects was also delivered,
contractors and site technicians also participating. By the end of SDF I, people from communities that have
successfully implemented sub-projects have actually become the best promoters and facilitators for this
Program, given their learning-by-doing experience and, therefore, they will be directly involved in the
promotion activities under SDF II. The communities which have applied for grants also benefited from the
interaction with appraisers skilled in formative appraisal and once the sub-project was approved, from the
- 6-



cDoperation with the RSDF supervisors who had the responsibility of not only checking on the correct
application of the RSDF procedures, but also of advising communities all through implementation. The
RSDF advisory support was essential towards the use of cost-effective standards and appropriate
technologies for small rural infrastructure in a country like Romania where there is no tradition in this
respect.
2. RSDF Institutional Support (US$ 1.6 million). This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. It was
aimed at: (i) strengthening the institutional capacity of the RSDF through training and technical assistance;
and (ii) providing support to the overall management of the RSDF Program. The daily activities of the
FSDF have been carried out by a small team of high quality professionals (25 full time staff) reporting to
an executive director who manages the resources of the RSDF. The RSDF is also using consultants skilled
in facilitation, appraisal and supervision activities. The RSDF governance is assured by a nine-member
Steering Committee (SC) nominated by the Prime Minister and the President of Romania, and headed by a
President. As envisaged in the PAD, the support to the RSDF institution resulted in an improved
operational capacity of RSDF, improved internal procedures, as well as a well functioning MIS, promotion
and public relations activities in place. However, given its specifics and innovative approach, the beginning
of project implementation was more difficult for the RSDF with the subsequent departures of the first two
executive directors. Also, in a traditionally bureaucratic environment of the country, this new
public-interest institution was supposed to work differently: to use simplified regulations, avoiding
cver-control tendencies and cumbersome procedures at executive levels; this has been an ongoing effort and
it was often noted that there is need for more flexibility in procedures at RSDF level. Also, due to the lack
of experience with this type of activity, the RSDF SC got involved into micro-management, especially at
the beginning of the project, when this was a good contribution for a successful start-up. However, this
tendency seems to reoccur. Therefore, a better clarification of the roles and responsibilities is needed both
at the RSDF executive level and at the SC level during SDF II. The SC was constantly advised to focus on
thle RSDF broad strategies and policies leaving the responsibility of daily management to the executive
level.
An important achievement during SDF I was to establish a well functioning MIS; following subsequent
adjustments, relevant monitoring indicators are appropriately reflected and the system is providing
inportant data for policy making decisions. However, the MIS needs to evolve under SDF II, so as to
include a set of qualitative indicators assessing the quality of works, sustainability and social capital,
beside the existing input process and quantitative indicators.
T he experience gained by RSDF under the program initiation phase has been an asset for the preparation of
SDF II and further developments are expected towards RSDF decentralization through 2-3 regional units
ensuring even more responsiveness at local level.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Since a calculation of the Net Present Value/Economic rate of return was not applicable to SDF I, an
analysis of the project was made using a cost-effectiveness criterion which verified that the project
represented the least-cost solution to attain the envisaged benefits.
The RSDF sub-projects cut across a range of sectors in which well established national standards existed.
Experience with SDF I indicated that in the case of such sub-projects as infrastructure, those standards are
appropriate for large-scale public works that use centrally designed technologies. Hence, RSDF has been
promoting more appropriate technologies, that are basic and durable, match the skills available to
teneficiaries, are within the communities' means to establish, operate and maintain works. Under RSDF
sub-projects, contractors have adopted least cost solutions.
-7 -



Basic cost effectiveness analysis has been carried out during the appraisal of individual sub-projects
according to procedures described in the RSDF Operational Manual.
For SDF I, an ex-post cost analysis of small rural infrastructure sub-projects was carried out on a case
studies basis (Progress under the SmaU Rural Infrastructure Component and Recommendations, Sinke,
2001). Based on project by project data coUection and analysis, it was confirmed that RSDF's smal rural
infrastructure sub-projects are executed for less than two third (62.2%) of the cost of comparable
non-RSDF works. The largest variance with non-RSDF financed execution if found in the case of
community centers rehabilitation performed at 34% of the cost of non-RSDF financed projects.
Project design for RSDF small rural infrastructure sub-projects was contracted out at slightly over half
(52.3%) of the design cost of comparable non-RSDF financed projects. The largest variances with
non-RSDF financed projects are found with road projects at 50.4%. Also, in the area of site supervision,
RSDF financed sub-projects are also substantialy cheaper (57.3%) than comparable non-RSDF projects.
Since the projects have been found to reflect comrnunity-priorities and since communities agreed to finance
a significant part of the costs, the benefits of the selected investments must be higher than alternative
possibilities in the community - i.e., the benefits of this intervention is relatively higher than others. Other
projects in Romania have calculated rates of return and found that similar activities had a positive net
present value. Since the RSDF projects have lower costs than non-RSDF financed activities and at least
the same level of benefits (thanks to the demand-responsive nature), the cost-benefit ratio must be high,
even though it was not formnally calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This impact is rated Substantial - success has been substantial, so far. The project supported the
development of the RSDF over a relatively short period of time turning it into an efficient, effective
institution. RSDF managed to demonstrate that its innovative approach is a very useful tool to address
poverty issues at community level. Through a "learning-by-doing" mechanism, communities could: (i)
satisfy specific needs; (ii) build their capacity to identify and prioritize demands and mobilize and manage
resources to design, implement, operate and maintain their own projects; (iii) foster organization and
participation capacity. The program successfully supported CDD in Romania (CDD pilot country) and
demonstrated its influence on other programs such as the Bank financed Rural Development Project which
is envisaging using the RSDF approach and the institution as such, to channel resources directly to
beneficiaries through one of its components. The facilitators trained under SDF I have set up an
Association for Community Development already having independent initiatives in the same field. RSDF is
recognized at Government level as an experienced promoter of demand driven projects and is provided as a
successful initiative through which the "rules of the game" were changed towards a new culture at grass
roots. As an institution, it is represented in the "Commission for poverty alleviation and promotion of social
inclusion" set up under the Prime-minister's aegis. Given its experience, the RSDF is in a position to
provide the Government with a very efficient tool for addressing poverty issues at community level beyond
the life of the Program (after SDF II). Several perspectives for the future of RSDF are envisaged in the
long run (see para. 6.2).
-8-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementadon and Outcome
5..! Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The project implementation was highly satisfactory. Major factors which could affect implementation were
takcen into account at project preparation stage and the measures taken for risk mitigation proved effective.
TLree factors can be mentioned as having influenced implementation outside of the control of the
gavernment or the implementing agency, but not in a manner as to affect the overall project perfornance.
(i) The performance of co-financiers. The project implementation had to cope with a major delay in the
parallel financing from the Council of Europe Development Bank, which was actually provided one year
and a half later than expected. This caused delays in RSDF's activities, especially related to the appraisal
of submitted grant requests during the year 2000. The highest risk with these delays was the potential
irVpact on the high expectations at community level. Timely measures were taken to avoid negative effects:
since the funds from CEB were not co-financing, but parallel financing, the project implementation was
not disrupted and the activities continued based on the available resources from the Bank loan. At present
CEB funding is available and has been committed.
Two other factors could be also considered although they did not have a negative impact.
(ii) The risk of keeping sub-project accounts In unsafe banks. There was one case of bankruptcy in year
20100 at a commercial bank (The International Religions Bank) where five communities' PMCs had
deposited their sub-projects accounts; this definitely caused delays in the implementation of these
sub-projects. Four PMCs managed to recover their deposits, while one such community has not yet
recovered the loss (about US$ 3,000 representing the first tranche released by RSDF) and could not finish
the sub-project. The Ministry of Public Finance temporarily covered the amount (until final recovery of the
lois) and RSDF included the community sub-project in its 2002 pipeline; the Bank considered the amount
as non-eligible expenditure, according to its disbursement procedures. In the future, all partners concemed
should agree on acceptable solutions for such situations.
(iii) The weather conditions. In some instances unfavorable weather conditions occasionally impeded on
the timely implementation of small rural infrastructure sub-projects. However, RSDF procedures are
flexible enough in order to accommodate with such situations by extending deadlines.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Both the former government and the present one have been highly committed to this project; this was
constantly demonstrated by the timely provision of counterpart funds and was reinforced by the decision to
continue the Program with an increased second loan for SDF II from US$10.0 million to US$20.0 million.
Nonetheless, mention should be made of the following:
(i) The risk of political interference. This was occasionally felt especially at local levels when the local
public administration authorities were tempted to take advantage of the opportunities provided by this
project, disregarding its community approach, its way of directly involving the beneficiaries in the
identification of their own needs, the design and implementation of sub-projects. The RSDF policy towards
minimizing this risk was the adoption of transparent eligibility criteria and broad promotion campaigns
w hich increased both the communities' and the LAs' understanding of the Program's participatory and
partnership approach. This policy proved quite efficient also in one isolated case in which communities
faced the risk of being manipulated by an individual trying to make profit by "facilitating" communities'
-9-



access to the RSDF funds, taking over the identification of the beneficiaries' needs and the preparation and
submission of the sub-project proposal. This was immediately reported to the RSDF by the communities
themselves which had a clear idea that they were themselves expected to interact with the RSDF without
any intermediaries. During SDF II, RSDF will proceed to an increased dissemination process, given its
expected decentralization to 2-3 local units.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control:
(i) The RSDF reaction capacity. Achievements under SDF I are due to a large extent to the management
effectiveness, including a good financial management, monitoring and evaluation. Nonetheless, at times the
RSDF had to cope with situations due to too much flexibility in its procedures, some other times it had to
struggle against its own tendency of becoming too bureaucratic. The institution proved to have a good
reaction capacity being able to adjust continuously to these challenges. The RSDF will continue to build on
its experience and improve its internal functions, and also simplify procedures and requirements towards
beneficiaries (e.g. application forms). Lessons learned under SDF I in this respect are expected to be
applied under SDF II.
(ii) The RSDF monitoring system. Following subsequent adjustments, a good MIS was put in place under
SDF I. So far, the system has been providing quantitative indicators; under SDF II, the MIS is expected to
move towards additional qualitative indicators related to the quality of works, sustainability of sub-projects
and social capital.
(iit) The passiveness of poor communities. A major risk subject to the implementing agency control has
been the potential passiveness of the poorest communities and their capacity to submit sub-projects,
especially in the southern areas of the country (plain regions). Based on careful examination and analysis,
the RSDF adjusted the eligibihty criteria to minimize this risk; in general, the effort was channeled towards
ensuring that poorest communities were taken out of their passivity with the help of trained facilitators in
community development; such facilitators worked with the potential beneficiaries for increasing their
organizational capacity and for identifying informal leaders. However, it was often noted that more
facilitation activities would be needed not only at the beginning of the project cycle, but throughout the
entire process.
(iv) The recruitment and retention of highly qualified staff. This was an important risk for project
implementation foreseen from the time of project preparation and dealt with at negotiations. It was a
condition for the successful implementation of SDF I and it was definitely linked to ensuring market level
salaries. The Government agreed with appropriate salaries for the RSDF staff at the time of negotiations,
salary levels being decided by the SC; however, the staff has requested due periodical updates which were
not always agreed upon by the SC. Also there were few instances in which staff and/or consultants trained
by RSDF chose to work for other institutions; while this helps in facilitating institutional development more
broadly in Romania, it was a risk to project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of projects benefits is rated as likely due to the positive experience to date, however the
program life is too short to rate the sustainability as highly likely. Regarding the technical sustainability,
the evidence from the post-completion assessments under SDF I is positive in terms of the quality of
- 10 -



construction and the maintenance of infrastructure and services. Social aspects have been scoring high
under SDF L given the participation of communities in sub-project identification and implementation
including cash or in kind contributions (minimum 10 percent of the sub-project grant for small-scale
infrastructure sub-projects, 5 percent for community-based social services, 15 percent for the income
generating activities). Also, from a technical point of view, each sub-project proposal included an
operational and maintenance plan, covering financial and institutional arrangements such as a written
commitment of LAs to continue financing and service, and/or proof that a community based
operation/maintenance committee was established. The Beneficiary Assessment reported a great sense of
owynership and satisfaction with the project results, also confirmed during various field visits, which also
reinforce the high expectations for sustainability. Further ont, under APL II, a post-implementation study
will be conducted. In terms of the local organizational self help capacity, it was noted that communities
which have implemented RSDF sub-projects are working together differently, are already interested in
fiading additional resources (from RSDF or from other institutions) that would further help them improve
tbeir livelihood. In this respect, under SDF II, a new component on Knowledge Sharing and Partnership
Building is being set up; through it, a network of "graduating" villages will be further assisted.
Based on lessons learned under SDF I, the second phase of the APL will also include a special category of
sub-projects called "Follow-up Subprojects" which, among other purposes will award second grants for
irnovative sub-projects to communities having successfully implemented sub-projects under SDF I (such as
waste collection and disposal activities).
The sustainability of the RSDF approach is likely due to: (i) increased demand on the RSDF to implement
olther programs (by govemment and donors); (ii) its central role in the "Commission for poverty alleviation
and promotion of social inclusion"; and (iii) the high degree of political support evidenced by unanimous
endorsement of the RSDF law and the request for doubling of the loan amount under SDF n1. During SDF
n, the Government will decide on the future role for RSDF. Even if the institution will be changed, the
alpproach has already caught on, so the sustainability is likely. Other aspects that indicate likely
sustainability is the creation of the Romanian Association for Community Development and the high
demand for consultants (appraisers etc.) trained by RSDF in CDD approaches.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Tmnsition arrangements are not in view yet; at present, the SDF II project has just become effective.
However, at SDF II mid-term review (April 2004) several options will be discussed:
(i)    enhancing RSDF's role as a national institution financing projects initiated at grass roots level
by community based institutions; RSDF could use both public fimds and resources from
other international agencies (EU, private investmnent funds, WB);
(ii)  transforming the RSDF into a center of excellence in CDD; the RSDF staff could be
engaged in facilitation, appraisal, supervision of activities for new projects, monitoring and
evaluation, poverty alleviation measures;
(iii) link the RSDF up closer with the decentralization program, possibly merging it with other
agencies financing local activities; in this respect the fist step will be made under SDF II
when the RSDF is expected to decentralize its activities to 2-3 branches.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Lank
7 I Lending:
Bank performrance is rated highly satisfactory for the following reasons:



The project responded to the national concerns related to poverty increase and the need of finding more
efficient ways aiming at poverty alleviation. The project was fully consistent with the two major objectives
of the CAS dated June 30, 1997: (i) poverty alleviation and (ii) decentralization.
Given the limited experience in the Region with the CDD approach and philosophy at the time of SDF I
preparation (started in 1997), the Bank provided the Government with its worldwide experience in this
area. The lessons derived from the implementation of social funds in Latin America, Africa and Central
Asia have been very important for SDF I preparation. A study tour to the social funds in Chile and
Argentina played a key role in this respect. The Government benefited from a Bank executed PHRD grant
for project preparation and appointed representatives of its main ministries as members of an enlarged
Working Group which also included a team of highly qualified local consultants. By project appraisal, the
Law establishing the RSDF had been passed by the Parliament
The Bank executed PHRD grant was essential for the project preparation, financing an important set of
activities. The project identification and design were based on a preliminary needs assessment undertaken
through field visits by the preparation team and local consultants, as well as based on the reports prepared
by local consultants. A lot of consultations at local level took place resulting in an accurate understanding
of the needs of the potential beneficiaries, their characteristics and the potential benefits. Also, the
preparation team involved local teams of sociologists which embarked on in-depth social studies of poor
rural communities, disadvantaged groups and potential implementing agencies (CBOs, NGOs). The
project design carefully reflected all the findings. An important asset for the project design was the
experience of highly qualified Bank staff with extensive experience in social funds development. This was
essential in all respects: technical, financial, economic, institutional; international standards of transparency
and accountability in the operation of the RSDF were ensured, as well as high standards of monitoring and
impact evaluation. The Bank team also ensured full consistency with the Bank's environment policies
captured in relevant application, appraisal and supervision forms and guidelines. Critical risks have been
accurately identified and the proposed measures for their minimization proved effective. Key Bank staff
including specialist from outside the Region, continued their involvement all through project
implementation.
The Borrower's capacity for implementation was accurately evaluated by the Bank team and its readiness
was confirmed by the availability of the RSDF Law, technical guidelines and standards, a draft Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operational Manual. Further on, during implementation the project was
evaluated as having the highest disbursement pace in the portfolio for Romania (Joint Portfolio Review,
2001); this rating endorsed the high efficiency of the SDF I mechanism channeling resources directly to
beneficiaries through an independent public interest institution.
The Bank considered the APL in two phases, a lending instrument chosen for the first time by the
Romanian Government at the time, as appropriate, given the specifics of the program, its innovative
aspects and the need for the Ministry of Finance officials to be fully convinced of the efficiency of such a
revolutionary mechanism that puts poor communities in charge of implementing projects using public funds
and the need to gain experience going through a first phase of program initiation before scaling up with the
second phase. The appropriateness of the chosen instrument was fully confirmed since both the
Government and the Bank had the opportunity to make a joint evaluation of the first phase, take advantage
of the flexibility of the APL instrument and draw on important lessons learned before embarking on the
second phase with a project incorporating and building on valuable experience.
The Bank also played an important catalytic role in mobilizing funds for the RSDF from other donors (e.g.
USAID and DFID) and facilitating access to capacity building activities from the World Bank Institute
- 12 -



CO.TBI).
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory for the following reasons:
Regular supervision missions carried out (twice a year) were extremely useful opportunities for Bank -
Borrower/implementing agency consultations on various implementation aspects. Such consultations were
based to a large extent on the findings of field visits, when the team interacted directly with the
beneficiaries in communities, the facilitators, supervisors, contractors as.o. Since the project was managed
fiom the field, the Bank assumed an increased advisory role, often "mentoring" the RSDF staff and the SC
members. The Bank team included highly qualified staff, with extensive experience in social funds and
Bank operations. A lot of attention was paid to the specifics of this project, such as community contracting,
by involving specialized staff.
The team paid due attention to the financial and legal covenants (such as the timely submission of annual
aLdit reports, the semi-annual implementation progress reports, a.s.o.) and accurately reflected the findings
of its supervision missions in PSRs, agreed with the Borrower on action plans and followed-up closely on
their accomplishment No Bank deviations from the Bank policies and procedures were noted. The success
of SDF I implementation was due to a large extent to the fact that the project was managed from the field,
thus ensuring close coordination and immediate responsiveness from the Bank side. In critical situations,
such as the lack of timely parallel financing from the CEB, the Bank team also involved its rnangers who
provided full support, facilitated the dialogue and ensured the situation was finally resolved.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
(Given the above ratings, the overall Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. Supervision missions
included the required expertise, the project was managed from the field and this ensured closer cooperation
wvith the Borrower. The project became an example in the region especially for its direct contracting
approach and was visited by representatives of implementing agencies form Kosovo, Macedonia, Ukraine,
Moldova and Malawi. Bank-wide the project's innovative focus on social capital and CDD in transition
countries has meant that project staff have been asked to contribute to other project's design within the
IRegion.
Borrower
i'.4 Preparation:
T'he Borrower's performance is rated highly satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time of
preparation between the Government and the Bank; major stakeholders participated in this process. At the
time, the Prime Minister indicated his personal interest in the preparation of a Social Development Fund
znd assigned one of his councilors to be directly involved in this process. Also, the Government appointed
representatives of main ministries as members of an enlarged Working Group that prepared a draft law for
establishing the RSDF institution in such a form that actually convinced a quite divided Parliament at that
time to pass it with no dissenting votes. At the same time, the Borrower's performance for project
preparation was substantially supported by the PHRD garat which financed all necessary activities.
;'.5 Governmentimplementationperformance:
The Govemment's implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory especially since this was the
first time a project was channeling resources directly to beneficiaries without any ministry involvement, but
through an independent public-interest institution. Key staff was appointed in due time and counterpart
iunds were ensured. Moreover, on various occasions related to other projects preparation, Government
representatives pointed to the experience under SDF I as a successful example both in terms of its
- 13 -



innovative approach, financial management and disbursement rates.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated highly satisfactory. Despite initial turn-over at management
level, it has succeeded to cover a tremendous work with a limited group of 25 staff- it has also involved
consultants (altogether 102 facilitators, appraisers and supervisors all through implementation) at various
stages of the project cycle.
RSDF has definitely demonstrated its capacity to process the available resources and finance a large
number of community based projects. The RSDF has constantly accumulated experience which is also
expected to be used under SDF H.
Progress reports have been timely submitted; a good Financial Management and Information system
(ES) is in place including accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and proper internal
control systems. Project fund management was found to be in accordance with the loan agreement and the
annual audit reports gave a clean opinion on the Project Financial Statements.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfonnance:
Based on the above ratings, the overall Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Since SDF I was the first phase of the APL, a lot of importance was paid to the lessons learned. Therefore,
the second phase of the APL, SDF II, will benefit from important lessons learned under SDF I, grouped as
follows:
(i) Positive experiences related to:
*      Community empowerment: it was demonstrated that poor communities can go beyond needs
identification and participation in problem solving; members of the community who learned
how to get out of passivity and participate in community projects are more engaged in
civic activities; this proves a high potential for civic engagement;
*      Bottom-up approach: there is increasing evidence that the RSDF approach is beneficial for
sensitizing authorities to CDD; SDF II will increase its impact on state institutions for
advancing CDD;
*      Best facilitators: people from graduating villages have turned out to be the best RSDF
facilitators and promoters.
(ii) Further needs and things to be watched over:
*      Networking: communities that receive RSDF grants want to communicate, share experience
and organize themselves in a network that will promote CDD in Romania;
*      Data analysis: there is a wealth of poverty-related data at RSDF level which needs to be
analyzed and included in studies; findings of such analyses need to be disseminated to
interested institutions and decision makers;
*      Over-controlling: the RSDF has to make sure its control procedures do not turn into
bureaucracy.
Such lessons learned were also endorsed by the findings and recommendations of a series of studies
undertaken both for monitoring and evaluating SDF I as well as for preparing SDF II:
- 14 -



The Villages of Romania: Development, Poverty and Social Capital - Updating targetingfor RSDF
(Sandu, 2000) concluded that the RSDF geographical targeting mechanisms need to be improved so as to
increase access for very poor villages from the plain areas; consequently at present the RSDF is using
revised poverty-related eligibility criteria by which a rural community is eligible for RSDF
funding if it meets at least three out of eight criteria.
l'he RSDF Beneficiary Assessment (Metro Media Transilvania, 2000) recommended that local
authorities need to be sensitized on the RSDF values and approach to CDD given the high level of
satisfaction among sub-projects beneficiaries (more than 900/6). Following this recommendation, SDF [l
will include a new component dedicated to knowledge sharing and partnership building activities; local
authorities will be involved in partnership building activities including training on procurement,
participation, accountability, maintenance, sustainability.
S'tudy on Reaching Poor Communities and New Target Groups (Dancu 2000) pointed out that RSDF has
to) address the needs of disadvantaged groups which have not been covered, so far (youth at risk); also it
wtas recommended to make application forms and guides more accessible to ethnic minorities. Under SDF
Ii, the menu of social services sub-project types is expanded to include activities addressed to youth at risk.
Also, under SDF II the number of Roma and Hungarian speaking appraisers, supervisors and facilitators
will be increased and the application forms are being translated in Hungarian.
RSDF Evaluation and Monitoring Report (2000) pointed out that RSDF needs to focus more on
nmonitoring and evaluating activities, analysis and dissemination of its findings. Under SDF 1[, a separate
sLb-component will consolidate monitoring and evaluation activities.
5DFI Benchmarks Evaluation: External Review Mission Report (Weissman, Barrientos, 2000) referred
ijter alia to the fact that RSDF recognized the potential value of decentralizing some of its tasks without
compromising sub-project quality and administrative control. Under SDF II, it is envisaged that RSDF will
have 2-3 local units to coordinate activities in the sub-project cycle.
P:rogress under the Small Rural Infrastruct re Component and Recommendation (Sinke, 2001) showed
tlat RSDF should investigate the possibility to support already completed sub-projects and also reward
saccessful communities by awarding a second grant. Also, more focus is needed on qualitative monitoring
indicators. Under SDF II, a new sub-component is included for follow-up activities aiming at fixing
problems occurring after sub-project completion and also awarding second grants to successful
communities for specific sub-projects (e.g. waste collection and disposal facilities). SDF II will use a
n,fined set of qualitative monitoring indicators.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for Extemal Public Finance has reviewed the ICR and
sent its comments to the Bank in a letter dated May 23, 2002. The ministry representatives expressed high
appreciation regarding the ICR and the Bank team's work, especially the dedication and support for the
project. It is also mentioned that the positive results of the project reflect the good cooperation and common
efforts made by all parties involved: the World Bank, the Ministry of Public Finance, the Romanian Social
Development Fund and the rural communities. Suggestions made were reflected in the ICR.
The Romanian Social Development Fund, the implementing agency, has also reviewed the ICR and
- 15 -



submitted the Borrower's evaluation report, attached to this ICR (Annex 9).
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of:
Ana Maria Sandi, Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Mariana Doina Moarcas, Operations Analyst, ECSHD (main author)
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant, ECSHD
Raluca Marina Banioti, Team Assistant, ECCRO
The ICR was reviewed by:
Steen Lau Jorgensen, Director, SDV
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
I--
Level of satisfaction among the project  75%                                90%
beneficiaries
Number of new community-based         160 (folbowing Implemented sub-projects)  244 (fblowIng Implemented sub-projects),
organizations (CBOs) created (under WB                                      about 1,600 (at application stage)
financed sub-projects).
Output Indicators:
Number of small Infrastructure works  150                                   188
oeratonal in poor rural communites (under
WB financed sub-projects).
Number of community based scdal servces 42                                  39
ciated (under WB financed sub-projects).
Number of Income generating activMies  42                                   56
cmated in poor communiies (under WB
Ifinanced sub-projects).
Number of partnerships establshad between 100                               about 360
loal authorities, CBOs and NGOs (under
WB financed sub-projects).
Community contulbutiorV allcated amount  small rural infrastructure: 10%    small rural Infrastructure: 15.62%
(9%) (under WB financed sub-projects).  Income generating acdvites: 15%     Income generaUng activtes: 22.96%
Number of direct potential beneficiaries per  NA                            small rural Inftructure: 94,191
type of sub-project (under WB financed                                      income generating activies: 766
sub-projects); the number of Indirect                                       community based social services: 16,002
be nefcdaries Is estimated flve-sbc times
hig;her
Unit cost per beneficlary per sub-project type NA                           small rural infrastructure: US$135.00
(small rural Infrastnjcture and sodal                                       community based socil services: US$68.00
sermices) (under WB financed sub-projects).
Cost per job created by Income generating  NA                               approx. US$3,000
activities (under WB financed sub-projects).
Cost per direct beneficiary by Income  NA                                   approx. US$1,600
generaing actitles (under WB financed
sub-projects)..
Tcital number of direct beneficiaries (under  NA                            110,959
WB financed sub-projects).
End of project
Note: Given the delay in the availability offunds from    CEB parallelfinancing by more than a year and a
hcvlf a joint decision was made (Bank Ministry of Finance) to de-link the two loans for evaluation
p&lrposes and, therefore, refer to perfor ance indicators reduced to a half so as to correctly assess the
project outputs based on the available resources excluding the CEB loan.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I-..~~                             ________________
I. RSDF Sub-Projects                                25.40           17.11          67.36
II. RSDF Institutional Support                        1.60           0.47          29.37
Total Baseline Cost                                  27.00          17.58
Total Project Costs             27.00           17.58
Total Financing Required              27.00          17.58
Note: Out of the total project costs estimated at US$27.00 million, the amount of US$10.00 million
was to be covered from the parallel financing under the loan from the Council of Europe
Development Bank (CEB). This loan was available one year and a half later than expected
and substantial funds are still to be disbursed.
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1, Subproject Development Grants (IBRD financed)
Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants           9.7 b/                      9.7
(7.5)                       (7.5)
b Community Based Social Services Grants              0.9 c/     -         -      0.9
(0.7)  _________ _______    (0.7)
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                  0.9 d/     -         -      0.9
(0.6)                       (0.6)
2. Subproject Development Grants (CEB financed)                       l
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants                     -       10.6 e/  10.6
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                        -        0.9 e/  0.9
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                                      1.0 el  1.0
3. Training
Taining Tn-country                                              0.2        -      0.2
_       (0.2)             (0.2)
Training Abroad                                                  0.1 g/           0.1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _(0 .1 )  (0 .1 )
4 Consultant and Specialized Services               ______._______.______.____.
Consultant Services (Bank-Financed)                     -        0.8 hl           0.8
(0.6)             (0.6)
Consultant Services (CEB Financed)                      -        -        0.5 v   0.5
5. Goods ..
Equipment                                             0.2 jl     -         -      0.2
(0.2)  ____                 (0.2)
[aterials and Supplies                                0.1 kl     -         -      0.1
___________________________________________         (0.1)     ,                 (0.1)
6. Non-Salary Operational Costs                       0.1  /     -       0.4 n2   0.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  (0.1)  (0.1)
7. RSDF Personnel Salaries                              -        -       0.7 n/   0.7
8. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                          -         -       0.1 o/   0.1
TOTAL                                                11.8      1.0      14.2    27.0
_                                                     (9.2)     (0.8)            (10.0)
Note:
(iQ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(ii) Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
19 -



Footnotes:
a/     N.B.F. - Non-Bank Financed items.
b/     Sub-projects (US$9.7 million total) consist of minor works contracts of less than US$100,000 per
contract (aggregate US$8 million) awarded on basis of at least 3 quotations from qualified contractors
in response to a written invitation; and goods contracts less than US$75,000 per contract procured
through National Shopping (estimated aggregate US$1.7 million).
c/     Sub-projects consist of services less than US$50,000 per contract (aggregate US$900,000) awarded
through a Competitive Selection process with a Fixed Budget. NGOs may participate on equal basis
as any consulting firm.
d/     Sub-projects (US$900,000 total) comprising goods contracts (aggregate US$800,000) procured through
National Shopping, and services (aggregate US$100,000 total) awarded through a competitive
selection process with a Fixed Budget.
e/     Sub-projects similar to those financed by the Bank supported through parallel financing by CEB.
f/     Local training (travel and per diem) paid directly to trainees according to agreed rates (aggregate
US$200,000).
g/     Training abroad (aggregate US$100,000) in training institutions selected according to suitability of
training program, following prior consultation with the Bank.
h/     Consultant services (US$800,000 total) comprising individual consultants selected on basis of
qualifications for assignment (aggregate US$210,000); consultant firms (aggregate US$500,000)
awarded through QCBS; and auditing services (US$90,000) contracted through Least Cost Selection
among qualified firms.
i/     CEB-financed consultant services (aggregate US$500,000).
i/     International shopping (aggregate US$200,0000) contracts below US$200,000.
k/     National Shopping (aggregate US$100,000) contracts below US$25,000.
1/     Non-salary expenditures (aggregate US$100,000) of sub-project consultants procured through National
Shopping.
m/     Non-salary expenditure items of RSDF procured according to normal Government procedures.
n/     Local personnel, including RSDF staff, recruited in accordance with normal Romanian procedures.
-20-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
1. Subproject Development Grants (IBRD financed)
. Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants          9.43                       9.43
(7.73)       _           . (7.73)
. Community Based Social Services Grants             0.61                       0.61
(0.50)      _              (0.50)
:. Income Generation Activity Grants                 1.02                       1.02
(0.84)                     (0.84)
!. Subproject Development Grants (CEB financed)
. Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants                            2.03     2.03
. Community Based Social Services Grants                               0.12     0.12
Income Generation Activity Grants                                    0.22     0.22
_ _   _    _   I _     I  _
3. Training
rraining In-country                                        1  0.05       -      0.05
.   j  (0.04)            (0.04)
rrmining Abroad                                       -       0.04              0.04
(0.04)           (0.04)
1. Consultant and Specialized Services             _
Consultant Services (Bank-Financed)                    -       0.4        -      0.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ (0.3)  _(0.3)
nonsultant Services (CEB Financed)                    -         -       0.13    0.13
5. Goods
,quipment                                            0.22       -               0.22
(0.18)                     (0.18)
Vaterials and Supplies                               0.02       -         -     0.02
(0.01)                     (0.01)
6. Non-Salary Operational Costs                       0.04      -        0.2     0.24
(0.04)                     (0.04)
1. RSDF Personnel Salaries                                      -        0.6     0.6
.1. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                         -        -        0.1     0.1
roTAL                                                11.34     0.49      3.4    15.23
(9.30)    (0.38)           (9.68)
Note: This table does not reflect the parallel contribution from grant recipients (approx. US$2.69
million) in kind or cash.
- 21 -



Proiect Financing by Component in USS million equivalent)
L SDF Sub-Projects      9.60     3.0       12.10     9.8      2.63      5.20    96.7   71.1   4.
11. RSDF Institudonal.4           12   0.40                    0.07             100.0   5.8
support
TOTAL                   10.00     4.90     12.10     9.68      2.70     5.20    96.8   55.1   43.0
Note: Amounts under the CoF column actually represent the parallel financing Loan from the
Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) and contributions from recipients.
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Basic cost effectiveness analysis was carried out during the appraisal of individual sub-projects according
to procedures described in the Operational Manual. Both the desk and field appraisal covered technical
feasibility, economic analysis, financial soundness, institutional assessment of executing agencies,
community and beneficiary participation, environmental impacts and sustainability.
The ex-ante appraisal was conducted for all RSDF sub-projects. The appraiser first determined if the
proposed sub-project effectively addressed the identified problem and whether the best alternative solution
was chosen. Afterwards, the following elements guided the economic analysis:
*      Cost-benefit analysis was conducted on sub-projects where benefits could be measured. Where
benefits could not be quantified, cost effectiveness and least-cost analysis was applied. RSDF developed
ranges for cost per beneficiary and cost per unit delivered (kilometer of road rehabilitated, meter of well or
pipes, attendee at a training program, grant recipient). At first, in SDF I these ranges were based on
existing experience in Romania. Over time, based on RSDF field experience these unit costs were refined,
setting new examples of lowering unit costs by using appropriate technologies and conmmunity
management of works.The economic analysis of all sub-projects has been underpinned by strict budget
controls on sub-project costs, based on the establishment of a unit cost data base of major sub-project
inputs. The same procedure will be applied under the second phase of the APL and the database will be
updated at least quarterly during SDF II to adjust for the unsiable price environment in Romania.
*      The economic analysis included sustainability and institutional arrangements for operations and
maintenance required after the investment, according to each applicable type of sub-project. Statements
regarding the financing of all recurrent costs generated by RSDF investments were required at the ex-ante
appraisal stage.
Economic soundness of RSDF sub-projects under SDF I were monitored through: (i) the Management
Information System, which is providing standard reports on the number of beneficiaries, costs per
beneficiary, cost per unit delivered, and other key performance indicators; and (ii) independent technical
audits and beneficiary assessments; this will continue to be applied under SDF II which would be
conducted on a sample of sub-projects ex-post, and among other indicators, would confirm the cost
effectiveness, benefit level, and/or economic impact depending on the type of sub-project, as well as
observed sustainability.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Since the projects have been found to reflect community-priorities and since communities agreed to finance
a significant part of the costs, the benefits of the selected investments must be higher than altemative
possibilities in the community - i.e., the benefits of this intervention is relatively higher than others. Other
projects in Romania have calculated rates of return and found that similar activities had a positive net
present value. Since the RSDF projects have lower costs than non-RSDF financed activities and at least
the same level of benefits (thanks to the demand-responsive nature) the cost-benefit ratio must be high,
even though it was not formally calculated. Benefits include improved access to schools, health care units
and markets, reduced likelihood of diseases caused by lack of water or polluted water, availability ofjobs,
improved business environment, availability of social services to disadvantaged groups etc. On the costs
side, the minimum level of beneficiaries' contribution (in kind or cash) are: 10 percent of the sub-project
grant for small rural infrastructure; 5 percent of the sub-project grant for community based social services;
15 percent of the sub-project grant for income generating activities. A case-based analysis of the SDF I
infrastructure sub-projects showed that the contribution percentage was exceeded in all cases, the average
- 23 -



community contribution standing at 11.7%. The second phase of the APL, SDF II, will enhance its
assessments of the benefits of both individual sub-projects and the overall program through its program of
monitoring and evaluation.
Main Assumptions: -
Sub-projects cut across a range of sectors in which RSDF is complying with Romanian standards.
However, such standards are appropriate, for example, for large scale public works using centrally
designed technologies. RSDF has been promoting more appropriate technologies that are basic and durable,
match the skills available to beneficiaries, and are within the communities' means to establish, operate and
maintain. Contractors under RSDF sub-projects were expected to adopt least cost solutions and this will
continue to be the approach under SDF II.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
For SDF I, an ex-post cost analvsis of small infrastructure sub-proiects was carried out on a case-studies
basis (Progress under the Small Rural Infiastructure Component and Recommendations, Sinke, 2001). The
project-by project data collection and analysis confirms that RSDF's small rural infrastructure sub-projects
are executed for less than two third (62.2%) of the cost of comparable non- RSDF works. The largest
variance with non- RSDF financed execution is found for building rehabilitation (community center) at
34% of non-RSDF costs.
Project design for RSDF small rural infrastructure sub-projects is contracted out at slightly over half
(52.3%) of the design cost of comparable non- RSDF finariced projects. The largest variances with
non-RSDF financed projects are found among road projects at 50.4%.
In the area of site supervision, RSDF financed sub-projects are also substantially cheaper (57.3%) than
comparable non- RSDF projects.
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stgfp     d-Cycle.                      " NO. of Person6 s and'Speial, ',       P,erformance Rating
i ''g.. 2 Eonomists,                          I FMS;4t.)  A i , iiient'tion  DeveIopmeint'
-Montb/ear     Co        unt Specialty                 z               t>L  Progress  Objective
Identificatioo/Preparatioo
Preparation                  1    Task Team Leader
p aSr. Implementation Specialist
Social Funds Specialist
1 Operations Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal /                       Task Team Leader
06/1998 l                         Social Funds Specialist
1    Operations Assistant
I    Sr. Implementation
Specialist
I    Sr. Financial Analyst
Negotiations                 1    Task Team Leader
11/1998                      1    Social Funds Specialist
I    Sr. Implementation Specialist
1    Operations Assistant
Supervision
Initial SPN                                                           S             S
3/1999
4/1999                        1   Task Team Leader                    S             S
I   Social Funds Specialist
1   FMS Specialist
I   Sr. Implementation Specialist
I   Operations Assistant
1   Community Contracting
Specialist
11/1999                      1    Task Team Leader                    S             S
I   Social Funds Specialist
I   FMS Specialist
I   Sr. Implementation Specialist
1   Operations Assistant
01/2000 - Update                                                      S             S
5/2000                        1   Task Team Leader                    S             S
1   Social Funds Specialist
1   FMS Specialist
I   Community Contracting
Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
11/2000                      1   Task Team Leader                     S             S
1   Social Funds Specialist
1   FMS     Specialist
1   Community Contracting
- 25 -



Specialist
1   Operations Analyst
6/2001                       1   Task Team Leader                  HS            HS
1   Social Funds Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
11/2001                      1   Task Team Leader                  S             HS
1   Social Funds Specialist
1   Operations Analyst
ICR
1/2002                      1    Task Team Leader                  HS            HS
I    Social Funds Specialist
I    Operations Analyst
1    Program Assistant
1    Team Assistant
(O) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest.Estimate,
. :                         . . . ., No. Staff. weeks  -US$C'0,0)-
Identification/Preparation                82                        203.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     17                        101.8
Supervision                               80                        180.5
ICR                                        8                          7.0
Total                                    187                        493.0
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                       O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Sector Policies .                    *H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Physical                             * H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
OL Institutional Development           O H  O SU O M   O N  0 NA
O Environmental                        * H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
L Gender                        OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Private sector development          0 H  0 SU 0 M 0 N    0 NA
El Public sector management            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
E Lending                                         *HS OS       Ou    0 HU
O Supervision                                     *HS OS       O    U  0 HU
O Overal                                         *OHS OS OU 0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS       O    U  0 HU
El Government implementation performance          O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       0 U   0 HU
E Overall                                         OHS OS       O    U  0 HU
-28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Studies and reports:
The Villages of Romania: Development, Poverty and Social Capital - Updating targetingfor RSDF
(Sandu, 2000)
The RSDF Beneficiary Assessment (Metro Media Transilvania, 2000)
Study on Reaching Poor Communities and New Target Groups (Dancu 2000)
RSDF Evaluation and Monitoring Report (2000)
SDF I Benchmarks Evaluation: External Review Mission Report (Weissman, Barrientos, 2000)
Progress under the Small Rural Infrastructure Component and Recommendation (Sinke, 2001)
RSDF semi-annual activity reports (1999, 2000, 2001)
Disparities in Project Financing (Institute for Research on Quality of Life, 2001)
Video tapes:
"Is It Really Possible? ", Documentary on Trust and Social Cohesion (Videomedia Foundation, 1999)
"The Other Road... Towards Changing Mentalities" (Romanian TV Channel 1 - "Village Life" Bolchis,
2000)
"Sahastru, A Community Group", (Film Partners Production, 2000)
"It Is In Our Power ", Documentary on the Romanian Social Development Fund (Film Partners
Production, 2000)
"Filipeni Community - A Milk Project", (Romanian TV Channel I - "Village Life" Bolchis, 2000)
"Income generation Activities in Serciu - Blajesti Community (Romanian TV Channel I - "Village Life"
Filip, 2000)
Scanned photos (samples below):
Community group getting information about RSDF during itinerant campaign
- 29 -



C.           '      t                t     ;  *4     r
40i~~~
Homeless watching TV in a shelter
.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
A&~= rc      '
IL
I A
Bridge in Costesti village - before rehabilitation works
El          ;        -   w   h   j-
,   -    !          'r  *"  w   '   q \   . .   'A
_                  6  8 isl_ ~~~~~~a.
V.4                  .   LJ
Bridge in Costesti village - after rehabilita non works
- 30 -



,XS                       ,     , ' ' tl :1  ,.
Road in Gura'Calit6z'village - befr rehabilitation works
i               , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I
l             1 -   j     '  J~~~~~~~~~   31* - S -  
.W>at~~~~~t
Road in Gura' Calitei village - beforer rehabilitation workss
-~~~~~ -.       --



r .r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Vl_;Ad
~~~~~       1~~~~3 
i o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3
m_.xI       e1s7
_,7,77\  ';       -;
>      '    __~~~~~
1,  - L  -t,11-j<F-a-C~~~-32 



.10~~~~~~~~
Comnimunity group leader 'dvocating with PIiderii 6f R4oan'ina the benefits of RSDF
.. ... ... ..        '' .  ,   '' -''"
Andrew Vorkink, WB Countby -DirectbrKfir Soi4u ('Cetr~il ~Europe. Ziad Alahdad, WB Country Manager
for Romanija, and Ion Iiiesi!u, President pfRoma#zia, congratiulating community group leader from
Sahastru village
RSDF website:
http://www.frds.ro
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Joint Benchmarks Evaluation Mission, December 2000
Given the APL concept, financing of the second phase (SDF II) had to be determined based on an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the first phase (SDF 1). Five key actions were proposed as triggers for
proceeding to the APL II, as outlined in the table bellow. The evaluation of the trigger indicators was
carried out by two independent consultants and a Joint Review Meeting of the GOR and the Bank team in
December 2000. Also, during regular supervision missions, a learning by doing exercise was encouraged,
allowing for adjustments and identification of risks; this approach is very consistent with the APL concept
and has enhanced the effectiveness of project implementation.
The assessment of the triggers performance also included recommendations and corrective actions which
provided the basis for some new elements which were introduced in the second ohase of the APL:
Triggers indicators        Assessment                              Recommendations and
Agreed Corrective
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ ____ __ _ __ ___ .A ctions
1. Well fimctioning RSDF   RSDF organization:                      * Decentralization
institution.               * Steering Committee: 9 members         measures are necessary in
* Executive Management: 2 persons       order to shorten the period
* FuU time staff: 22 persons            between sub-project
* Consultants: 24 facilitators; 75 appraisers submission and grants
and supervisors                         approval;
* Administrative
The RSDF is adequately staffed and has been  rocedures need to
able to launch the social fimd program,  counteract unnecessary
establish administrative and financial  bureaucratic requirements.
procedures and sub-project monitoring and
evaluation systems. The sub-project cycle
described in the social fund operational manual
has been tested and implemented. The progress
made and achievements of the RSDF compare
favorably with many other social funds and
exceed the initial accomplishments of most.
The success of RSDF lead also to a high
number of applications that exceed at present
its selection capacity.
-34 -



irriggers indicators       Assessment                            Recommendaffons and
Agreed Corrective
Acfons
2.. Poor rural communities and * No. ofreceived applications: 1,360  * Selection, training and
lisadvantaged groups manifest * No. of approved sub-projects: 290  coordination of additional
interest, organize and    * No. of newly created CBOs: 900 (at   facilitators, appraisers and
iarticipate in project activities. application stage)           supervisors is needed;
1,000 sub-projects applications                                  * RSDF decentralization
registered and 300 poor rural  Effective promotion and communication  under SDF I is expected to
communities assisted.     campaign were undertaken and facilitators  have a positive impact on
worked on community organization and   retaining its facilitators,
development. The presence of promoters and  appraisers and supervisors,
facilitators in poor rural communities is highly who are offered jobs by
appreciated. People from communities that  other institutions
have already implemented sub-projects are  replicating the SDF
ready to act as promoters of the project.  approach;
* Informal promotion and
facilitation will be
__________________________            encouraged under SDFII
3. Sub-projects are financed  * No. of Bank-financed grants: 250  * Maintenance handbooks
End implemented. Grants   Small rumal infrastructure: 155        willbe developed under
Lwarded to at least 200 Bank  1-19 rural roads                   SDF II.
financed projects of which  23 water supply systems
bout 60 should be completed. 6 bridges
5 community centers
2 other works
Social services: 39
15 day care centers
5 home care centers
5 information and counseling centers
3 health promotion
8 protective environment
2 week-time shelters
1- night shelter
Income generating activities: 56
46 processing raw materials
6 handicrafts
3 solar tents, greenhouses
1 community bakeries
* No. of completed sub-projects: 62
Communities have established Maintenance
committees to ensure sustainability of
suib-projects; new sources for income
.___________________ generation and employment have been created.
- 35 -



Triggers indicators       Assessment                             Recommendations and
Agreed Corrective
Actions
4. Agreed monitoring and  * A monitoring and evaluation system has  * Operational Manual
beneficiary assessment are  been developed and implemented. The  and procedures have been
carried out.              Management Information System (MIS) is  adjusted.
providing information of outcomes in terns of
quantitative and qualitative indicators.  * A network-based
monitoring system will be
* A Beneficiary Assessment was carried out  developed to reflect RSDF
by an independent organization in      upcoming decentralization.
October-November, 2000. The methodology
and quality of the assessment were sound and
responded well to the agreed terms of reference
and the requirements of the RSDF program.
The assessment confirmed a high level of
participation by beneficiaries and broad-based
support for the social fund program at the
__              ~~~~~villae level._
5. At least 60 perent of the  All Bank funds have been allocated (US$  * CEB funds are currently
APL I funds allocated to  8.00 million).                         being allocated and will
sub-projects are disbursed.  CEB funds were available with one year and ensure continuity in
a half delay.                        financing new sub-projects
until SDF 11 effectiveness.
- 36 -



Addidonal Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report
< _ Rq%
ROMANIAN SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
3 Regina Elisabeta Bd., 3rd Floor, Bucharest 3 Phone: 315 34 95, Phone/fax: 31S 34 IS
E-mail: offlce(ifrds.ro
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT - PHASE I
- 37 -



CONTENTS
A.    Cover Sheet
B. Assessment of the project objectives and design
L. Assessment of the project objectives
11. Assessment of the project design
1. Design of objectives
2. Design of subprojects menu
3. Design of Institutional and implementation arrangements
4. Design of the legal framework
C. Assessment of the project implementation
Results
Assistance to communities
D. Evaluation of performance by the Bank, cofinanciers and other partners
E. Comments on the Implementation Completion Report
- 38 -



A. Cover Sheet
LO: 4434-RO
Responsive Agency: RSDF
Program Implementation Period: 4 years
Effactiveness date: March 30, 1999
Closing date: December 31, 2001
Reporting program: SDF I
SiGinature: Liliana Vasilescu
Executive Director
Date: April 30, 2002
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink         Task Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi
Project ID: RO-PE-49200                     Program Team Leader: John Innes
Sector: Human Development                   Sector Director: Annette Dixon
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan  Program    Objective  Category:   Povery
Reduction
Program of Targeted Intervention: [x] Yes [] No
- 39 -



B. Assessment of the project objectives and design
I. Assessment of the project objectives
The development objectives of the Social Development Fund Program are to contribute to
poverty alleviation and to community-driven development through:
a) improving the livelihood of project beneficiaries/recipients in poor rural communities
and disadvantaged groups;
b) increasing the local organizational and self-help capacity (local level social capital).
Poverty, the main issue addressed by RSDF, started to extend quickly after 1989, reaching
worrying dimensions over the last years. Poverty is associated with individuals and
communities, affecting population health status, human development index and life
expectancy. Higher poverty rates and reduced opportunities to access scarce resources
are characteristic for rural areas.
The RSDF was conceived as an innovative tool to address poverty at community level by
taking people out of their passivity, by overcoming the lack of information, by challenging
mental frames at both individual and authorities level.
More than contributing to poverty alleviation, RSDF generates processes that lead to an
increasing self-esteem, trust and co-operation between society members, thus contributing
to a sustainable social development process.
Through the Program, from the effectiveness date, poor communities have been able to
articulate their priorities for assistance and to participate in the design and implementation
of demand-driven sub-projects. Through this learning-by-doing mechanism, communities
can satisfy their specific needs, as well as increase their ability to identify and prioritize their
demands, and mobilize and manage resources to design, implement, operate and maintain
their own sub-projects.
All the efforts made by communities for sub-projects' preparation and implementation
contributed to the creation of increasingly strong connections by beneficiaries (both among
themselves and wih the world outside - neighboring villages/ towns in the county), which
generated good prospects for a sustainable social development process in Romania.
METRO MEDIA TRANSILVANIA carried out a Beneficiary Assessment Study in October -
November 2000, focusing on the adequacy of the RSDF response to the needs of the
poor. The findings of the study showed a strong positive impact of the RSDF financed
sub-projects on the livelihood of the implementing communities, a good indication that the
RSDF objectives were achieved to a high extent.
Most of the interviewed beneficiaries in the RSDF financed communities stated that their
livelihood considerably improved following the implementation of their sub-project (in
comparison with interviewed people from non-financed communities). Beneficiaries in
financed communities also showed more trust in their informal representatives, local
authorities and people in general, which indicated an increase in the level of social capital
in the financed communities.
-40 -



After successfully implementing a sub-project, fighting bureaucracy and old mentalities,
they are willing to move on to solving the next priority of the community, no longer
regarding their problems as ones without solution. Once they have seen that it is in their
power to change things for the better, they are even considering long-term community
development strategies.
Another advantage resulting from sub-project implementation is the enhancement in the
level of knowledge of the implementing beneficiaries, which increases their potential
access to finding jobs, therefore contributing to the improvement of their livelihood.
Lessons leamed on project objectives
There is a demonstrated potential in poor communities for civic engagement. Community
empowerment can go beyond needs identification and participation in problem solving;
members of the community who leamed how to get out of passivity and participate in
community projects become more engaged in civic activities.
Under SDF I proposals were received for social services subprojects addressing needs of
youth at risk - groups of people who may not be already disadvantaged, but are at a high
risJk of falling into this category. This category of popuiation, although not specifically
targeted in SDF I, should be considered under SDF II.
There is increasing evidence that the RSDF approach has an important contribution to
raising authorities' awareness of community driven development. The risk of local
authorities taking advantage of the opportunities created through sub-project financing was
minimized by the. adoption of transparent eligibility criteria and broad promotion campaigns
that increased both communities' and local authorities' understanding of the RSDF
participatory and partnership approach. A further increased impact on state institutions
could be beneficial in encouraging such institutions to support communities in their
endeavor; this aspect should therefore be carefully considered under SDF II as well.
Regarding the beneficiary targeting mechanisms used to determine the poorest
communities, following the conclusions of the results of using the initial criteria, revised
poverty criteria are used in order to increase access for very poor villages to RSDF
financing.
II. Assessment of the project design
1. Design of obiectives
The RSDF approach of social development, characterized by the emphasis placed on
active participation and community involvement, proved to be a viable alternative to the
social assistance programs administered centrally, representing a good way of targeting
benefits to the most vulnerable groups of the population.
The most important characteristic was the chance for the communities to decide for
themselves what they consider to be a priority intervention, instead of having their priorities
-41 -



decided for them by central authorities; this opportunity proved to be a way to increase the
participation and responsibility of communities in solving their own problems.
The option of having a competition open to all counties led to receiving an important
number of applications from certain counties, while from others very few financing requests
were received, leading to low numbers of approved sub-projects in such counties.
A study was carried out by the Institute for Quality of Life Research in order to determine
the causes of counties disparities in what regards the applications received by RSDF. The
study presented among the main causes of disparities: structural factors (the regional
distribution of poor villages targeted by RSDF) and the extent of interest shown at county
level, as well as the power of example (a financed sub-project is the most convincing
example for neighboring communities).
The option of organizing selective rounds could be considered in order to achieve a
balanced distribution of the approved sub-projects, by limiting applications from certain
counties and encouraging communities in counties with low application rates to prepare
and submit sub-projects to RSDF.
In order to address the growing need of information sharing between communities (as
contacts between communities proved beneficial) and following the conclusion that the
connections with local authorHties are an important element in local capacity development,
a new component was separately specified for SDFII: knowledge sharing and partnership
building. While SDF I focused on the promotion of the Project concept, SDFII will focus
more on information, education and communication activities to underscore the principles
of community-driven development and clarify in more detail the RSDF procedures. The
RSDF will provide information about the Fund's activities, principles and rules to targeted
beneficiaries, raise awareness and support for social capital development, stimulate local
initiative, stimulate public interest for partnership building, participatory approaches and
community development.
There is a considerable amount of poverty-related data at the RSDF level that should be
disseminated to interested institutions and decision makers designing the national poverty
alleviation policy. A monitoring and evaluation unit will be established within RSDF under
SDF 11 to analyze and disseminate the existent data.
2. Design of subproiects menu
The variety of financing requests received showed the various needs of potential
beneficiaries. A few requests referred to subtypes of subprojects not included in the
existent menu (such as the introduction of electrical power supply networks and rural
tourism). However, the majority of them referred to the subtypes defined in the Project
design, which demonstrates that the types included in the menu of sub-projects address
actual problems of poor communities.
It should be mentioned that most of the financing requests submitted by communities
referred to small rural infrastructure sub-projects, which reflected in the number of
approved sub-projects in this category, as opposed to the relatively small numbers of
-42 -



sub-projects in income generating activities and community-based social services
categories.
A social services evaluation study was carried out, analyzing the way the RSDF financed
community-based social services sub-projects address disadvantaged groups' needs, as
well as the NGOs' capacity to implement and sustain these sub-projects. The study
concluded that the RSDF program addresses actual and important needs of the targeted
beneficiaries, at the same time making some recommendations that were carefully
considered by RSDF in view of the second phase of the Program (recommendations
referred to an extension of the currently targeted range of beneficiaries to other categories
of disadvantaged groups, as well as to actions that could significantly improve the
efficiency of NGOs' activity in terms of sustainability).
One of the constraints imposed by RSDF procedures was the provision referring to the
financing of just one subproject per year for each community. There were cases of
communities that after successfully implementing a small rural infrastructure subproject
intended to submit an income generating sub-project reflecting the community's next most
important priority. This issue should be revised for SDF 11, considering that communities
that successfully implemented a sub-project should be further supported in solving their
problems, especially that they have gained significant experience and knowledge while
implementing their first sub-project.
A new category of sub-projects will be financed under SDFII. Follow-up sub-projects will be
financed for fixing small problems that appear in sub-projects already financed by RSDF.
The Fund will also finance in the follow-up category innovative sub-projects for solving
various problems such as environmental ones. One of the Fund's main concerns during
SDFII will be to ensure that the environmental impact of small rural infrastructure
sub-projects does not lead to the degradation of the environment.
3. Desian of Institutional and implementation arrangements
The RSDF specific approach of poverty alleviation, which proved a very useful tool to
address poverty at community level, represented a good basis for excellent impact and
results at beneficiaries' level, therefore sustaining the institutional development process in
creating an institution capable of achieving its objectives with maximum efficiency.
Establishing of a central Social Development Fund permitted the refining of the rules and
procedures to reflect the good practice and experience gained during implementation.
However, it brought on various pressures on the RSDF permanent staff (significant
workload caused by tight deadlines), which is why in some situations the emphasis had to
be placed on quantity rather than quality.
In order to improve the RSDF capacity to promote, facilitate, support and monitor
sub-projects, steps were taken by RSDF towards decentralization of the Fund's activity,
under SDF I by the local facilitators, appraisers and supervisors in areas with many
sub-projects, and under SDF 11 by establishing a pilot branch, followed by another 1 or 2
branches provided the evaluation of the pilot branch activity is satisfactory.
-43 -



The quality control of sub-projects was ensured during all implementation stages by RSDF
supervisors and by the field internal control team and monitored through a specific set of
indicators. More emphasis will be placed under SDF II on quality control, as qualitative
indicators tumed out to be necessary for monitoring sub-project progress (regarding the
social capital, operation and maintenance and quality).
The organizational structure included a limited number of positions, considering that the
RSDF was conceived as a small unit, subsequently developing as a national agency
financing sub-projects all over the country. The RSDF development in terms of financed
sub-projects was gradual and to a certain extent it has reflected in the number of additional
staff hired. However, the increasing number of applications to be processed could not be
covered entirely, which is why the workload for the RSDF staff was extremely high. This
was the reason why, despite the availability of financial resources for training for RSDF
staff, the participation in such training programs was low.
The RSDF status of autonomous institution provided the necessary independence in
sub-project selection and financing, based on specific criteria and procedures. The RSDF
Steering Committee structure including representatives of ministries and of the civil society
ensured a wide range of ideas and professional areas.
4. Desian of the lenal framework
The legal framework of the RSDF activity is represented by the Law No.129/1998 on the
RSDF establishment, organization and operation, which established the RSDF as a public
interest-oriented, not for profit organization, acting under the authority of the Romanian
Government.
Practice showed the necessity for clarifying some of the stipulations in the RSDF
establishing Law 129/1998, as well as the necessity for defining some aspects remained
unsettled in the initial text of the Law.
Therefore, the Law No.129/1998 was amended through the Government Ordinance
No.120/2000. The main amendments refer to:
* The definition of the project maintenance committee (the maintenance of a project
needs to be foreseen by the community and prior to closing of a project the grant
beneficiaries have the obligation to elaborate a detailed maintenance plan -
therefore, the project maintenance committee had to be defined);
* The definition of the legal status of the community group after the closing of a
project, as well as the definition of the legal status of the outcomes resulted
from sub-projects implementation (which give the poor rural community groups the
possibility to continue to make use of their legal status obtained according to the
provisions of the Law, even after the financing from the RSDF is over). These are
very important aspects for sub-projects sustainability.
For income generating activities sub-projects, productive groups are to become legal
entities (such as cooperatives or associations, according to the Romanian laws in force)
before receiving the first trench. Ongoing sub-projects will follow the same procedure
- 44 -



before closing.
In consideration of the second phase of the Social Development Fund Project, further
amendments were made to the Law no.129/1998, by Law no.628/2001, with regards to the
prolongation of the RSDF functioning period, an increase in the Romanian Government's
contribution, as well as the possibility for RSDF to undertake various paid activities as an
institution providing consultancy in order to ensure self-sustainability.
-45 -



C. Assessment of the project Implementation
Giving the beneficiaries the responsibility of implementation (including procurement and
contracting), considering their lack of education and experience represented a risk that was
minimized by close monitoring and support by RSDF supervisors during subproject
implementation.
The goals over the initially established functioning period according to the Law
no.129/1998, regarding RSDF establishment, organization and operation (phases I and 11),
are to finance about 1000 sub-projects. The sub-projects will improve the infrastructure in
600 poor rural communities, develop 200 income generating activities in poor communities,
and improve the quality of services offered to disadvantaged groups scattered throughout
the country through 200 social services activities.
The initial estimate of the Program cost of US$41.0 million is intended to satisfy these
needs only partially. The Government requested IBRD financing to meet the projected gap
of US$20.0 million, between the estimated total Program cost and expected local financing.
Local contributions comprise US$7.8 million from the state budget (of which US$5.0 million
has so far been authorized), US$3.2 million from beneficiary contributions, the rest
representing US$10.0 million from the Council of Europe Development Bank (the first
installment from the CEB loan became available in March 2001 and was 20% disbursed
until the end of 2001).
Considering that the effectiveness date was March 30, 1999, the first phase of the Program
ended at December 31, 2001, with a grace period of 4 months (until April 30, 2002) for
payments due for activities finalized before December 31, 2001, while the second phase is
planned to be carried out between May 2002 and June 2006.
A new Loan Agreement was negotiated in October 2001 between the Romanian
Govemment (through the Ministry of Finance and the RSDF) and the World Bank. The
Romanian Govemment's request for increasing the loan amount for the second phase of
the Project (from the initially provisioned US$ 10 million to US$ 20 million), intended to
cover the continuous demand for financing sub-projects from poor rural communities and
non-govemmental organizations, was approved by the World Bank in December 2001, as
a result of the highly satisfactory rating of the project implementation during the first phase.
The Loan Agreement was signed in January 2002.
Reallocations in the Loan Agreement initial budget
After one year of implementation, the RSDF identified the necessity to reallocate funds
within the initial budget of the Loan Agreement, due to the continuous increase in the
number of submitted applications, and transferred the whole unallocated amount to other
destinations (mostly to subprojects).
Following the IBRD approval, this reallocation tumed into a Govemment Decision that
modified the Loan Agreement accordingly.
-46 -



Further reallocations were identified as necessary, due to the following:
* for "Consultants' services, training, audits" category, an amount of USD 300,000 was
not committed due to the insignificant number of training programs the RSDF staff
was able to participate in, as well as to an efficient management of related activities
(consulting services rendered by local consultants and RSDF permanent staff,
efficient planning);
* for "Operating costs" category, an amount of USD 150,000 was not committed due
to a sustained fund raising policy and an efficient allocation of funds.
Upon Bank's approval, the mentioned amounts were transferred to 'Subprojects' category,
enabling RSDF to fund and complete more subprojects than originally estimated prior to
the completion of APL 1.
The funds received under the first IBRD loan (US$ 10 million), as well as the US$ 10 million
loan from the Council of Europe Development Bank and the respective Romanian
Government counterpart funds were managed by RSDF during SDF I.
The considerable span time between sub-project submission and sub-project financing for
some of the applications submitted by poor rural communities and NGOs was due to the
delay in the effectiveness of the CEB loan. The same situation appeared with the pool of
applications submitted during APL I waiting to be appraised/ financed from APL II.
Results
In tlhe eleven rounds of calls for proposals carried out from the beginning of the RSDF
operation (March 1999), 2273 applications were received, out of which 1736 for small rural
infrastructure, 270 for income generating activities and 267 for community-based social
services.
A number of 1794 applications were eligible (1381 small rural infrastructure, 207 income
generating activities and 206 community-based social services) of which 1388 were desk
appraised (977 small rural infrastructure, 207 income generating activities and 204
cormmunity-based social services) and 753 field appraised (504 small rural infrastructure,
150 income generating activities and 99 community-based social services).
524 sub-projects were approved for all categories of sub-projects, as follows:
*319 IBRD financed (out of which 286 already financed from the first IBRD loan and under
impilementation; the other 33 to be financed from the second IBRD loan); for 22 + 6 of them,
the implementation began in the first phase of the RSDF Program and will continue in the
second phase;
.233 CEB financed.
3 113RD financed sub-projects were cancelled (two small rural infrastructure and one
community-based social services sub-projects).
-47 -



The distribution of the 524 totally approved sub-projects per categories is the following:
* 286 IBRD financed (190 small rural infrastructure, 56 income generating activities
and 40 community-based social services)
* 238 CEB financed (149 small rural infrastructure, 69 income generating activities
and 20 community-based social services)
Considering that a community-based social services and two small rural infrastructure
grants were cancelled (IBRD financed), the number of financed grants is 521, as follows
(distribution per sub-project type):
* 337 small rural infrastructure grants for: rural roads (223), water supply systems
(95), bridges (8), community centers (6) and others (5).
* 125 income generating activities grants for: processing of locally available raw
materials (98), bakeries (12), handicraft (8), greenhouses and solar tents (3), market
and storage-facilities rehabilitation (2) and others (2).
* 59 community-based social services grants for: day care centers (22), shelters (21),
increasing disadvantaged groups' access to social services (5), elderly sub-projects
(5), heafth promotion (4) and others (2).
Despite all the efforts made for the appraisal and approval of sub-projects, an important
part of the received applications could not be considered yet, making up a pool of
sub-projects for SDF II. Considering that the estimated number of sub-projects to be
financed from the US$ 20 million second IBRD loan is 540 and the pool of sub-projects
already waiting to be appraised/ financed is of 796 sub-projects, it can be foreseen that
only with these sub-projects the most part of the funds from the second IBRD loan could be
contracted (the assumption is based on the consideration that a part of the sub-projects in
the pool are already approved).
A lesson leamed in this respect was the necessity for a better management in what
regards communities' expectations, by establishing financing ceilings per rounds and more
realistic terms for the rounds of calls for proposals.
A continuous process of improving the working instruments regarding sub-projects (guides,
forms, regulations) was carried out in order to achieve the most appropriate results. The
small rural infrastructure application form was simplified in order to make it more accessible
for the communities interested in applying for RSDF financing (as the initial form was
considered rather difficult for the communities to understand and fill in).
A periodic process of selection for additional appraisers and supervisors was undertaken
due to the continuous increase in the number of submitted sub-projects, followed by their
participation in various training programs (including twining training - actual appraisal and
supervision along with experienced appraisers and supervisors). An average of 90
appraisers and supervisors were active for both IBRD and CEB financed sub-projects. The
selection will continue during SDF II, in consideration of their limited availability and in view
of the performance evaluation to be carried out for analyzing the results of their activity.
-48 -



It was noticed that there is not enough uniformity in what regards the appraisal marks,
which led to the conclusion that careful consideration of the risks that might appear in the
appraisal process would be recommended. Therefore, taking into account that the
appraisal is based on the analysis of the quality information and in order to ensure an
objective and comparative appraisal performed by different appraisers on different projects,
under SDF II the Fund will use control instruments. Appraisal control will be performed in
two phases, corresponding to the appraisal stages.
Desk appraisal control will be performed through compliance appraisal (a sample of
projects that did not meet the minimum necessary points or that were recommended to be
field assessed will be assessed on the field), while field appraisal control will be performed
through crosscutting appraisal (revisions performed by two appraisers who analyze on the
field relatively similar projects in terms of project type).
The appraisal report shall mention the risks involved and the necessary measures for
minimizing such risks.
Special attention was given to the economic efficiency of financed sub-projects, starting
with the desk appraisal phase, when technical feasibility, economic analysis and financial
soundness are checked along with aspects such as beneficiary participation,
environmental impact and sustainability.
The process of sub-project monitoring was carried out by the Operational Department, in
cooperation with the Financial-Accounting-Administrative Department and the Intemal Field
Control Sector, representing the most important part of the RSDF activity, considering the
necessary completion of the IBRD financed subprojects until the closing date.
Great emphasis was placed on monitoring the subprojects under implementation, speeding
up the disbursements to subprojects and completion of objectives. The weather conditions
interfered with the execution schedule for some of the financed subprojects, making the
completion impossible for 6 of the subprojects that have begun in 2001; therefore, these
subprojects will be completed with funds from the second IBRD loan (as agreed during the
negotiations).
An important lesson leamed was that the number of compulsory supervision visits should
be increased by establishing such visits not only for further trench release but for other
important phases in sub-project implementation as well. It was the decision of the RSDF
management for the communities to be assisted more intensively in different phases,
especially in the first half of the implementation process. Another lesson was that own
administration infrastructure works should be avoided (as they cause delays and poor
quality of works).
Minor delays in RSDF disbursements were also caused by receiving Romanian
Govemment contributions with slight disruptions, as well as following the receipt of
Romanian counterpart funds through the Ministry of Public Administration (as a result of
the amendment to the Law no.129/1998).
The Final Trench Payment Procedure was established and carried out in order for the final
trench payments to be more closely in line with the actual needs of the sub-projects
completion, so as to avoid overpayment and the necessity of returning money to RSDF.
-49 -



The latest estimate of the amount spent from the CEB loan is USD 2,500,000.
The amount spent from the IBRD loan for APL I is USD 9,682,622 (out of which USD
9,068,836 for sub-projects grants).
During one of the joint portfolio reviews carried out by the Bank in 2001, the RSDF Project
disbursement pace was evaluated as the highest in the portfolio for Romania.
In support of the RSDF sound institutional capacity and flexibility in answering the complex
situations in the field during implementation of community driven development, despite the
innovative approach, 255 IBRD financed sub-projects were completed out of the 286
totally financed by IBRD (considering the 3 cancelled grants and the 28 sub-projects for
which implementation began under APL I and will continue under APL II):
- 160 small rural infrastructure;
- 56 income generating activities;
- 39 community-based social services.
Assistance to communities
Technical assistance was provided at community level in order to achieve increased
community capacity of self-organizing, as well a strengthened capacity of local authorities
and non-govemmental organizations to deal with problems of the poor in a
demand-oriented participatory manner.
The facilitation services provided by both RSDF and volunteer (individual or organizations)
facilitators resufted in a number of 170 subprojects submitted by facilitated communities.
The number of 8 poor counties initially targeted was increased to 12.
The itinerant campaign carried out in 2000-2001 contributed to a wider and more targeted
availability of the information on RSDF principles and objectives and resulted in a
considerable number of applications received from communities visited by promoters.
Training programs were delivered for beneficiaries (project management committees and
NGOs) to initiate them in RSDF financing regulations, basic book-keeping and procurement
procedures, as well as project management, prior to grant agreement signing. Another
training program was especially designed to respond to the specific needs of beneficiaries
and dedicated to the CBOs managing ongoing sub-projects (these meetings gathered
regional CBOs, contracting firms, site supervisors for sharing experience and leaming from
the most advanced and successful communities).
The training programs contributed to a better understanding by beneficiaries of their
responsibilities and actions to be taken, by transferring the knowledge and abilities
necessary in subproject implementation and management.
In order to increase the RSDF capacity to deliver training for awarded PMCs (considering
that the number of approved sub-projects is continuously increasing, while the number of
RSDF personnel delivering the training remained unchanged), the Steering Committee
-50 -



approved the creation of a specific category of personnel - trainer for PMCs and hiring of
consultants to deliver PMC training, as well as using RSDF associated personnel.
The emphasis will be placed on RSDF associated personnel (facilitators, appraisers and
supervisors), who are already acquainted with RSDF rules and procedures.
A specialized consultant will deliver training for trainers (specific notions related to the
training process) with the support of the Department for Intemational Development of the
United Kingdom Govemment.
Institutional assistance
An important part of the institutional support that RSDF benefits from is the technical
assistance from the Department for Intemational Development of the United Kingdom
Government.
The support in technical assistance obtained by RSDF from DFID, meeting both its
organizational needs for an increased efficiency and its extemal needs for a more strategic
approach based on making more institutional linkss with the main actors involved in social
policy issues in Romania (i.e. stronger links with the Govemment Poverty Alleviation and
Social Development Strategies and better chances for increased sustainability in the
future) is in progress. Two seminars organized with the support of consultants from the
appointed company (IMC Consulting Ltd.) resulted in a set of social capital measurement
instruments (devised in order to quantify the social capital level in communities in various
phases during sub-project cycle - starting with the facilitation stage until some time after
sub-project completion) to be tested in the field and revised accordingly, as well as in a
decentralization strategy analyzing all aspects involved in establishing a pilot regional
branch of RSDF.
In order to iricrease the RSDF staff cohesion and efficiency, a seminar on team building
was organized with IMC support. The seminar focused on how the efficiency of the RSDF
activity could be increased by improving the communication between its team members,
establishing clear and realistic short, medium and long-term objectives, on the promotion of
the RSDF image both within and outside the organization, as well as on ways of continuing
the activity after the closing of the CEB and IBRD loans. The seminar created opportunities
for collective interaction, expressing of creativity, analytical and overall discussions in an
organized framework.
As recognition of the RSDF organizational philosophy and activity outcomes, the Rural
Development Project team designed its Project including a window for RSDF sub-projects.
An important part of the RSDF experience and operational approaches will thus be
replicated. Effectiveness of the program is expected to occur.
- 51 -



D. Evaluation of performance by the Bank, coflnanciers and other partners
The conclusions and recommendations of the periodic supervision missions carried out by
the World Bank, applied by the RSDF management contributed to a better organization of
the activity and the strengthening of its team.
The Bank's timely response to the assistance requests expressed by RSDF represented a
real support in the case of the reallocation of funds within the Loan Agreement initial
budget, as well as on any occasion when support was needed.
Enhanced support would be welcome from the Bank in what regards community
procurement; more specifically, Bank's clearance on the procurement guide for
communities, designed according to the Bank's procurement guidelines, would be useful
for confirmation of an exact understanding of the guidelines.
The amount of 313,032.42 that remained unspent from the IBRD loan was due to the fact
that the savings obtained by sub-projects could not be reallocated entirely (as the first
phase of the Project was carried out during a shorter period of time than initially
provisioned, there was not enough time between the moment the savings were determined
and the Project closing date).
Out of the five communities that had accounts opened with the Intemational Bank of
Religions (IBR), four managed to recover the amounts they had received from the RSDF
for sub-project implementation, following numerous appeals made to the authorities and
responsible institutions, both by the RSDF and the communities. One of them, however,
was able to recover only a small part of the first trench received from the RSDF (the
unrecovered amount is USD 3,532), despite all efforts made in this respect. Although the
case was discussed during several Bank supervision missions, the situation is considered
impossible to overcome at this point. It should be mentioned that the reason why the
community could only recover a part of the trench received from RSDF was that the local
IBR branch, a small division of the bank, did not have enough liquidities. The unrecovered
amount was considered non-eligible expenditure and was temporarily covered by the
Ministry of Public Finance (until final recovery of the loss), while the sub-project was
included in the pipeline. This issue raises the question of cases that are neither the fault of
the communities, nor of the RSDF or the Romanian Govemment and should be carefully
considered for SDF II.
Problems were faced while dealing with some sub-project contractors, who were
unsatisfied with the results of the selection processes organized by communities because
they were unable to understand that communities must comply with the World Bank
procedures and the Romanian legislation as well. Although contractors did not win their
cases, sub-project implementation was delayed. Such cases showed the necessity of
inviting contractors, local authorities and other parties involved in sub-project
implementation in the training sessions organized for project management committees.
In order to avoid confusion among beneficiaries, CEB agreed that the Operational Manual
and procedures under the IBRD loan be used for the CEB loan as well. Although the CEB
- 52 -



loan was received with a considerable delay, which caused interruptions in the financing
process, the implementation of this loan progresses without problems.
The implementation of the CEB loan by RSDF was assessed in a positive manner during
the technical missions carried out by CEB representatives for monitoring the progress of
the loan to RSDF. As a result of their assessment, CEB representatives expressed an
intention of the CEB possibly giving a second loan to RSDF.
The financial audits performed by independent firms concluded that the RSDF complied
with the covenants of the IBRD and CEB loan agreements (a number of recommendations
were made by auditors and considered by the RSDF management, among which inclusion
in the supervision report of a new section regarding the way the problems noticed upon the
previous visit were solved).
The Ministry of Public Finance has continuously supported the RSDF Program
implementation and has promptly answered all requests for assistance addressed by
RSDF.
-53 -



E. Comments on the Implementation Completion Report
The RSDF has the following comments on the Implementation Completion Report drawn
up by the Bank team:
* 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
(iii) The passiveness of poor communities - It should be mentioned that this factor is
subject to RSDF control only to a certain extent (there were cases of communities
where, despite all the efforts made by the facilitators, people were not able to overcome
old mentalities and get organized in order to solve their problems with RSDF support;
the communities' passivity surpassed the facilitators' efforts).
Another aspect that should be mentioned with reference to facilitation is the provision of
remedial and technical facilitation for SDF I.
* 6. Sustainability
6.1. Rationale for sustainability rating - iihird paragraph' the RSDF role in the
"Commission for poverty alleviation and promotion of social inclusion" is important
(taking into account the RSDF representation in this commission) rather than central,
considering that the RSDF does not participate in actual strategy elaboration, as this is
done through specialized consultants.
Regarding the sustainability of the RSDF approach, it should be mentioned that the
Association for Community Development is not the only organization that uses facilitation
for community driven development following the RSDF example.
* Additional Annex 8. Joint Benchmarks Evaluation Mission, December 2000 - the final
paragraph of the assessment of the first trigger indicator in the table presented (well
functioning RSDF institution) should read as follows:
The success of RSDF leads also to a high number of applications that exceed at present its
financing capacity.
The term "selection" was replaced with "financing", considering that the number of financed
sub-projects depended on the available funds and not on the RSDF selection capacity.
-54 -






Report No.:          2428
i Type:        R



