Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17379-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM
December 23, 1998
Human Development Sector Unit
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of December 16, 1998)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
US$1 =Lei 10,635
ILeu = US$.000105
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
BANK'S FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CBO               Community-Based Organization
CESDF              Council of Europe Social Development Fund
EU                European Union
EA                 Executing Agent
GSG                General Secretariat of the Government
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LA                 Local Authority
MIS                Management and Information System
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOLSP              Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MPWTP             Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning
NGO                Non Governmental Organization
PMC                Project Management Committee
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
RSDF               Romanian Social Development Fund
SA                 Special Account
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
USAID              United States Agency for Interniational Development
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn1
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director: Chris Lovelace
Program Team Leader: Johln Innles
Task Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi



Romania
Social Development Fund Project
CONTENTS
A. Program and Project Development Objective .................................................   2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................   2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................                                                                                      3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the Project ......................................    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................    4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices ...................    4
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................                                                                            5
1. Program  components ..................................................................                                                                     7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Program .....................                                                                        8
3. Benefits and target population .............................................................    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................    9
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                                                     10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................                                                                    10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies..  I 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design ............................. I 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................  12
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project .............................................   12
E. Summary Program and Project Analysis ......................................................   13
1. Economic ..................................................................                                                                              13
2. Financial ..................................................................                                                                             13
3. Technical ..................................................................                                                                             13
4. Institutional ..................................................................                                                                         14
5. Social ..................................................................   15
6. Environmental assessment ................................................ .................   16
7. Participatory approach ..................................................................                                                                16
F. Sustainability and Risks ..................................................................                                                                             16
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                                        16
2. Critical risks ..................................................................                                                                        17
3. Possible controversial aspects .............................................................   18



G. Main Loan Conditions                           ..................................................................   18
1. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness ........................................................                      18
3. Other Legal Covenants ..................................................................                       18
H. Readiness for Implementation ..................................................................                           18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................                          19
Annexes
Annex 1.   Program Design Summary .20
Annex 2.   Project Description .23
Annex 3.                  Estimated Program and Project Costs .29
Annex 4.   Economic Assessment .35
Annex 5.   Financial Summary .37
Annex 6.                 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .39
Annex 7.                 Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................   51
Annex 8.                 Documents in Project File              . ...................................................   52
Annex 9.                 Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania .53
Annex 9a                 Statement of IFC's Portfolio in Romania .54
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .55
Annex 11    Letter of Development Program .57
Annex 12.   Environmental Data Sheet .61
Annex 13.                Law  Establishing the RSDF ....................................................                     62
Annex 14                 Categories of Social Development Fund Sub-Projects ........................   71
Annex IS                 Organization of RSDF, Financial Management and Monitoring ............   77
Map:                     IBRD 29376



Romania
Social Development Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: December 23, 1998                             Task Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                 Program Team Leader: John Innes
Sector Director: Chris Lovelace
Project ID: RO-PE-49200  Sector: Human Development   Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan          Program of Targeted Intervention: [X] Yes  [] No
Program Financing Data                       Total      Loan Amount   Share of Bank
(US$ million)                                Cost                         Financing
First Phase-Program Initiation (1999-2001)   27.0           10.0             37%
Second Phase-Program Development (2001-2002)    14.0       10.0              71%
Total: Phase I & II                          41.0          20.0              49%
Project Financing Data           [X] Loan        [] Credit         [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$10.0 million
Proposed terms:                   []    Multi-currency       [x] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5           []    Standard Variable    []  Fixed           [x]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75% undisbursed loan balance, less any waiver.
Front-end-Fee: 1%
Financing plan for Program Phase 1 (US$ million):
Source                             Local            Foreign            Total
Government                                                4.8                  0.1           4.9
CESDF                                                     8.9                  1.1           10.0
IBRD                                                      8.7                  1.3          10.0
Recipients' Contributions                                 1.9                  0.2           2.1
Total         24.3                  2.7           27.0
Borrower: Romania
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):             1999             2000         2001
Annual              1.8              4.4            3.8
Cumulative              1.8              6.2          10.0
Project implementation period: 3 years. Expected effectiveness date: 01/29/1999 Expected closing date: 12/31/2001



Page 2
A: Program and Project Development Objective
1. Program development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex I):
The development objectives of the Social Development Fund Program are to contribute to
poverty alleviation and to community-driven development through:
(a) improving the livelihood of project beneficiaries/recipients in poor rural communities and
disadvantaged groups; and
(b) increasing the local organizational and self-help capacity (local level social capital).
Progress towards (a) will be evaluated based upon welfare improvement indicators (reflecting
both objective and perceived change in welfare) and measure of targeting effectiveness.  Progress
towards (b) will be indicated by the number of new Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) created.
The Program will be carried out in two phases: Phase I - Program Initiation; Phase 2 - Program
Development:
Phase 1:                         Phase 2:
Program Initiation              Program Development
Development Objective             *  Contribute to poverty          .  Further contribute to poverty
alleviation and to community-    alleviation and to community-
driven development through:      driven development through:
(a) improving the livelihood of  (a) improving the livelihood of
project beneficiaries in poor    project beneficiaries in poor
rural communities and disad-     rural communities and disad-
vantaged groups; and             vantaged groups; and
(b) increasing the local         (b) increasing the local
organizational and self-help     organizational and self-help
capacity.                        capacity.
Key Program Outputs               *  Organized and trained          .  Increased capacity of poor rural
community groups.                communities to organize
*  Non Governmental                  themselves.
Organizations (NGOs) oriented   .  Increased capacity of NGOs to
towards delivery of community-   deliver community based social
based social services.           services.
*  Small infrastructure          *  Small rural infrastructure
improvements initiated in poor   provided in poor communities.
rural communities.           *  Income generating activities
*  Income generating activities      provided in poor communities.
initiated in poor communities.    *  Improved effectiveness of sub-
*  Capacity to implement, monitor    projects financing in meeting
and evaluate the Program.        Program objectives as a result
of monitoring and evaluation
system.



Page 3
Phase 1:                        Phase 2:
Program Initiation             Program Development
Benchmarks for Phase 2 Adaptable  *  Well functioning RSDF
Loan Financing                       organization including trained
staff, adequate administrative,
monitoring and evaluation
systems.
* 1,000 sub-projects applications
registered and 300 poor rural
communities assisted.
*  Grants awarded to at least 200
Bank-financed sub-projects of
which about 60 should be
completed.
* Beneficiary assessment initiated
supported by monitoring
system.
* At least 60 percent of the APL
must be disbursed.
In addition to the above benchmarks, Project performance in tenrs of ability to initiate community improvement
pro2rams and adoption of key Social Development Fund standards will be closely monitored throughout the
Program.
Under this submission, Board approval is sought for a total commitment of US$20.0 million
throLIghl two Adaptable Program Loans (APL) to support the Romanian Social Development Fund
Program  (Program). Approval is hereby sought for a first APL of US$10.0 million to finance the
implementation of Phase I and authorization for Bank regional management to process and approve a
second API, of US$10.0 million to support the implementation of Phase 2, provided that the specified
benchimarks are met, and a request from the Borrower is received. Beyond these two APLs, the
Government may request further Bank financing for continued implementation of the Program. Such a
request would be prepared for Board consideration if Program implementation is satisfactory.
Key Performance Indicators.  Project performance will be monitored by four types of
performance indicators: (a) input indicators, such as number of facilitators, appraisers and supervisors
trained; (b) process indicators, such as number of communities facilitated, number of sub-project
applications registered, number of sub-projects appraised in the field; (c) output indicators, such as
number of CBOs established, number of water supply connections made, number of new income
generating activities developed, number of community-based social services provided; and (d) impact
indicators, such as number of beneficiaries served, attitude of beneficiaries, capacity of local authorities
to address community problems.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: Report No. 16559 RO. Date of latest CAS discussion: June 30, 1997.
The CAS objectives supported by the Project are:
(i) poverty alleviation; and
(ii) decentralization.



Page 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Poverty Alleviation. Poverty in Romania is pervasive and deep. An informal update in 1997
pointed to an increase in the incidence of poverty with 30 percent of the population living below the
poverty line. This represents an increase in poverty since the Bank's 1996 Poverty Assessment Report,
when 22 percent of the population were reported living below the poverty line and the poverty gap was
25 percent of the poverty line. While concrete data are not available, the evidence suggests that poverty
is even worse in 1998. The existence of poverty was ignored by successive governments after 1990.
After the general elections in November 1996, the newly elected Government acknowledged the
existence of poverty and the need to reduce it. The President created a National Poverty Alleviation
Commission, mandated to develop a Poverty Alleviation Strategy. The Government has expressed a
strong interest in the establishment of a Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF) as a tool to address
poverty at the community level and the Parliament passed the Law establishing the RSDF on June 30,
1998.
Decentralization.  Romania has inherited a strong tradition of centralization from  the
Communist era. For fifty years, for all aspects of economic and social development, decision-making
was concentrated in the hands of bureaucrats.  Local authorities (LA) have now  been elected
democratically, but their autonomy is restricted by lack of appropriate legislation and by financial
constraints. Decentralization is a high priority of the Government. A new Law on Local Public Finance,
which provides for greater LA fiscal autonomy, has recently been approved by Parliament.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
Poverty Alleviation. The social safety-net programs financed by the central government do not
succeed in reaching all the poor. Inefficient targeting results in many eligible persons not receiving
benefits (e.g., abandoned women with many children, homeless persons, 18-year olds leaving the
institutionalized child welfare system who lack the means for a normal life). In addition to the improved
social assistance laws, there will be a need to complement the passive safety-net programs with more
proactive measures. The strategic choice supported by the Program is meant to support such measures at
the community level and will serve as a mechanism to break the dependency of the vulnerable.
Decentralization. LAs are still weak, and lack both financial and human resources to address
poverty alleviation in an effective manner. Although the Government is committed to decentralization,
local decision-makers lack the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to address poverty issues at
the community level. NGOs have demonstrated their ability to implement successful community-based
social projects. However, despite their great potential, there are few examples of partnerships between
NGOs and LAs. LAs will gain experience through direct involvement in projects aimed at poverty
alleviation, in partnerships with CBOs and NGOs through the RSDF.
Social capital. The country has a low level of social capital as a result of the systematic
destruction of civil society and of private property. Values and norms such as trust, transparency,
reciprocity and participation have been undermined. This is reflected in people's passivity, inability to
articulate their needs and to participate at the community level in activities of common interest. The
Program will enhance social capital through financing sub-projects bringing various stakeholders (CBOs,
NGOs, and LAs) together. Funds will be channeled only to sub-projects designed and implemented in a
participatory manner amongst these groups.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
Through the Program, poor communities will be able to articulate their priorities for assistance and
to participate in the design and implementation of demand-driven sub-projects. Through this learning-by-
doing mechanism, communities will not only satisfy specific needs, but will also increase their ability to
identify and prioritize their demands, and mobilize and manage resources to design, implement, operate
and maintain their own projects. The goals over the four-year period (1999 - 2002) are to finance about
1,000 sub-projects. The sub-projects will improve the infrastructure in 600 poor rural communities,
develop 200 income-generating activities in poor communities, and improve the quality of services
offered to disadvantaged groups scattered throughout the country through 200 social service activities.
The Program will be carried out in two phases:
*  Phase I - Program  Initiation.  Phase I will initiate implementation by: (i) training
facilitators in community development and appropriate technologies, developing and
implementing the promotion strategy, establishing the RSDF administrative infrastructure,
training appraisers and supervisors, and creating a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to
analyze the outcomes of the Program; and (ii) initiating capacity building activities in poor
rural communities in the poorest counties, and selecting and financing the first set of sub-
projects. Clear eligibility criteria will be used for targeting purposes and is outlined in
Annex 13.
*  Phase II - The Program Development Phase. Phase 11 will: (i) continue the capacity
building of these communities; (ii) implement a promotion and communication campaign
based upon the results of the evaluation of the first phase; and (iii) increase the scope and
number of community sub-projects. The second phase will make use of monitoring and
evaluation carried out during the Program Initiation Phase on the sub-project's cost-
effectiveness and success at community capacity building.
The initial estimate of the Program cost of US$41.0 million is intended to satisfy these needs only
partially. The Government requested Bank financing to meet the projected gap of US$20.0 million,
between estimated total Program costs and expected local financing. Local contributions comprise
US$7.8 million from the state budget (of which US$5.0 million has so far been authorized), US$3.2
million from beneficiary contributions, and US$10.0 million from the Council of Europe Social
Development Fund (CESDF).
Since the RSDF is a new institution with an innovative approach, the Government requested an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Project activities have now been appraised and are ready for financing
under the first APL. After evaluation of Project effectiveness, financing of the second APL will be
determined. The lack of experience in Romania for this type of operation implies the need for extensive
involvement of the Bank during implementation of the first APL. This collaboration will extend through
supervision as the Project evolves, and during appraisal of the second phase of the Program as
performance benchmarks and triggers are reached by RSDF.



Page 6
The FirstAPL: The first APL (APL-1) for US$10.0 million would finance about 37 percent of the
total cost of implementing Phase 1. APL- I will finance grants for sub-projects (small rural infrastructure,
income generation, and social services) for which funding commitments have been made during the first
two years of the Program, with the sub-projects completed by year three. Detailed cost estimates and the
financing arrangements for Phase I are shown in Annex 3 and Annex 6, respectively.
The Second APL: The second APL (APL-2) will finance Phase II of tihe Program which consists
of sub-projects and activities similar to those carried out under Phase 1. Grants for these sub-projects
would be committed during the third year of Project implementation and executed by year four. Some
new activities may be added to the Program during this phase. Training of additional facilitators,
appraisers and supervisors as well as a follow-up promotional campaign may also be required. The major
elements of Phase 11 are known and estimated to cost about US$14.0 million (see Annex 3).
The Triggers for Moving to the Second APL: Five key actions are proposed as triggers for
proceeding to the APL-2 as outlined below:
]. Well functioning RSDF institution. Experience from Phase I must demonstrate that the
RSDF staff and administrative arrangements permit effective and timely implementation of
the Project.
2. Poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups manifest interest, organize and
participate in Project activities. Experience from Phase I must demonstrate that a effective
promotion and communication campaign is in place, and that the Project facilitates
community organization and development. The RSDF should have available: (i) facilitators
trained  in community  development; (ii) appraisers trained  in field  appraisal; and
(iii) supervisors with capacity to train members of Project Management Committees (PMC).
As a result of the RSDF, about 1,000 sub-project applications should be received, and
iiiiplementation should occur in about 335 rural communities.
3. Sub-projects are financed and implemented. Experience from the first phase must
demonstrate that grants were made to at least 200 Bank-financed sub-projects of which 60
were completed. This trigger for the APL-2 is designed to ensure that lessons learned during
the first phase are used to revise the RSDF policy, targeting mechanisms, criteria and
procedures for financing sub-projects.
4. Agreed monitoring and beneficiary assessments are carried out. The monitoring and
assessment will provide information on Project outcomes in terms of quantitative and
qualitative indicators, and the beneficiaries' perception of its effectiveness. These activities
are to be carried out before the first joint review of Project implementation in mid-November
2000. RSDF shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a report
integrating the results of these monitoring and assessment activities during the preceding
period, and furnish this report to the Bank no later than September 15, 2000.
5. At least 60 percent of the APL-1 funds allocated to sub-projects are disbursed.
The proposed APLs overlap because of the nature of activities to be financed. Under the APL-1,
sub-projects selected to receive grants at the end of the second year will be completed before the end of
the third year. However, at the end of the second year, it will also be possible to assess the benchmarks
and to decide on ways in which the Project is to continue.



Page 7
Project Components
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description of the Project, and Annexes 3 and 6 for a
detailed cost breakdown of the Program and the Project):
Project Component            Category       Cost Incl.      % of      Bank-    % of Bank-
Contingencies    Total   financing    financing
(US$M)                 (US$M)
1. RSDF Sub-Projects.               Policy/
Institution
1.1. Financing sub-projects prepared by  Building!       24.2        89.6        8.9         89.0
Recipienits in poor rural communities  Physical
and disadvantaged groups:
.  small rural infrastructure
(rehabilitate, upgrade, build or
equip),
• community-based social services;
. income generating activities.
1.2. Training and technical assistance
aimed at community level capacity
building for:
.  participatory identification and                       1.2         4.4        0.7          7.0
prioritization of needs;
. design, implementation and
monitoring of sub-projects;
* use of cost-effective standards and
appropriate technologies for small
infrastructure.
I1. RSDF Institutional Support.     Institution
11.1. Strengthen the institutional  Building/             1.6         6.0        0.4          4.0
capacity of the RSDF through training   Project
and technical assistance. 11.2. Provide   Manage-
support to the overall management of    ment
the RSDF Project.
Total         27.0        100.0       10.0       100.0



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Program
The most important policy supported by the Program is the development of social capital at the
community level by strengthening the local organizational capacity. The second policy supported by the
Program is poverty alleviation at the community level. Through its demand- driven and participatory
approach, the Program will increase people's ability to trust each other and cooperate in mobilizing
resources and solving problems.
3. Benefits and target population
The Project will generate benefits for poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups by
addressing their specific needs through sub-projects.
A poor rural community is defined as a group of poor rural householders facing the same
problems and obstacles, and having common interests.
A disadvantaged group is a group of poor individuals, identifiable through a common basic
need they are unable to satisfy through their own efforts. Such individuals do not normally have
access to all social assistance programs and are not assisted by family members or informal
networks.
'The reasons for targeting poor rural communities are the higher poverty rate in rural areas and the
reduced opportunities of small villages to access scarce resources.  The reasons for targeting
disadvantaged groups is the failure of the existing social safety net to address their needs. As poor rural
communities and disadvantaged groups are dispersed throughout the country, no system of pre-allocation
of resources to specific regions or groups is used. Because communities in the poorest counties also tend
to be rnore passive and less informed, a two-prong strategy has been devised under the RSDF. It would
involve: (i) the use of facilitators to help communities organize and design sub-projects; and (ii) adding
points to the poorest localities in the rating process for sub-projects appraised for RSDF funding (see
Annex 2).
The mechanism for targeting poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups will include:
(i) poverty maps (based on the World Bank Poverty Report and the European Union (EU) Regional
Disparities in Romania Report) for identifying poor counties which will benefit from additional points
awarded to sub-projects in the appraisal process; (ii) community ranking (based on a development index)
for identifying poorer communities to which facilitators will be directed; (iii) eligibility criteria for sub-
project selection; (iv) self-targeting of beneficiaries belonging to disadvantaged groups; (v) acceptance of
certain categories of sub-projects only; and (vi) the establishment of the maximum level of sub-project
financing at a low level (see Annex 2).
Among the Program benefits, an increased organizational capacity at local levels is envisaged.
New community-based organizations (CBOs) will be created and the capacity of local authorities and
NGOs to address poverty in a decentralized, participatory and partnership-based way will be
strengthened. This will increase: (i) the efficiency of local authorities and will reinforce the sense of
responsibility and involvement at the community level; (ii) the activity of NGOs in poor rural areas and in
urban peripheries; and (iii) the country's ability to better target poverty alleviation Programs and to
address poverty issues at the community level.



Page 9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The estimated period of implementation of the Program is four years (FY 1999-2002). Phase I
will be implemented during the initial three years (FY 1999-2001) and Phase 2 will be implemented over
a partially overlapping period of two years (FY 2001- 2002).
The implementing agency is the RSDF, established in 1998 by Law 129 (Annex 12) as an
autonomous institution. The RSDF will operate outside the prevailing public sector rules and regulations
relating to civil salaries, procurement and disbursement. Thus, it will be able to attract highly qualified
personnel and process and finance sub-projects quickly and in a transparent way. The RSDF will be
subject to strict control procedures and auditing.
The RSDF governance is assured by a nine-member Steering Committee nominated by the Prime
Minister and the President of Romania, and headed by a president. The Steering Committee of the RSDF
will approve the annual reports to be submitted to the Prime Minister, which, thereafter, will become
public documents. The Steering Committee will approve the RSDF's internal regulations, strategy and
policy, and the grants to be awarded to sub-projects upon recommendation of the sub-projects appraisal
committee. These regulations, strategy and sub-project procedures are described in an Operational
Manual prepared by the RSDF. Any amendments made to the Operational Manual or other legal
agreements governing the RSDF, including the Law establishing the RSDF and the Subsidiary
Agreement, should be agreed with the Bank before they are adopted.
The daily activities of the RSDF will be carried out by a small team of professionals reporting to
an Executive Director who will manage the resources of the RSDF. The RSDF will be staffed with a
professional financial manager and an accountant. Procurement and Management Information Systems
(MIS) specialists will ensure efficient implementation and accountability. The Executive Director and
key staff, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, have already been appointed.
Any changes in the personnel appointed to these positions or the terms of their employment would
be subject to prior Bank approval. The responsibilities of the RSDF include, but are not limited to:
(i) ensuring that the RSDF meets its objectives in an efficient and effective way; (ii) drafting and
maintaining the Operational Manual procedures and policies to be approved by the Steering Committee;
(iii) reviewing all applications and ensuring that the RSDF criteria are consistently applied;
(iv) presenting successful applications to the Steering Committee; (v) supervising the progress of all
proposed and approved projects; and (vi) building partnerships with relevant institutions. Three months
after the first disbursement, an appropriate auditing body will issue an opinion to the IBRD regarding the
accounting system's capacity to deliver auditable financial statements.
Sub-projects will be implemented by a designated Executing Agent (EA). In the case of rural
communities, the EA can be a sub-project management committee (PMC). The community will elect a
PMC (comprised of a manager, secretary and treasurer)and will fully participate in: (i) identification and
prioritization of needs; (ii) designation of the EA; (iii) contribution (cash or in kind) tothe sub-project;
(iv) assistance to the appraisers by providing the requested information; (v) sub-project implementation,
for achieving the agreed objectives; and (vi) providing supervisors with the information needed for the
evaluation of the sub-project. The community is expected to be accountable and responsible for the
efficient implementation of the sub-project and participate in the operation and maintenance of the sub-
project. It must also share experience with other communities and disseminate good results, particularly
on strengthening the organizational capacity and building trust in order to achieve a multiplier effect. In
the case of sub-projects targeted at disadvantaged groups, the EA will usually be an NGO, in partnership
with the Local Authorities (LA).



Page 10
Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of the RSDF. The monitoring
system would provide information on achievement of benchmarks and feedback on criteria and
procedures used for selecting and implementing sub-projects, enabling revisions of the Operational
Manual. The RSDF will submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on the Project in
accordance with an agreed format.
D: Program Rationale
1. Pro gram alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Initially, conventional loan financing was foreseen for this operation. Due to the innovative
community-based demand-driven approach and the need to support the new RSDF institution, APL
financing was considered to be more appropriate. The APL approach offers the Government and the
Bank the framework to assess the achievement of agreed benchmarks after two years, and decide upon its
continuation and expansion.
The Program variants considered, and rejected, included an alternative to the Project (no Social
Development Fund) and two different design options (only one category of sub-projects and several
regional Social Development Funds).
(a) No Social Development Fund. Targeting benefits to the most vulnerable groups of the
population is not possible by relying exclusively on social assistance programs administered centrally. A
recent assessment of the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme, conducted by the Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection (MOLSP), identified program design and implementation deficiencies. These included
complex forms to be filled in by claimants, exclusion and inclusion errors and lack of financial resources.
Universal social assistance programs are passive. Therefore, they need to be complemented with other
programs, such as the RSDF, which especially emphasize active participation, community involvement,
and decentralization.
(b) Creation of only one category of sub-projects. This narrowly focused operation was
rejected because the preliminary needs assessment (completed through field surveys and consultations
with NGOs) demonstrated that poor communities and disadvantaged groups are experiencing a broad
range of difficulties that generate varying needs. The various stakeholders consulted during project
preparation clearly stated that, after decades of imposed solutions to problems perceived by central
authorities, communities should have the right to decide for themselves what they consider to be a
priority intervention. In addition, such an approach was viewed as a way to increase the participation and
responsibility of communities in solving their own problems.
(c) Development of several regional Social Development Funds. Establishing a central Social
Development Fund was preferred because of economies of scale and in order to prevent parallel
investments in regional institutions.  The Social Development Fund will have the possibility of
developing regional branches. The EU supports the creation of these regional branches in Romania and
is assisting in the development of the necessary institutional framework. When these regional structures
are in place, the RSDF will have the possibility of using them to establish its own branches.



Page I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed ongoing
and planned)
Latest Supervision
(Form 590)Ratings
Sector issue                       Project                       (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Social Protection     Employment and Social Protection (Loan 3849-        S                S
RO):
Alleviate unemployment, improve efficiency of
employment and social protection services
Social Protection     Social Protection Adjustment Loan (Loan 4177-   Completed            S
RO):
Policy reforms to strengthen social safety net
Poverty Assessment    Report Romania: Poverty and Social Policy       Completed
(April 1996)
Education             School Rehabilitation (Loan 4213-RO):               S                S
Rehabilitate schools mitigating the educational
disadvantage of students studying in in-appropriate
environments
Child Welfare         Child Welfare Reform (LIL) (Loan4362-RO):       not rated yet   not rated yet
Test and promote community-based child welfare
approaches and cost-effective alternatives to
institutionalized child care
Other development
agencies
Provision of social   EU PHARE SESAME Project                      Ongoing
services at local level
Micro-projects        EU LIEN Program                              Completed
implemented by NGOs
Poverty Alleviation   UNDP                                         Ongoing
Strategy
Support to NGOs and    USAID Democracy Network Program             Ongoing
decentralization
IP/DO  Ratings:   HS  (Highly  Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U  (Unsatisfactory), HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design
The existing safety-nets do not succeed in reaching all the poor. The Minimum Income
Guarantee Scheme designed to support poor people and families is not functioning well. As long as there
is no global income statement based taxation system in Romania, real incomes are not known. This
situation leads to many inclusion errors. Even more dramatic are the exclusion errors. Desperately needy
people do not know that they are entitled to benefits, or how to access them. Many are too old or feeble
to attempt to obtain them. The RSDF Project will channel funds directly to poor rural communities, for
demand-driven sub-projects and to disadvantaged groups to meet their needs.
NGOs have demonstrated their ability to implement projects in the social sector. During the early
1990s, Romanian NGOs benefited from the financial and technical assistance of international NGOs. At
present they are developing their own activities and seeking partnerships with local administrations. The
RSDF Project will involve NGOs in different ways in: (i) information dissemination and facilitation, to
assist poor rural communities to organize, identify, prioritize needs and prepare sub-projects; and (ii) sub-



Page 12
project implementation, possibly in partnership with local authorities and CBOs.
The Project design also incorporates lessons learned from previous Bank's operations in
Romania and from the Bank's experience with other social funds.
Critical success factors for operations in Romania are:
(i)    broad participation and sufficient time in project preparation;
(ii)    provision of adequate information, promotion and facilitation activities; and
(iii)   adequate counterpart funding.
Critical factors for the success of social funds are:
(i)    political and institutional autonomy;
(ii)    political support and commitment to the mission of the Romaniani Social Development
Fund;
(iii)   qualified staff, paid with market-level wages;
(iv)   a dynamic executive director with good management experience;
(v)    targeting mechanisms for reaching the poor;
(vi)   wide facilitation and promotion;
(vii)  strong local participation;
(viii) clearly defined eligibility and appraisal criteria and transparent appraisal procedures;
(ix)   use of appropriate technologies in sub-project design; and
(x)    rigorous sub-project supervision and regular financial and operational auditing.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership
In a letter addressed to the Bank, the Prime Minister indicated his personal interest in the
preparation of a Social Development Fund Project and assigned one of his councilors as the contact
person during project preparation. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) signed a Bank-executed PHRD grant
which has been used for project preparation. The Government has appointed representatives of main
ministries as members of the Working Group of the RSDF. As a condition for appraisal, the Government
submitted to the Parliament a Law for setting up the RSDF institution (Law 129 of 1998 was passed by
the Parliament with substantial support from all political parties).
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project
The experience with establishing and using Social Development Funds in the Central and East
European Region is limited. However, the Bank has worldwide experience in developing social funds
which has been of assistance to the Government in preparing the Project. The lessons derived from the
implementation of funds in Latin America and Africa and, more recently, in Central Asia have been
heeded. Moreover, the Bank will be catalytic in mobilizing funds for the RSDF from other donors and
obtaining grants for project preparation. The Bank's involvement will ensure international standards of
transparency and accountability in the operation of the RSDF and will also ensure high standards by
monitoring and evaluating impact.



Page 13
E: Summary Program and Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Project file, see
Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Economic Analysis A plied to RSDF Sub-Projects. Given the nature and size of sub-projects
and the fact that they will be demand-driven, no detailed economic analysis is possible. However, basic
economic analysis, such as cost/benefit or cost/effectiveness will be carried out during the appraisal of
individual sub-projects according to the procedures described in the Operational Manual. In addition,
unit costs databases will be developed and regularly updated for each category of sub-project, to guide
the preparation and control of sub-project budgets.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Financial Analysis of the RSDF Program. The counterpart requirement for the Program over
its four-year duration is estimated at US$7.8 million, or 19 percent of total Program cost. As part of
project preparation, the country's current requirement for investment in roads and water systems was
reviewed. The total Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning (MPWTP) investment program
for 1997-99 is nearly US$1.3 billion. If 60 percent of the RSDF sub-projects are in small rural
infrastructure, RSDF will provide an additional US$23.4 million to help reach the critical needs of the
poorest areas. Government social spending (education, health and social assistance) is US$4.2 billion. If
20 percent of RSDF sub-projects are in social services, a total of US$7.8 million in additional resources
would be made available for services to priority groups. The RSDF investments are insignificant
compared to these Government programs and would not pose undue demands on the Government budget.
Financial Analysis of RSDF Sub-Projects. Financial analysis is carried out as part of each sub-
project appraisal. At this stage, the community and executing agency counterpart contribution would be
confirmed. The expected levels of the in-kind or cash contribution, by type of sub-project will be: (a) 10
percent of sub-project cost (net of taxes) for the small rural infrastructure category; (b) 5 percent of sub-
project cost (net of taxes) for the community based social services category; and (c) 15 percent of sub-
project cost (net of taxes) for the income generating category. The potential recurrent costs generated by
sub-projects have been reduced by the choice of the sub-project menu. A quantitative estimate of total
recurrent costs is not possible since the RSDF is a demand-driven mechanism and final distribution of
sub-project types is unknown. Unlike most universal social investment funds, the RSDF will not finance
the construction or upgrading of basic health and education infrastructure.
3. Technical:
Based on the public works needs survey developed by the MPWTP and on the results of the
Working Group field visits, a preliminary needs assessment for small infrastructure in rural areas was
produced. The evaluation revealed extensive needs in this area and an even more desperate situation in
the poorest counties.
An analysis of the technologies presently used in public works pointed out the lack of simple,
locally-based (appropriate) technologies. The existing technical norms, standards and requirements
reflect only large-scale public works which use centrally designed technologies. Consequently, a team of
local and international experts and civil engineering students have prepared special Handbooks, with
guidelines for the use of appropriate, cost-effective technologies, which make use of local materials and
labor force. To the extent that basic technical standards and norms in use in Romania reflect good
practices, RSDF technical standards and norms comply with them. The Handbooks were tested in the
field and were appropriately modified to make them easily understandable to local poor (and usually
more educationally disadvantaged) communities.



Page 14
Based on the technical analyses, clear requirements regarding maintenance, sector coherence,
roles of local actors, training needs and cost-sharing possibilities were derived. They are reflected in the
design of the appraisal criteria and in the description of the tasks and responsibilities of appraisers,
monitors and supervisors. The MIS also includes modules dedicated to the technical aspects of the sub-
projects.
An analysis of local prices for labor, materials and equipment was completed, to serve as a basis
for estimates of sub-project costs. These prices will be included in the Unit Costs Database module of the
MIS and will be periodically revised and updated during the lifetime of the Program.
4. Institutional:
Funding arrangements: The RSDF will open a Special Account for the loan funds. The
Romanian contribution will be provided through the General Secretariat of the Government. Two RSDF
staff will be authorized to withdraw funds from the Special Account. The RSDF will withdraw amounts
from the Special Account periodically.
Executing agencies:  The RSDF was designed to be a pro-poor and pro-participation
organization, close to communities and to grass-roots organizations, and focused on support partnerships
between different stakeholders in community development. During project preparation, a study was
developed examining various possible institutional arrangements, and their advantages and
disadvantages. The recommendations of the study were taken into consideration by the Government
when the decision on the RSDF institutional framework was made. Establishing the RSDF as a public
interest organization is an option which reflects the need to direct public funds to the most needy, in a
flexible, rapid way. A condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the execution of a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Ministry of Finance as the representative of the Borrower and the RSDF as
the implementing agency.
The Government has started the decentralization process by creating a framework through which
the local authorities are responsible and accountable. Although local authorities are empowered, they still
lack the appropriate organizational skills and financial resources to carry out the tasks. In addition, due to
the prevalence of the "top-down approach", local authorities cannot coordinate and manage the collective
action of people at the grassroots level. However, in the new political environment and under the existiig
legal framework, local authorities have the acquired autonomy for establishing rules for self-governance.
Based on these findings at the local level, and taking into account the objectives of the RSDF, a
partnership arrangement (community representatives and local authorities) seemed to be the most
appropriate solution for sub-project implementation. Local authorities may design and submit sub-
projects in partnership with CBOs or NGOs. The partnership should be formally endorsed by a mandate
to be included in the application package submitted to the RSDF.  Evidence has to be provided to
establish that the community has been fully involved in the process of identification and prioritization of
demands. LAs are expected to support RSDF appraisal and supervision teams provide information to
communities and NGOs and provide support for ensuring the sustainability of sub-projects by
contributing to operation and maintenance costs.
The NGO sector comprises around 10,000 associations and foundations that are registered with
the Ministry of Justice offices. However, it is believed that only five percent of the registered NGOs are
still active and are developing projects and providing services.



Page 15
Beginning in 1994, an annual NGO Forum was organized. During this annual Forum, the NGOs
performances are assessed and broadly debated. NGOs serve a wide spectrum of social and economiiic
needs, but for the most part they are located in the biggest cities of the country and are highly dependent
on financing and methodological support from international organizationls. Interilal support from the
Government is minimal because of strict budgetary constraints and the weak capacity of NGOs to sell
their services. The potential funds recipients and social services providers characterize the application
procedures as time consuming and too bureaucratic.
The RSDF will work with NGOs to reach targeted disadvantaged groups.  NGOs will be
encouraged to build partnership agreeinents with representatives of the disadvantaged groups and local
authorities. NGOs may also perform facilitationi activities in poor rural comminllities located in poor
counties. An NGC may serve the role of an EA, being contracted by the communlity, the lA, or directly
by the RSDF. In the last case, the NGO will submit a sub-project, serving as an interimiediary for
disadvantaged groups, in order to provide and deliver a social service. The RSDF also expects to use
NGOs with proven capacity as intermediaries for sub-projects related to incomile and employmlielit
generating activities.  The NGO  may provide technical assistance on marketinig, finanicial analysis,
management, savings issues and training.
Project management: Thle RSDF will maniage the project as the Project Management Unit
(PMlJ), under the guidanice/oversight of the RSDF Steering Comimiittee. An Executive Director, assisted
by a nationial team, will head the PMIU. The national team will include, amolg otilers:
*  coordiniators of the development, grant processing and impicileimitationi of' infrastrticttire,
social services and income generationl sub-projects;
*  specialists in f'inanicial adminiistrationi, procurclmcnit, management informlationi systems,
promiiotionis, facilitalioni, accouLnting; and
*  operationis assistants and SUppOlt staff.
Impicliemetationi capacities at the I'MU and sub-project (recipient/beneficiary) levels will be strengtlicihed
througlh technical assistance and traininig.
5. Social:
A preliminary needs assessment was undertaken thlroughi a series of' lield visits by the RSDF
preparation team  and the Working (iroup.  D)iscussions were held with representatives of local
authorities, NGOs and people from pooI rLral comimiiiunitics. 'T'hiis resulted in a better understanldilig of the
range and characteristics of the maini stakeholders of' the lProject, the range of' iieeds of the potential
beneficiaries and the potenitial ben{elits.
In-deptil social assessment studies ol' poor rural comimiiiuniiics, disadvantaged groups, and
potential implementinig agencies (CBos, NGiOs and providers of' social services) were carried out by
teams of sociologists. The methodology used iic[lided bothi quanititative and qualitative methods, such as
observation, in-depth interviews and focus groups coniduicted witlh commullity groups, officials from
public agencies, NGOs representatives and representatives of' disadvantaged groups.  The studies
identified the following poverty-related issues: poor inlrastrtictire (lack of roads, difficult access to
drinking water, underdevelopment of the telecomimiunticationl system), low access to basic health and
social services, poor quality of the land, grounid and water pollutioni, and periodical floods of crops.
Characteristics of the population in poor communities were identified as: aging of the population, high
unemployment, low organizational capacity. 'I'lhe study on thc poor cominuniities also identified the lack
of a "developmental culture", the prevalence of individualistic approaches and reactive attitudes (to the
detriment of proactive attitudes), and the lack of leaders with authority and ilfluence. 'I'he conclusions



Page 16
were used in the general design of the Project, particularly the targeting of the poor, the project cycle, and
appraisal criteria.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category       []A   [x] B   []C
Even though sub-projects are small, environmental reviews are needed, particularly in the case of
rural infrastructure sub-projects. Environmental checklists developed in accordance with Romanian
standards will be included as an annex to the Operational Manual. Sub-project applications will include
appropriate environmental checks and desk and field reviews will verify/check the environmenital
reviews.
7. Participatory:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
Project identification and preparation. Primary beneficiaries/recipients (community groups,
local authorities, NGOs) were consulted during field visits conducted within the framework of the
preliminary needs assessment and social assessment studies described at poinlt E.5. The preparation of
the facilitation process was done in a participatory manner. This led to: (i) the establishment of a task
force involving representatives of different NGOs experienced in participatory training; and
(ii) promotion and selection of future facilitators targeted toward local people, members of local NGOs.
and representatives of ethnic minorities.
Project implementation. The implementation of the Project will be highly participatory. The
members of poor rural communities will participate in identification and implementation of demand-
driven sub-projects. A PMC, elected by the community, will represent the community's interests. In the
case of disadvantaged groups, NGOs are expected to consult with recipients and communities and
collaborate with them in implementation.
b. Other key stakeholders
A series of information and consultation workshops were organized with the key stakeholders for
the development of the RSDF. They included representatives of NGOs, govermenit agencies and the
academic community. The design of the RSDF Projects reflects many of the issues, concerns and
recommendations made during these meetings. The preparation team was in close contact with the
members of the national Poverty Alleviation Commission. A Working Group was established in order to
involve representatives of the main related ministries in the preparation of the Project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project outcomes have an excellent chance at sustainability, given the higil level of
participation of communities in sub-project identification and implementation. This will create incenitives
at the local level for cost-recovery, maintenance services and pressure on local administrations to
continue funding bevond the end of the Project. Capacity building activities under the Project would help
sustain *.ervices and benefits beyond the Project. Co-financing by communities will increase the sense of
ownership. IThe use of appropriate technologies will lead to reduced operation and maintenance costs,
making them more affordable.



Page 17
Each sub-project proposal would contain an operational and maintenance plan, which would
include financial and institutional arrangements such as written commitment of local authorities to
continue financing the service and collection of user charges or service fees.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Unsustainability of sub-projects                     M         Emphasis on beneficiary participation
in implementation and maintenance,
adoption of sub-project appraisal
criteria which support partnerships
including local authorities.
Political interference                               M         Adoption of transparent eligibility and
appraisal criteria, broad promotion
campaign.
Poor rural communities unable to submit sub-         M         Training and support to facilitators who
projects                                                       will assist communities in identification
and prioritization of demands and
design of sub-projects.
Contractors unable to provide technologies           M         Clear technical standards described in
appropriate for the small infrastructure works                the Technical Guidelines, assistance
provided by technical facilitators in
promoting appropriate technologies.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Availability of co-financing                         S         Promote the RSDF and successful sub-
projects among the donor community
and involve donors in all stages of
project preparation.
Difficulties in recruiting and maintaining a high    H         Competitive salaries to the RSDF staff.
quality staff for the RSDF
Passive communities                                  M         Use facilitators, trained in community
development, for increasing the local
organization capacity and identifying
potential leaders.
Overall Risk Rating       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Political interference in RSDF operation.  Once sub-projects are selected and under
implementation, there is a high threat of take-over by local political actors, ready to claim credit for
possible successes.
Awarding sub-projects to ethnic minorities. The Program does not target ethnic minorities
specifically; however, it does not deny access to Project funds to poor rural communities or
disadvantaged groups formed by ethnic minorities as long as eligibility and appraisal criteria are met.
Certain ethnic minorities (mainly gypsies) may request exception from these criteria and special treatment
because of the specific situation of their communities.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions ofLoan effectiveness:
* Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance
and RSDF;
*  Submission of a shortlist of auditors with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the
performance of audit services.
2. Other Legal covenants include:
*  RSDF will be maintained by key staff with qualifications andterms of reference acceptable to the
Bank;
*  Amendments to the Operational Manual, the Subsidiary Agreement, and the Law governing the
RSDF, may only be adopted with prior agreement by the Bank; and
*  the RSDF will submit semi-annual project progress reports to the Bank in accordance with an
agreed format.
H. Readiness for Implementation
*  The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of Project implementation.
*  The procurement documents for the first year activities are complete and ready for
implementation.
*  A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was reviewed during appraisal. This documents has
been incorporated into the more comprehensive Operational Manual. The Manual was reviewed
at negotiations and has been found satisfactory for implementation subject to the incorporation of
agreed minor modifications in sub-project processing and implementation procedures and
processes, including procurement under sub-projects.



Page 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandijg
Program Team Leader: John Innes& 
Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace  fj 
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink



Page 20
Annex 1
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Program Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance             Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Poverty alleviation.      *  Percentage of poor        *  Review of statistics,   *  Political commitment and
population is reduced.       sector studies.          financial support to
*  Decentralization.         *  Progressive strengthening                              pursue policies in favor of
of local authorities.                                 the disadvantaged
populations.
Program Development                                                                 (Program Development
Objectives:                                                                        Objectives to CAS
.  Improve livelihood of     .  The gap between rural     .  Implementation        Objectives)
•  Improve livelihood of                                     0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Support for the Program
poor communities in rural    communities is               Completion Reports       is sustained.
areas and of disadvantaged   progressively reduced.       of each phase of the    a  Monitoring and
groups.                                                   Program.                 evaluation is used to
*  Percentage of resources   .  Bi-annual evaluation      revise design of the
devoted to disadvantaged     reports from each        second phase.
groups.                      phase of the Program.
*  Increase local            *  Percentage of sub-projects
organizational and self-     implemented by CBOs and
help capacity (local level   NGOs.
social capital).                                      *  RSDF bi-annual
reports based on MIS
Achievement of the Program   .                                statistics.
goals will occur progressively:                           .  Beneficiary
assessment.
Phase I (APL-I):
. Strengthen the capacity to
implement, monitor and
evaluate the Program.
Initiate selection,
financing and
implementation of sub-
projects, to achieve
Program objectives.
Phase 2 (APL-2):
* Use feedback from
monitoring process to
improve effectiveness of
sub-projects in meeting
Program objectives.
Continue sub-projects
selection, financing and
implementation.



Page 21
Narrative Summary              Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective (Phase 1):
*   Improve livelihood of     *  75% level of satisfaction    *  RSDF reports         *  The Government will
Project beneficiaries in      among Project             *  Benefits                   continue to support
poor communities and          beneficiaries.                Assessments,              poverty alleviation and
disadvantaged groups.                                   *  Beneficiary                decentralization.
Assessment, Bank
supervision
.  CBOs/NGOs reports
and audits.
.   Increase local            *  Number of new
organizational and seif-      community-based CBOs
help capacity (local level    created.
social capital).
Project Outputs:
A. I. Poor rural communities  A. I. More than 300 small     .  RSDF reports
benefit from improved         infrastructure works          .  Beneficiary
infrastructure.               operational in poor rural         Assessment, Bank
communities.                     supervision
*  CBOs/NGOs reports
A.2. Disadvantaged groups     A.2. More than 85 community       and audits.
benefit from community based   based social services created.
social services.
A.3. More than 85 income
A.3. Improved incomes and     generating activities created in
employment opportunities      poor communities.
among target population.
A.4. 10% of sub-projects
A.4. Improved situation of    address specifically poor
poor women (heads of large    women's issues.
families, elderly widows with
no family support, women
victims of violence,
unemployed young women).
B. 1. Increased capacity of   B. I. More than 335 new CBOs
communities to organize       created.
themselves.
B.2. Strengthened capacity of   B.2. Increased responsiveness
CBOs, local authorities, NGOs   of CBOs and NGOs to poverty
to deal in a demand-oriented,    alleviation. More than 200
participatory way with        partnerships established
problems of the poor.         between local authorities
CBOs and NGOs.



Page 22
Narrative Summary              Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budgetfor each                                     (Components to Outputs)
components (Phase 1): (see  component)
Annex 2 for Project
description)
I.RSDF Sub-Projects.         1. US$25.4 million             *   Progress reports      *  The RSDF will be able to
1.1. Financing sub-projects   1.1. (US$24.2 million)        *  disbursement reports       operate with autonomy,
prepared by recipients in poor                              *  audits.                    according to law
rural communities and                                                                     129/06.30.1998.
disadvantaged groups:                                                                 *  Line ministries accept the
*  small rural infrastructure                                                             RSDF and cooperate with
(rehabilitate, upgrade,                                                               it.
build or equip);                                                                  *   Budgetary resources are
.  community based social                                                                 available in time.
services;
.   income generating
activities and employment
opportunities;
1.2. Training and technical   1.2. (US$1.2 million)
assistance aimed at community
level capacity building for:
.  participatory identification
and prioritization of needs;
.  design, implementation
and monitoring of sub-
projects;
*  use cost-effective
standards and appropriate
technologies for small
infrastructure.
11. RSDF Institutional Support.  11. US$1.6 million
11.1. Strengthen the
institutional capacity of the
RSDF through: training, and
technical assistance.
11.2. Provide support to the
overall management of the
RSDF Program.



Page 23
Annex 2
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Project Description (APL-1)
Project Component 1 - US$25.4 million (including contingencies)
RSDF Sub-Projects.
Under this component, about 1,000 sub-project proposals are expected to be appraised for
grants awards. Of these proposals, about 500 sub-projects are expected to be awarded grants,
inplemented by the recipients, and supervised by RSDF.  The sub-projects are of three
categories:
*  small-scale infrastructure sub-projects (about 300) with an average sub-project cost of
US$58,000 and a maximum cost of US$ 75,000;
-  community-based social services sub-projects (about 100) with an average sub-project
cost of US$15,000 and a maximum cost of US$20,000; and
-  pilot income  generating  activities  and  sub-projects  supporting  employment
opportunities (about 100) with an average sub-project cost of US$16,500 and a maximum
cost of US$20,000.
The selection of the three sub-project categories was based on the results of a preliminary
needs assessmenit andi information regarding ongoing sector programs. The rehabilitation of
schools or rural healthi units was not considered for iniclusioni in the infrastructure sub-project
group because Romania has two ongoing Bank-finianced projects already attending to these
needs. The Ministry of Education has initiated a large school rehabilitation program based oni
technical assessmenlts prepared by local education and construction authorities. The Ministry of
Health is also already reforming its health assistance system and upgrading local health centers.
The small-scale infrastructure category of sub-projects is targeted at poor rural
communities. The sub-project menu includes small rehabilitation/repair, upgrading, and building
works, as well as the provision of related services (e.g., preparation of designs) and small
quanitities of equipment for the following:
(i) social infrastructure
*  local water supply/piping, artesian wells, etc.
*  latrines
*  sewerage systems
*  community centers
(ii) economic infrastructure
*  rural roads
*  bridge repairs
A minimum contribution of 10 percent of the sub-project cost (net of taxes) is expected
from recipients (in-kind or cash).



Page 24
The community-based social services category of sub-projects is targeted at
disadvantaged groups. The sub-project menu includes:
(i) social services for disadvantaged children including day care centers, services for
orphans and abandoned children leaving institutions, and shelters/services for street
children;                                `
(ii) life skills development and post-institutionaiization assistance for orphans and
abandoned teenagers.
(iii)home care for disadvantaged elderly;
(iv) shelters or services for homeless; and
(v) juridical assistance services for accessing all social protection programs.
The involvement of the community will be sought along with a contribution of up to five percent
of the Project cost (net of taxes).
The income generating activities and employment opportunities category of sub-
projects is targeted at poor rural communities.  The piloted sub-projects are aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the productive groups from these communities through: technical
assistance; institutional support; business skills training; network building and strengthening.
The activities supported are:
(i) processing and marketing wood, wool, fruits, vegetables;
(ii) producing and marketing handicrafts;
(iii)rmarkets, storage facilities rehabilitation;
(iv) solar tents, greenhouses; and
(v) community bakeries.
The eligible applicants are: community-based productive groups and crafts associations
and cooperatives working individually or in partnership with local authorities and NGOs. A
minimum contribution of 15 percent of the sub-project cost (net of taxes) is expected from the
productive group. After the initial phase (APLI), the RSDF Steering Committee should assess if
conditions are met for dedicating part of the fund to a revolving fund to be used to provide micro-
credits to individuals and/or productive groups.
Sub-Project Processing Cycle
The criteria for approval of sub-projects and the procedures to be followed for targeting,
appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of sub-projects are detailed  in the
Operational Manual. The sub-project cycle includes the following sequence of activities.
Promotion and Facilitation
Promotion activities will include national level campaigns (using TV, radio, newspapers
and organizing seminars with NGOs, parliamentarians, journalists) and county level promotion
(using local media, posters, leaflets and organizing workshops). The Project promotional
activities will pay special attention to women's priorities and needs. Rural communities from the
poorest counties will benefit from a special type of promotion, performed by facilitators. The
role of a facilitator would be to coach and enable a community to get organized, to be able to
define and prioritize demands in a participatory way and to prepare sub-projects. The component
will cover the costs of training and using facilitators.



Page 25
Sub-Project Identification and Preparation
Sub-project generation will be demand-driven and participatory. In the case of poor
rural communities, their members are expected to decide eventually with the assistance of
facilitators, in a participatory manner, the needs they want to address. Women's involvement in
the process will be monitored. The RSDF will require proof that the sub-project was originated in
a participatory manner (minutes from the community meeting signed by participants).  The
community must designate an EA. The EA will be an elected PMC which is registered at the
mayor's office. Women's representation in the PMC will be emphasized.   The RSDF will
encourage the establishment of partnerships between communities, NGOs and LAs. In the case of
disadvantaged groups, the sub-project will be prepared by an NGO, in consultation with
potential recipients and in partnership with LAs.
The proposals for sub-projects will be subject to a selection process. The RSDF will
publicly announice deadlines for applications, as well as the tranches of available funds. Upon
registration of an application, the RSDF will pre-screen the proposal to ensure conformity with
the following eligibility criteria: (i) poverty level of the community and/or disadvantaged status
of the group; (ii) type of intervention and amount requested; (iii) category of EA (CBO, NGO,
LA etc.); (iv) proof of community participation in needs identification; and (v) complete
application package.
Based on the poverty and social assessment studies, the RSDF will consider a rural
community to be eligible from a poverty standpoint if it meetsat least four of the following
criteria:
(i)   more thani 60 percent of the homes do not have access to electricity;
(ii)  there is no access to safe water (lack of water, or difficult access to water for more
than 50 percent of the community members);
(iii) the time to reach the nearest physician by the transportation mode available to the
majority of the community members is greater than two hours;
(iv)  the nearest city to the community is greater than 30 km. and there is no bus or
railway connection;
(v)  infant mortality rate in the community during the last four years is higher than 0.5
percent;
(vi) more than 50 percent of the school-age children take more than one hour to reach
schlool;
(vii) more than 30 percent of the community members are over 60 years old;
(viii) the community has no telephones;
(ix) there are fewer than four TV sets per 100 community members; and
(x)  less than two percent of the households own a private car.
Based on the findings of the social assessment study, the eligible disadvantaged groups
for the RSDF Project will include:
(i)  disadvantaged children (street children, 18-year old orphans and abandoned
children who need to leave institutions; children belonging to families in crisis);
(ii)  disadvantaged women (poor single women, female heads of large families with
three or more children, women with children who are subject to violence, pregnant
teenagers with no family support);
(iii) disadvantaged elderly: poor and physically-dependent elderly; and poor and single
elderly;



Page 26
(iv) homeless people; and
(v)  illiterate and isolated poor.
The eligibility criteria and thresholds will be refined during Phase I of the Project.
If the proposal does not meet the eligibility criteria, it can be rejected or it can be sent
back with recommendations for improvement. Accepted applications will be submitted to a team
of 2-3 appraisers. The component will cover the costs of training and contracting appraisers.
Appraisal and Approval
All accepted applications will be subject to a Desk Appraisal. The seven categories of
criteria to be used in appraisals are listed below. The different relative weights to be used for
rating small infrastructure and income generation sub-projects and for social services sub-
projects are as follows:
Small Infrastructure and
Income Generation        Social Services
Sub-Projects           Sub-Projects
I. Expected benefits                                 10                      10
2. Technical consistency                             30                      30
3. Economic and financial soundness                  20                      10
4. Implementation capacity                           20                      30
5. Beneficiary participation-contribution            10                      10
6. Sustainability                                    10                      10
7. Regional poverty                            Additional credit       Additional credit
Sub-projects will be ranked according to the scores received during appraisal. Proposals
that fail to meet the qualification threshold (to be determined) will not be accepted.  The
proposals, which pass the threshold, will be subject to a Field Appraisal which will check the
conformity of the written documents with the reality.  Appraisers will offer assistance to
communities and disadvantaged groups whose applications merit consideration but need to be
improved to meet the standards of RSDF. A final ranking of the sub-projects, based upon
appraisal reports, will be made by the Technical Department of the RSDF and recommendations
for approval will be submitted to the Steering Committee. The number of sub-projects approved
would be limited by the funds available for a particular round of competition. Applications
which meet the appraisal qualification threshold, but which were not considered for grants due to
funding limits, will be given another opportunity to compete for RSDF funding in subsequent
rounds of competition.
Contracting
For approved sub-projects, a Grant Agreement will be signed between the Executive
Director, representing the RSDF, and the EA, on behalf of the recipients. The agreement will
stipulate:
(i)    grant amount;
(ii)   scope and description of the sub-project;
(iii)   implementation period;
(iv)   monitoring activities;
(v)    community's contribution and participation;
(vi)   agreements with local authorities;



Page 27
(vii)  procurement procedures (as agreed with the Bank)
(viii)  disbursement conditions;
(ix)   financial reporting requirements; and
(x)    bookkeeping and accounting standards/requirements; and
(xi)   compliance with environmental norms.
A disbursement plan will be attached to the agreement. Using the grant for purposes
other than those stipulated in the agreement will nullify the grant and suspend disbursements.
Under certain circumstances, change of orders may be accepted (i.e., in situations of unexpected
delays in implementation, sudden price increases, or other reasons mentioned in the Grant
Agreement).
Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
The RSDF will not be involved in the implementation of the sub-projects. This will be
the responsibility of the recipient or the EA. The EAs will vary depending on the category of
sub-project. In the case of small infrastructure sub-projects, the EA is expected to be the PMC,
who may contract the works in its entirety, or in part with the community executing the other
parts. In most instances, social services sub-projects may be implemented by NGOs. In the case
of the income generating activities, the EA will be the PMC. The Grant recipients are required to
closely monitor the implementation of their sub-projects and to make sure that procurement is in
accordance with the procedures for procurement of small works, equipment and consultant
services for sub-projects, as stipulated in the Grant Agreements and described in detail in the
Operational Manual.  The RSDF will assign supervisors to visit sub-projects to monitor
compliance with procurement procedures and inspect the quality and progress of works. The
project will cover the costs of training and using supervisors. Specifically, the aspects to be
monitored/supervised are:
(i)    achievement of objectives;
(ii)    physical progress/status of the sub-projects;
(iii)  technical quality;
(iv)   contractor performance;
(v)    community participation, commitment and organization;
(vi)   sub-project management
(vii)  procurement; and
(viii)  financial management and accounting.
Disbursement of grants for sub-projects will be made in tranches. Upon approval of the
Grant Agreement, an advance of a maximum amount of 20 percent will be allocated. Subsequent
disbursements would be made against completion of previously agreed and definecd parts of the
works or of certain activities. Based on the results of supervision visits, RSDF supervisors will
clear the release of subsequent tranches.
Completion of sub-projects will be judged from three points of view: (i) activities - all
agreed activities are successfully completed; (ii) financial - all funds are accounted for; and
(iii) legal - legal documents are signed. Upon completion of the sub-project, a closing form will
be prepared by RSDF attesting that the sub-project is satisfactorily completed and that provisions
have been made by grant recipients for the future operation, maintenance and sustainability of the
sub-project. With this certification, ownership will be transferred to recipients.



Page 28
Project Component 2 - US$1.6 million (including contingencies)
RSDF Institutional Support. This component will support the development of the
capacity of the autonomous RSDF institution to manage the Fund resources. The support to the
RSDF institution will include: (a) provision of training and technical assistance to improve the
agency's operational capacity and internal procedures, setting up an MIS, promotioll and public
relations activities, and support to the overall management of the RSDF Project; (b) operational
and administrative costs; (c) procurement of office equipment and vehicles to facilitate sub-
project supervision. The Project will finance the investment, operational and administrative costs
(including staffing of the RSDF institution) for the duration of Project implementation.
Completion and Closing
The project is expected to be completed by September 30. 2001. The Loan Closing Date
will be December 31, 2001. The RSDF will prepare an Implementation Completion Report and
submit this report to the Bank no later than six months prior to the Closing Date of the Loan.



Page 29
Annex 3
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Estimated Program and Project Costs
3.1       Program  Cost: The total RSDF Program, including contingencies and taxes, is estimated to cost
about US$41.0  million  equivalent.  The RSDF  Program  will be implemented  in two  pliases (Phase I -
1999-2001 and Phase 11 - 2001-2002). Each phase will be funded by the Bank through an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). Phase I will be co-financed by the Government, the Recipients, the Bank, and the
Council of Europe Social Development Fund (CESDF). Phase 11 is expected to be co-financed by the
Government, the Recipients, and the Bank. Other Donors are still to be identified. The estimated overall
cost of the RSDF Program, disaggregated into local and foreign (direct and indirect costs) is shown below
in Table 3A. The costs of the overall RSDF Program by Project component and by category of
expenditure are shown in Table 3B and Table 3C respectively.
Table 3A - RSDF Total Program Cost (APLI and APL2)
(US$ million)
Council of
The Government         Recipients        The World Bank        Europe Fund              Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
I. Foreign                   0.2       5.8       0.4        9.0       2.5      59.3        1.1      25.8       4.1      10.1
11. Local (Excl. Taxes)      1.1       3.6       2.9        9.5      17.5      57.6        8.9      29.3      30.5      74.2
Ill. Taxes                   6.4    100.0           -         -         -          -         -         -       6.4       15.7
Total Prolect                7.8      18.9       3.3        8.0      20.0      48.7       10.0      24.4      41.0     100.0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
Table 3B. RSDF Total Program (APLI and APL2) Cost by Project Component
(US$ million)
Council or
The Govemment    Recipients    The World Bank    Europe Fund       Total      Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %              Taxes
A. First APL
1. SDF Sub-Projects
a Sub-ProjectDeveiopment               35    144       21      89      8.9   369      96    398    24.2    589         34
b BuildingCommunityCapacity            0.2   16.6                -    0.7   53.1      0.4    302      12      30       02
SubtolalSDFSub-Projects                  3.7    145      21      84     96    377    10.0    393    254    61.9          36
2. SDF Institutional Support
a SDF Caparaly Building                          -       -       -     01    1000       -       -     01      02
b SDF Management                       1.2   78.2                -     0 3    21.8              -     15      3 7      03
Subtotai SDF Instttutional Support       1.2   74.7        -      -     0.4   25 3                   -    1 6   3 9      0 3
Subtotl FrtAPL                             49    18.1    21        7.9    100    370    100    370    270    658           39
B Second APL
1. SDF Sub.Projcbs
a Sub-Project Development              2.3   18.0      11      8.8     95    73.2               -    12.9    31 5      23
b Bulding Community Capacity           01     180       _       -      04    82.0                     0.4    1.1       01
Subtotal SDO Sub-Projectb                2.4    180      1.1    8.5    9.8   735          -       -   134    326         24
2. SDF Institutional Support
a SDF Cap aty BuIlding                 0.0   22.5        -       -    01    77.5        -             01      03       00
b SDF Management                       05    87.6        -       -     01    12.4       -       -     05      13       01
Subtotal SDF Institutional Support       0.5   74.6        -      -     0.2   25.4   _0 6                       16       0 1
Subtotal Second APL                        2.9   20.6    1.1    8.1    100    71.3                  -    140    342        25
TotlDisbursemnt                          7.8   18.9    3.3    8.0   20.0   487    100    244    41.0  100.0              64
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Page 30
Table 3C - RSDF Total Program Cost (APLI and APL2) by Category of Expenditure
(US$ million)
Council of
The Government       Recipients      The Worid Bank     Europe Fund           Total
Amount    %       Amount    %       Anount    %       Amount    %        Amount    %
1. Investmnnt Cots
A. Firt APL
1. Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)
a Small-scale Intrastrucure Grants                                 1.4     13 9      0 9       90       7 S     77 1        -               9 7     23 6
b. CommrunityBased Social ServicesGrants                           0.1     14.8      00        47       07      807              -          09        2.1
c Income Generation Acfivtly Grants                                0.1      13.3     0 1      13.0      0 6     73 7             -          0 9       21
Subtotal Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)                1 8     13 9      1 0          89   8 8     77 1        -               11 4     27 9
2. Subproject Develpment Grrnts (CESDF Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructur Grants                                1.5     139        10       90         -               82      77.1     106       259
b. Comnunity Based Social Servicas Grants                          0.1     14,6      0 0       4 7                 -      0 7     80 7      0 9       2 1
c. Income Generation Acbioty Grants                                0.1     133       0 1      130         -               07      73.7       1 0      23
Subtotal Subproject Development Grants (CESDF Financed)              1.7      13 9      1 1      9 0                        9 6     77 1      12 5     30 4
3. Consultant and Spcialized Services (Bank-Financed)
a. Conwuhnnt Sermces for RSDF
Local Experts                                                    0.0     25 9        -                01      741                  -      0 2      0 4
Foreign Experts                                                  0.1     25.9        -        -       01      741         -               0 2      0 5
Subtotal Consultant Srvics for RSDF                                0.1     25 9                  -      0 3     741                  -      0 4       0 9
b. Consutant Serces for Bank-Financed Subprojects                  0.1     18,0         -        -      03      82 0        -        -      04        1 0
Subtotal Consultant and Specialized Services (Bank-Financed)         0.2     21 7                         0       78 3                         08       1 9
4. Consultant and Specialized Services (CESDF-Financ*d)
a Consuhant Serces for CESDF-Financed Subprojacts                  0.1      18 0        -                          -      0 4     82 0      0 5       1 1
5. Training
a. Training In-country                                               -        -         -        -      02    100 0                  -      0 2       0 4
b. Trminig Abmad                                                                                        01 1_    0 0                        01        0.2
Subtotl Training                                                                          -        -      0 2    100 0        -                0 2      0 8
S. Goods
a. Equipment                                                       0.0      180                  -      02      820         -        -      02        0.5
b. Matedals/Supplies                                              080       184             -           0.1     818         -        -      01        0.2
Fubtotal Goods                                                       0.0      181 f                       0.2     81 9        -                03       0 7
7. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                        0 1    100.0         -        .        -   -             -                0.1      0.2
Subtonta FirsO APL                                                     3.7    14 5        2 I      8.3      99      384      100      388       25.8     828
B. Second APL
1. Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)
a. Small-scale infrastructur Grnts                                 1.9     18 o       0 9      8.9      7 7     73 1        -               10 5     25 5
b. Community Based Social Servires Grants                          0.2      18 0     01        4.7      0 9     77 3                         1 1      2 8
c. Income Generabon Actity Grants                                  0.2      180      0.2      127       0.8     69.3                         1.2      29
Subtotal8ubprojectDevelopmentGrants(lERDFinanced)                    2.3      18.0      1.1      89       94      731         -        -      128      312
2. Consultant and Specialized Services
a. Consutant Semices for RSDF
Local Experts                                                    0 0     25.9        -        -      01       741                  -      0.1      0 2
Foreign Experts                                                  0.0     25,9        -          -     00      741         -          .    0        0.1
Subtotal Consultant Services for RSDF                              0.0     259         -                0 1     74          -        -      0.1      0 2
b Consutant Services for Bank-Financed Subprloects                 0.1     180         -   -            0 4     82 0        .          .    04        1 1
Subtotal Consultant and Specialized Services                         0 1      195         -               04      805         -        -       06       13
4. Goods
a Equipment                                                        0.0     180         -                00      820         -        -      00        01
b Matenrlu/Supplies                                                00      184         -         .      00      81          -        -      01        01
Subtotal oods                                                        0 0      18 2        -          -      1     81 8        -          -      1       0 3
S. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                        01    1000 0         -            -                  -            -       01       0 2
Subtotal Second APLt                                                    2.5     18 7      1.1      8.4      99      72.9        -         -     136      33 1
Total Investment Costs                                                    63      159       3.3      8.3     198      503       100      254      393      959
11. Recurrent Costs
A. First APL
1. Non-Salary Operational Costs of RSDF                              0 3    100.0 0                                  -                        0 3      0 7
2 Operational Costs Related to Subproject Development                0.1      59.0        -        -      0 1     41 0                        0 2       0 6
3 RSDF Personnel Smlares                                             0 6    100.0 o         -        -               -        -                o.6      r 5
4 RSDF SteeRng Comminee                                              0.1    100.0         -        -        -        -        -        -      01        0 2
Subtotal Firt APL                                                       11      92 0        -        -      01       8 0                         12       3 0
B. Second APL
1 Non-Salary Operational Costs of RSOF                               0 1    1002 o          -                        -        -        -      0 1      0 2
2 Operational Costs Related to Subproject Development                0.0      1 8.0       -        -      01      82 0        -           -      1      0 3
3. RSDF Personnel Salares                                            0.2    100.0         -                 -        -        -        -      0 2       0 5
4. RSDF Steenng Commitee                                             0.0    100.0                  -                 --       .                o0       0 1
Subtotal Second APL                                                    0'       78.0        -        .      o.      22 0             -           0.5      1 1
Totl Recurrent Costs                                                      15      88.2        -               02      11.8        -         -      17       41
Total Disbursement                                                     7 8      18.9      3.3      8 0     20 0     48.7     10 0     2',T      41 0    100 0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
3.2          APL 1: The total cost of Phase 1, including contingencies and taxes, which iscofinanced by the
Bank under APLI is estimated at about US$27.0 million equivalent. All Project-related expenditures will
be subject to local taxes and duties. The foreign cost component of Phase I is estimated at US$2.8
million equivalent or about 10 percent of the total Phase I cost. The total local cost component is about
US$24.2 million of which about US$3.9 million comprise local taxes and duties. Details of the Project
cost under Phase 1, APLI are shown in Table 3D, Table 3E, Table 3F, and Table 3G below.



Page 31
Table 3D - Total Project Cost Under Phase I (APL 1)
(US$ million)
Council of
The Government      Recipients     The World Bank    Europe Fund           Total
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %
I. Foreign              0.1      4.9      0.2      8.8     1.3    47.7       1.1    38.7      2.8    10.2
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)  0.8     4.1      1.9      9.3     8.7    42.7       8.9    43.9    20.3    75.3
III. Taxes              3.9   100.0         -       -        -        -        -        -     3.9    14.5
Total Project           4.9    18.1       2.1      7.9    10.0    37.0    10.0    37.0    27.0   100.0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
Table 3E - Phase I (APLI) Cost by Project Component
(US$ million)
%      % Total
(US$ Million)        Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. First APL
1. SDF Sub-Projects
a. Sub-Project Development                     21.9      2.3     24.2         10       90
b. Building Community Capacity                  1.2      0.0       1.2         3        5
Subtotal SDF Sub-Projects                        23.1       2.4     25.4         9       94
2. SDF Institutional Support
a. SDF Capacity Building                          -      0.1       0.1       100         -
b. SDF Management                               1.2      0.3       1.5        21        6
Subtotal SDF Institutional Support                1.2      0.4       1.6        25         6
Total BASELINE COSTS                               24.2       2.7     27.0        10       100
Physical Contingencies                            0.0      0.0       0.0        47         -
Price Contingencies                               0.0      0.0       0.0        51         -
Total PROJECT COSTS                              24.3      2.8      27.0        10      100
Note: Amounits may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Page 32
Table 3F - Phase I (APL1) Cost by Category of Expenditure
(US$ million)
%      % Total
(USS Million)        Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. First APL
1. Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Grants                                8.9      0.8      9.7         9       36
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                           0.8      0.1      0.9        13        3
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                                0 7      0.2      0.9        17        3
Subtotal Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)               10.4      1 1     11.4        10       42
2. Subproject Development Grants (CESDF Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Grants                                9 7      0 9     10.6         9       39
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                           0.8      0.1      0.9        13        3
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                                0.8      0.2      1.0        17        4
Subtotal Subproject Development Grants (CESDF Financed)              11 3      1.2     12.5        10       46
3. Consultant and Specialized Services (Bank-Financed)
a. Consultant Services for RSDF
Local Experts                                                     0.1      0.0      0.2        24        1
Foreign Experts                                                   0.1      0.1      0.2        37        1
Subtotal Consultant Services for RSDF                               0.2      0.1      0.4        31        1
b. Consultant Services for Bank-Financed Subprojects                0.4        -      0.4          -       2
Subtotal Consultant and Specialized Services (Bank-Financed)          0.7      0.1      0.8        14         3
4. Consultant and Specialized Services (CESDF-Financed)
a. Consultant Services for CESOF-Financed Subprojects               0.5               0.5          -       2
5. Training
a. Training In-country                                              0.2        -      0.2          -        1
b. Training Abroad                                                    -      0.1      0.1       100         -
Subtotal Training                                                     0.2      0.1      02         31         1
6. Goods
a. Equipment                                                        0.1      0.1      0.2        61        1
b. Materials/Supplies                                               0.1      0.0      0.1        16         -
Subtotal Goods                                                        01       01       0.3        50         1
7. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                           -      0.1      0.1       100         -
Total Investment Costs                                                   23.0      2.7      25.7       10        95
II. Recurrent Costs
A. FirstAPL
1. Non-Salary Operational Costs of RSDF                               0.3      0.0      0.3         8        1
2. Operational Costs Related to Subproject Development                0.2      0.0      0.2         8         1
3. RSDF Personnel Salaries                                            0.6        -      0.6          -       2
4. RSDF Steerng Committee                                             0.1        -      0.1          -        -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     1.2      0.0       1.2        4         5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     24.2      2.7     27.0        10       100
Physical Contingencies                                                  0.0      00 0°      0        47         -
Price Contingencies                                                     0.0      0.0       0.0       51         -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    24.3      2.8     27.0        10      100
Note: Amounits may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Page 33
Table 3G - Phase I (APLI) Expenditure Accounts by Project Component
(US$ million)
Fir st APL
SOF Institutional
SDF Sub-Projects        Suppoit
Btlinlilig    SDF
Sub-Pioject Comniluity Capacity     SDF
Developnment Capacity  Btuilding Management Total
1. Investment Costs
A. First APL
1. Subpr ojeet Developmeit Gi ants (IBRD Finaniced)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Grarts                                 9.7         -         -           -      9.7
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                            0.9         -         -           -      0.9
c. Income Generation Activiy Grants                                  0.9         -         -           -      0.9
Subtotal Subpioject Developnmenyt Grains IIBRD Financed)              11.4         -         -           -    11.4
2. Subproject Developmenlt Giants ICESDF Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Grants                                10.6         -         -           -    10.6
b. Communty Based Social Services Grants                             0.9         -         -           -      0.9
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                                 1.0         -         -           -      1.0
Subtotal Sutbpr oject Developmert Graints ICESDF Financed(l           12.5         -         -           -    12.5
3. Consultanvt and Specialized Services IBank-Financedl)
a. ConsuHart Services for RSDF
Local Experts                                                       -        01          -         0.0      0.2
Foreign Experts                                                     -          -         -         0.2      0.2
Subtotal Consultaint Seivices for RSDF                                -        0.1         -         0.2      0.4
b. Consutarnt Services for Bank-Financed Subprojects                  -        0.4         -           -      0.4
Subtotal Constlanvt adI Specialized Services (Bank-Financedi             -       0.6         -         0.2      0.8
4. ConsultanTt andl Specialized Sea vices ICESDF-Financedl
a. Consulant Services for CESDF-Financed Subprojects                  -        0.5         -           -      0.5
5. Ti aininSg
a. Training In-country                                                -        0.2         -           -      0.2
b. Training Abroad                                                    -          -       0.1           -      0.1
Subtotal Tralining                                                      -        0.2       0.1           -      0.2
6. Goods
a. Equipment                                                          -          -         -         0.2      0.2
b. MaterialsISupplies                                                          0.1                     -      0 1
Subtotal Goods                                                          -        0.1         -         0.2      0.3
7. Fr oan-endl Fee on Bank Loan                                         --                             01       0 1
Total Investment Costs                                                    23.9        1.2      0.1         0.5    25.8
II. Recutrenvt Costs
A. First APL
1. Non-Salary Operational Costs o1 RSDF                                  -         -         -         0 3      0.3
2. Operational Costs Related to Subproject Development                 0 2         -         -           -      0.2
3. RSDF Personnel Salaries                                              -          -         -         0.6      0 6
4. RSDF Steering Commttee                                               -          -         -         0.1      0.1
Total Recur  eint Costs                                                    0.2          -        -         1.0      1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     24.2       1.2       0.1         1.5    27.0
Taxes                                                                    3.4       0.2         -         0 3      3 9
Foreign Exchange                                                         2.3        0.0      0.1         0.3      2.8
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
3.4       Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project cost estimates are based on surveys of the costs of similar
works, goods and services as of July 1998. Allocations for sub-project grants do not provide for physical
and price contingenicies. All Project costs have been estimated in US dollars given the large differential
in price escalation rates between the local and foreign exchange cost components  All other Project costs
have been estimated with a price contingency of 1.9 percent per year from 1999 to 2002. Small-scale
infrastructure  grants are  estimated  at an  average  of US$58,000  per grant, community-based  social
services at US$15,000 average, and income generation grants at US$16,500 average. The fees of
specialized personiel services are based on current market rates for such services in order to ensure that



Page 34
well qualified personnel are recruited to manage the RSDF Program. The foreign exchange component
of the Project is expected to be minimal. The following estimates have been used in price calculations:
works - 15 percent; social services - 10 percent; income generation activities - 20 percent: local services
- 0 percent; equipment - 80 percent; training costs - 100 percent for studies abroad: and 0 percent for
training in-country.



Page 35
Annex 4
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Economic Assessment
Econonmic Analysis of the Social Development Fund as a Delivery Mechanism. Two alternative designs
for the RSDF were considered and rejected for cost-effectiveness reasons, namely:
Development of several regional Social Development Funds. The choice of a national-level
Social Developmenit Fund over the creation of separate regional Social Development Funds presents
significant economilies of scale, and a heighitenied economic impact for the Loan amount. For example, a
limited regional Social Development Fund would face approximately the same fixed costs as a nationial
Social Dc elopment Fund in terms of core staff and equipment. Economies of scale thirough a central
agency would result in adminiistrationl and overhead costs estimated at under 10 percent, which is
consistenit with best practice for social investmenit funds worldwide. If seven separate regionial Social
Development Funds were created instead (like the EU Regional Developmenit Project), administration
and overhead would rise to at least 15 percent.
Creation of single sector category of sub-projects. The capacity of poor rural communities to
organize, identify their needs and participate in sub-project preparation and implementation is untested in
Romaniia. A highily targeted single sector project would not only restrict the poor in their choice of
solutions to their real iieeds, but the absorptive capacity would in all likelihood imply a much smaller
total project amount, again raising the disadvantage of higher overhead costs.
Economic Analysis Applied to RSDF Sub-Projects. An ex-ante appraisal will be conducted of all RSDF
sub-projects. Both a desk and a field appraisal would cover technical feasibility, economic analysis,
finanicial soundiless, institutionial assessment of executing agencies, community and beneficiary
participation, enviroiinmenital impacts and sustainability. As set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual,
the appraiser would first determine if the proposed sub-project effectively addressed the identified
problem and whethier the best alternative solution was chosen. The following elements would guide the
economic analysis:
*  Cost-benefit analysis would be conducted on sub-projects where benefits could be measured.
Where benefits could not be quantified, cost effectiveness and least-cost analysis would be
applied. As the sub-project selection process would be competitive, sub-projects with a high
level of perceived benefits (quantifiable and not quantifiable) would be given an 'economic
impact' bonus in the scoring system. RSDF would develop ranges for cost per beneficiary
and cost per unit delivered (kilometer of road rehabilitated, meter of well or pipes, attendee at
a traininig program, grant recipient). At first, these ranges would be based on existing
experience in Romania. Over time, RSDF field experience would refine these, with the
anticipation of setting new examples of lowering unit costs by using appropriate technologies
and community managemenit of works.
*  The economic analysis of all sub-projects would be underpinned by strict budget controls on
sub-project costs, based on the establishment of a unit cost data base of major sub-project
inputs. This would be updated at least quarterly to adjust for the unstable price environment
in Romania.
*  Economic analysis would include sustainability, particularly of levels, and institutional



Page 36
arrangements for operations and maintenance required after the investment, according to
each applicable type of sub-project. Statements regarding the financing of all recurrent costs
generated by RSDF investments would be required at the ex-ante appraisal stage.
Economic soundness of RSDF sub-projects will be monitored through: (i) the Management
Information System, which will provide standard reports on the number of beneficiaries, costs
per beneficiary, cost per unit delivered, and  other key  performance indicators; and
(ii) independent technical audits and beneficiary assessments which would be conducted on a
sample of sub-projects ex-post, and among other indicators, would confirm the cost effectiveness,
benefit level, and/or economic impact depending on the type of sub-project, as well as observed
sustaiiiability.



Page 37
Annex 5
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Financial Summary
(US$ million)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
Project Costs
Investmenit Costs        4.2        11.7       13.5         9.9
Recurrenit Costs         0.4         0.5        0.5         0.3       0.3         0.3
Total                  4.6       12.2        14.0        10.2       0.3        0.3
Total (1999-2002)                                             41.0
Financing Sources
(percent of total Project
costs)
IBRD                     4.6%       10.9%      15.6%       17.6%
Govermllenit              2.8%       5.0%       6.0%        5.2%
Recipients               0.7%        2.5%       2.8%        2.1%
CESDF                     3.2%     ll.4&       9.7%
Total                 11.3%      29.8%      34.1%       24.9%
N.B. Totails mai not add due to rounding
Maini assuLmlptiolls:
Fintacial Anailyis of thle RSDF Project
Amount and Availability of Counterpart Funds. The Government counterpart requirement for
the Project over the four-year implementationi period is estimiated at US$7.8 million, or 19 percent of total
Project costs. This contributionl conisists primarily of local taxes and duties estimated at US$6.4 million
equivalenit. The potential impact oni counterpart requirements is mitigated by the incorporation of in-kind
and cash contributionis from commi1uniities and implementing agencies, and is expected to amount to about
US$3.3 million. or about 8 percent of total Project costs. The law establishing the RSDF specifies that
the initial budget of the funid will be provided from the special reserve fund of the Government.
Relation to the Public Investment Program. As part of Project preparation, Romania's current
need for investment in roads and water systems was reviewed. Throughout the country, there are
approximately 10,407 villages with no access to a water supply system and over 7,600 kilometers of
earthen rural roads. While needs vary by county, poorer counties have higher unmet infrastructure needs
in genieral. In 1997 the Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning (MPWTP) allocated US$4.5
million for each county which was enough to resurface three roads and equip five villages with water
supplies and covered less than five percent of the identified needs. The total MPWTP investment
program for 1997-99 is nearly US$1.3 billion.  RSDF sub-projects in small rural infrastructure will
provide an additional US$21.3 million to help reach the critical infrastructure needs of the poorest areas.
By using appropriate technology, community input and reducing the high overheads incurred in road
contracts, RSDF will be able to respond to urgent minor road repairs in poor communities which tend to
be left out of major infrastructure investment programs.



Page 38
Government social spending on education, health and social assistance is US$4.2 billion.
RSDF social service sub-projects would target disadvantaged groups and would not duplicate or
substitute for existing universal programs in these areas.  RSDF sub-projects in social services and
income generation activities would contribute a total of US$3.7 million in additional resources to these
priority groups.
Generation of Recurrent Costs. As an institution, RSDF would generate mininal recurrent cost
implications for the Governmeit. Administrative and start-up expenses for the life of the Project are
estimated to be less thani 10 percent of the sub-project investment portfolio. If the Government and the
donor community determinie that RSDF is an efficient and effective mechianlism, furthier financinlg could
be sought.
Financiail AnatlYsis of RSDF Suhb-Projects
Fianicial analysis would be carried out as part of each sub-project appraisal. At this stage, the
comimiunity and implementing agency (for example, NGOs or Local Authiorities)counterpart contribution
would be confirimied. The expected levels of in-kind or cash contributions would depend upoIl the
category of sub-project, as follows: (a) for the small rural infrastructure category, 10 percent of sub-
project cost (net of taxes), (b) for the social services category ,5 percent of sub-project cost (net of taxes);
and (c) for the income genieratinig category, 15 percent of the sub-project cost (net of taxes).
Recurrent Costs. The potential recurrenit costs generated by sub-projects has been greatly
restricted by the choice of the sub-project menu. Unlike most social investment funids throughout the
world. the RSDF would not finanice the constructionl or upgrading of basic health and education
infrastruicttire.  There are few types of sub-projects which would have significant recurrent cost
imipplicationis:
*  Rural water and sanitation: For new wells and piped water systems in rural areas, an
estimate of the anilnial recurrent cost for operation and maintenance is included as part of sub-
project appraisal. Two options will be used for finanicinlg recurrent costs: (a) financing by
Local Authorities; and (b) community-based organizationls for operations and maintenance.
*  Social services to disadvantaged groups: The RSDF would not finance personnel costs.
This would demonistrate up-front the capacity of NGOs, Local Authorities and other
limplemileniting agencies in financinig recurrent costs.
Estimatinig total recurrent costs is not possible since the Social Development Fund is a demand-
driven mechaniism and final distribution of sub-project types is unknown. For sub-projects which are
carried out by NGOs and community groups, institutional analysis will assess the capacity of these
intermediaries to not only undertake the sub-project, but to ensure sustainabilitythereafter. In the case of
LAs, sub-projects to rehabilitate and upgrade feeder roads will assist in extending the useful lifetime of
roads and hence have a positive impact on fiscal savings in the future. No new roads would be
constructed by the RSDF Program.



Page 39
Annex 6
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
6.1    The RSDF Unit will have responsibility for overall procurement managemelit and will
ensure that procurement procedures. criteria and documentation agreed with the Bank are
satisfactorily complied with. This will include procuremenit under sub-projects implemented by
the Recipients of the Project or their intermediaries, such as NGOs. These responsibilities are
described in Aniex 2 and developed in further detail in the Operational Manual.  Grant
agreements between the RSDF  and the recipients would stipulate these procurement
rL ponsibilities and procedures. The RSDF Unit will be able to COUllt upon the services of an in-
house Procuremilenit Specialist supported by procurement assistants The services of a foreign
procurement expert knowledgeable in Bank procurement processes would be recruited on a
short-terimi basis (2 monthis). He will train RSDF and community/benieficiary procurement staff
as well as assist in the preparation of appropriate procuremenit documentation for RSDF
operations. A Project Launcih Seminar scheduled for January 1999 will include a procurement
workshop for RSDF personiel and beneficiary representatives.
6.2    The procuremenlt methods and arrangemilenits applicable to the various expenditure
categories ulider the Project are summarized in Table 6A and described in more detail in the
RSDF Project Operational Manual. Sub-projects approved for grants under the first APL would
be finanlced in parallel by the World Bank and the CESDF with contributions by the Romanian
Governmenit and the Recipients. Bank Guidelines: Procurenment Under IBRD Loans and IDA
(Credits - August 1996. revised September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines for works and goods),
and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers - January 1997, revised
September 1997 (Consultanit Guidelines), would apply in awarding contracts presented for Bank
finanicinlg. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be adapted to suit the Project needs
for procurement. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the United Nations
Developmenit Businiess In January 1999 and will be updated annually for all outstanding
procuremiienit.



Page 40
Table 6A: Procurement Arrangements - Non ICB/LCB Aggregated as Other
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Consulting
Other      Services      N.B.F. a/   Total
A. First APL
1. Subproject Development Grants (IBRD Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants                   9.7 b/          -           -         9.7
(7.5)                                 (7.5)
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                      0.9 c/          -           -         0.9
(0.7)                                 (0.7)
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                           0.9 dl          -           -         0.9
(0.6)                                 (0.6)
2. Subproject Development Grants (CESDF Financed)
a. Small-scale Infrastructure Project Grants                     -             -        10.6 e/     10.6
b. Community Based Social Services Grants                        -             -         0.9 e/      0.9
c. Income Generation Activity Grants                             -             -         1.0 e/      1.0
3. Training
Training In-country                                              -           0.2f/         -         0.2
(0.2)                  (0.2)
Training Abroad                                                  -           0.1 g/        -         0.1
(0.1)                  (0.1)
4. Consultant and Specialized Services
Consultant Services (Bank-Financed)                              -           0.8 h/        -         0.8
(0.6)                  (0.6)
Consultant Services (CESDF Financed)                             -             -         0.5 i/      0.5
5. Goods
Equipment                                                      0.2 j/          -          -          0.2
(0.2)                                (0.2)
Materials and Supplies                                         0.1 k/          -                     0.1
(0.1)                                 (0.1)
6. Non-Salary Operational Costs                                  0.1 Il          -         0.4 m/      0.5
(0.1)                                 (0.1)
7. RSDF Personnel Salaries                                         -             -         0.7 nl      0.7
8. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                      -             -         0.1 of      0.1
Total                                                           11.8           1.0        14.2        27.0
(9.2)         (0.8)          -       (10.0)
Note:    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Page 41
Footnotes to Table 6A
a/  N.B.F - Non-Bank Financed items.
b/  Sub-projects (US$9.7 million total) consist of minor works contracts of less than US$100,000 per contract
(aggregate US$8 million) awarded on basis of at least 3 quotations from qualified contractors in response to a
written invitation, and goods contracts less than US$75,000 per contract procured through National Shopping
(estimated aggregate US$1.7 million).
c/  Sub-projects consist of services less than US$50,000 per contract (aggregate US$900,000) awarded through a
Competitive Selection process with a Fixed Budget. NGOs may participate on equal basis as any consulting firm.
d/  Sub-projects (US$900,000 total) comprising goods contracts (aggregate US$800,000) procured through National
Shopping, and services (aggregate US$100,000) awarded through a competitive selection process with a Fixed
Budget.
e/  Sub-projects similar to those financed by the Bank supported through parallel financing by CESDF
fl  Local training (travel and per diem) paid directly to trainees according to agreed rates (aggregate US$200,000).
g/  Training abroad (aggregate US$100,000) in training institutions selected according to suitability of training
program. following prior consultation with the Bank.
h/  Consultanit services (US$800,000 total) comprising individual consultants selected on basis of qualifications for
assignment (aggregate US$210.000); consultant firms (aggregate US$500,000) awarded through QCBS; and
auditing services (US$90.000) contracted through Least Cost Selection among qualified firms.
i/  CESDF-financed consultant services (aggregate US$500,000).
j/  International shopping (aggregate US$200,000) contracts below US$200,000.
k/  National Shopping (aggregate US$100,000) contracts below US$25,000
I/  Non-salary expenditures (aggregate US$ 100,000) of sub-pro,ject consultants procured through National Shopping.
m/ Non-salary expenditure items of RSDF procured according to normal Government procedures.
n/  Local personnel, including RSDF Staft: recruited in accordance with normal Romanian procedures.
o/  Government financed front end fee of Bank Loan
6.3     The procurement of sub-projects, goods and services for the first year of the Project
would be undertaken  in accordance with the Procurement Plan shown in Table 6B.  The
Procurement Plan would be updated annually and reflect any changes in the scheduling of the
procuremenit process which could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of
the Project.   The aniual Procurement Plan  would  be agreed  with the Bank prior to  its
implementationi.  The procedures used for each type of procurement would be consistent with
those described in the Loan Agreement and in the PAD for procurement under sub-projects.



Page 42
Table 6B: Procurement Plan - Year 1
Number   Estimated           Method                   Schedule of Key Steps
Description of Packages for Year I                of      Aggregate            of -            Date of       Date of       Date of
Bank-Financed Only                   Packages/    Value          Procurement        Issuance of  Submission    Award of
SubproJects   US$000                            Invitatlons   of proposals   contracts
1 Sub-Project Grants
Year I - First Round of Proposals:
a.   Small-Scale Infrastructure Sub-projects        20                                            Feb-99        Apr-99        May-99
(i) minor works                                              $812         minor works
(ii) goods                                                   $348       national shopping
b.   Community Based Social Services                 5          $75      competitive selection   Feb-99         Apr-99        May-99
c.   Income Generation Sub-projects                  5                                           Feb-99         Apr-99        May-99
(i) goods                                                    $66        national shopping
(ii) services                                                 $17     competitive selection
Year I - Second Round of Proposals:
a.   Small-Scale Infrastructure Sub-projects        25                                           Sep-99         Nov-99        Dec-99
(i) minor works                                             $1,015        minor works
(ii) goods                                                   $435       national shopping
b.   Community Based Social Services                10          $150    competitive selection    Sep-99         Nov-99        Dec-99
c.   Income Generation Sub-projects                 10                                           Sep-99         Nov-99        Dec-99
(i) goods                                                    $132      national shopping
(ii) services                                                 $33     competitive selection
2 Goods for RSDF
a.    Equipment                                      2          $210    international shopping    Feb-99        Mar-99        Apr-99
b.   Materials and Supplies                       various       $65       national shopping     as needed                    as needed
3 Consultant Services for RSDF
a.   Individual consultants                       various       $100       qualffications for     Jan-99        Mar-99        Apr-99
assignment          Jn9             a-9         Ar9
b    Local firms (promotion, facilitation,
appraisal, supervision of subprojects)      various       $240            QCBS              Jan-99        Mar-99        Apr-99
c.   Auditing                                        1          $30      least cost selection     Oct-99        Nov-99        Dec-99
4 Training
a.   In-country training                          various       $159       SDF administered                                   Mar-99
b.    Training abroad                             various        $72      suitability of training  Feb-99                     Apr-99
programs
5 RSDF Non-Salary Operational Costs                 various        $30       national shopping
TOTAL COST OF BANK-FINANCED ITEMS ONLY (Year 1)                $3,989
6.4    Procurement under Demand-Driven Sub-Projects. The nature and composition of
sub-projects financed under the Project is described in Annex 2. Because of the parallel
financinig arrangements, Bank-financed sub-projects would be distinguished from those financed
by CESDF which will administer their procurement and disbursement independently. All sub-
projects are demand-driven initiatives. Poor rural communities throughout Romania are expected
to submit proposals for grant funding using resources provided under the Project. Sub-projects
would consist of proposals for: (a) small-scale infrastructure/minor works sub-projects (Bank
aggregate US$9.7 million equivalent; CESDF US$10.6 million); (b) community-based social
services sub-projects (Bank aggregate US$0.9 million equivalent; CESDF US$0.9 million), and
(c) income generating activities (Bank aggregate US$0.9 million equivalent; CESDF US$1.0
million). In the interest of certain gpecific social objectives of the Project, it may be desirable to
call for the participation of local communities and NGOs, increase the utilization of local know-
how and employ labor-intensive and other appropriate technologies. The sub-projects proposed
for RSDF funding with such anticipated needs would to required to specify where and with what



Page 43
methods the subproject would be implemented. About 1,000 sub-project proposals are expected
to be received and processed by the RSDF Unit during Project implementation. Of the proposals
received, about 500 sub-projects are expected to be approved for grant funding (comprising 300
infrastructure grants, 100 social services grants and 100 income generation grants). The criteria
for the preparation, appraisal and approval of these sub-project grants by the RSDF are described
in Annex 2. The grant amounts would range between US$5,000 to US$75,000 (in exceptional
cases, up to US$100,000 maximum). Sub-project proposals may include minor works, small
quantities of goods, minor technical expertise/services, or any combination of these elements.
The composition, dispersed origin and implementation timing of the approved sub-projects do not
make it feasible or practical to aggregate or consolidate the small procurement items in these
grants into large packages suitable either for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) by a centralized procurement unit. Minor works may be procured
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The contract will be
awarded on the basis of price as long as the lowest priced bidder has the capacity and resources
to complete the contract. Goods packages may be procured through National Shopping
procedures and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliers
in response to a written invitation. In exceptional cases, goods up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed five percent of the total amount allocated for grants may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured through direct contracting procedures. Minor services contracts under
sub-projects would be procured using competitive selection procedures with a Fixed Budget.
Sample bidding documents developed in the ECA Region would be adapted for these
procurement procedures. These procurement procedures for sub-projects are described in detail
in the Operational Manual, and will be set forth in the Grant Agreements between the RSDF and
the Recipients. Similar procurement arrangements are expected for the CESDF financed sub-
projects.
6.5    Goods. All goods procured for the RSDF Unit and used for its operations would be
financed by the Bank. These items consist of a limited quantity of office equipment,
computer/MIS hardware and off-the- shelf software, a vehicle, and miscellaneous supplies and
materials for the operations of the RSDF Unit. Such procurement would be undertaken as
follows: (a) International Shopping for equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies packages
estimated at less than US$200,000 (aggregate US$200,000) based on quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers from two different countries; and (b) National Shopping (aggregate
US$200,000) for materials (including training materials for local training activities), supplies of
less than US$75,000 per package and non-salary operational expenditure items required by
RSDF consultant in connection with their facilitation, appraisal and supervision of sub-projects
financed by the Bank.
6.6    Training and Consultant/Specialized Services.
a. Training: Training contracts under the capacity building initiatives of the Project financed by
the Bank would be procured in accordance with procedures stipulated in the Bank Consultant
Guidelines. Training would consist of:
(i) in-country training/seminars for community level capacity building, for which local
travel and subsistence expenses would be paid directly to individual trainees in
accordance with the rates agreed with the Bank; and
(ii) training abroad in institutions selected according to the suitability of their training
programs for the Project needs and with prior consultation of the Bank. These
contracts include the training fees, travel and associated costs, subsistence and



Page 44
training materials for the trainees.
b. Consultant Services: Project requirements for specialist services are estimated at US$1.3
million in the aggregate. Of this total, contracts estimated at US$800,000 equivalent would
be financed by the Bank, and will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Consultant
Guidelines. The rest (US$500,000) would be financed in parallel by CESDF and procured
following arrangements agreed between CESDF and the Government.  Bank-financed
consultant services consist of expertise to help build the institutional capacity of the RSDF
and recipients for Project management and implementation, beneficiary assessment,
community development; RSDF promotion; facilitation and appraisal of sub-projects, and
supervision of sub-projects under implementation. To the extent feasible and practical, these
consulting services would be consolidated into larger contracts suitable for award to qualified
firms and NGOs. This is especially true for the supervision of small works sub-projects in
numerous communities and facilitation of poor communities. The geographic spread of these
services, the need for familiarity with local conditions, language and traditions make it
unlikely that foreign consultants would be interested or meet these requirements. These
consulting packages would be below US$200,000 each and may be contracted to qualified
local firms using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process described in the
Guidelines.  NGOs are expected to express interest in assisting in Project/Program
management and implementation. In such cases, NGOS would compete on equal basis as
any consulting firm, and the assignment would be awarded on a QCBS procedure in
accordance with the Bank Consultant Guidelines.  The contract for independent audit
services would be awarded to a firm on the basis of Least Cost Selection. In about one third
of the cases (aggregate US$210,000), the required expertise would be best suited to
individual consultants   These individuals would be selected on the basis of their
Qualifications for the Assignment using at least three CVs as comparisons. The foreign
procurement consultant would also be selected in this manner.  Before the issuance to
consultants of any requests for proposals, the RSDF Unit would furnish the proposed plan for
the selection of consultants under the Project to the Bank for its review and approval.
6.7    Salary and Other Non-Salary Operational Costs. Contracts for the RSDF personilel,
the RSDF Steering Committee, and other non-salary expenditure items and supplies required by
RSDF and its consultants in carrying out their facilitation, appraisal and supervision of CESDF-
financed sub-projects would be Government financed and procured through regular Goverinenit
procedures.
6.8    Prior Bank review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are made
on Bank-financed items, for the following procurement actions:
a. Sub-project grants: the first three grants awarded by RSDF to recipients in each of the three
categories of sub-projects (small infrastructure, social services, income generation). Under
these sub-projects, the Bank will also conduct a prior review of the following contracts
procured by the grant recipients;
(i) minor works: (a) the first three contracts; and (b) any works contracts abov,e
US$100,000.
(ii) goods: (a) the first three contracts; (b) any goods contracts above US$75,000 per
contract; and (c) goods procured through direct contracting; and
(iii)consultant services: the first three contracts.



Page 45
b. Procurement by the RSDF:
(i) training: the proposed annual spending program for local and foreign training.
(ii) consultant services: (a) all terms of reference (TORs) for the competitive selection of
individual consultants; (b)all contracts with firms of US$100,000 and above; (c)all
contracts with individuals of US$50,000 and above; and (d) the contract for the provision
of audit services selected in accordance with Least Cost selection method.
(iii)goods: (a) the first contract procured through International Shopping; and (b) the first
contract procured through National Shopping.
6.9    Ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by Bank supervision missions.
Table 6C summarizes applicable procurement procedures and review requirements. Ex-post
reviews on a random basis would also be undertaken by the RSDF Unit and the Bank, of the
procurement carried out by the Recipients in the process of implementing their sub-projects.



Page 46
Table 6C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table 6C-1: Summary of Procurement Activities
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure              Contract Value               Procurement                          Prior Review
Category                 (Threshold)                   Method                        Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
(US$-000)                                                       (USs '000)
I Bank-Financed Sub-projects              11,448
(a) Small-scale infrastructure          (100)         Minor works (at least 3 quotations from    first 3 contracts and any contract
local contractors based on witten    above US$100,000
request)
$180
(b) Goods                                (75)         National Shopping                    first 3 contracts and any contract
above US$75,000
$75
(none)       Direct Contracting                    all contracts
$570
(c) Services                           (none)        Competiive selection with fixed budget   first 3 contracts
$45
2 Goods for RSDF                            210         Intemational Shopping                 first contract
(200)                                                           $100
65          National shopping                     first contract
(75)                                                            $50
3 Consultant Services
(a) Consulting Firms                     482         QCBS                                  Contracts above US$100,000
(none)                                                           $300
(b) Individual Consultants               207         Competitive selection based on        All TORs and contracts above
consultant qualifications (comparison of   US$50,000
at least 3 CVs)
(50)                                                            $207
(c) Auditing services                    90          Least cost selection                  One contract
$9o
4 Training
(a) In-country seminars                  159          Program administered by RSDF                       $159
(none)
(b) Study tours                          72          With prior consuitation of the Bank,                 $72
institutions selected according to
suitability of training programs
(none)
5  Non-salary operational costs             122         National shopping                     none
related to facilitation, appralsal
and supervision of subprojects
financed by the Bank
(none)                                                            $0
6 Non-salary operational costs of RSDF      415         Non-Bank financed                     none
$0
7 RSOF Personnel                            707         Non-Bank financed                     none
$0
8 Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                100         Non-Bank financed                     none
$0
Total Value of Contracts Subject to Prior Review                    $1,848



Page 47
Table 6C-2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
As stated above, the RSDF Unit will have the responsibility for ensuring that procurement procedures as
established in the Loan Agreement and Operational Manual, agreed with the Bank, are followed. The RSDF
Secretariat will be able to rely on the services of an in-house procurement specialist supported by procurement
assistants. These procurement staff will participate in the Project Launch Workshop, receive dedicated
procurement training, and will benefit from on-the-job training of a foreign expert contracted on a short-term
basis. This consultant will also provide procurement training to the general community and grant recipients.
Country Procurement Assessment Report has not been prepared for Romania.   Draft bidding documents are
A CPAR is under preparation.                                            prepared for tihe first year of
implementations however the
specific bidding packages
have not yet beeni reviewed or
cleared.
Table 6C-3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of      Estinated date of        Indicate if there is    Domestic        Domestic
Project Launch         publication of General    procuremiienit subject to   Preference for   Preference
Workshop:              Procurement Notice:      mandatory SPN in        Goods:          for Works.
Development Business:                   if
applicable:
January 1999           January 1999            None                     None            None
Retroactive Financing: No retroactive financinig   Advance procurement: Procuremenit will be initiated, but
is anticipated.                               contracts will not be awarded prior to Credit efifectiveniess.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The RSDF will either moniitor or condtict all procureienit
activities under the Project. The Agents selected to implement sub-projects would be responsible tor the
procurement of miiior works, goods and services contracts subject the granit agreemenit signed by the
Implementing Agent and RSDF. The procurement procedures included in the grant agreemlent muist I;ollow the
provisions of the Operational Manual. The RSDF would utx; ierponsible for goods and( services conitr-aicts
related to its institutional capacity buiidiiig, A procureimnent ma:nagement module will be hicilided il the MIS
of the RSDF.
Co-financing: It is expected that CESDF will provide parallel finanicing for sub-projecl implmenllation. [Ihc
sub-projects will be selected in accordance with the agreed procedures with the l3ank. '[he contracts awarded
to contractors under the sub-projects will be selected in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Table 6C-4: Training, Information and Development on Procurcimicint
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible lor tile procurement in the
Project:
Name: Leonardo Concepcion    Ext. 32859
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The Project is task miianaged from the
field wiiclh will greatly facilitate the review of sub-project proposals and TORs. FIurthier review delegationi to
the field will be evaluated as the procurement review capacity of the Romania Resident Mission increases.



Page 48
Disbursement
6.10   The proceeds of the First APL would be disbursed in accordance with procedures
described in the Bank's "Disbursement Handbook". The First API, for US$10.0 million is
expected to be disbursed over a period of three years (1999-2001). Table 6D below shows
disbursement accounts and the respective shares of the finaniciers. Table 6E shows the estimated
allocation of the Bank Loan, based on the assumption of effectiveness of the Bank Loan by
January 1999. Table 6F shows the estimated disbursements and Governmilenit cash flow by
semester.
Table 6D: Disbursement Accounts (APLI) by Financier
(US$ million)
Counmci of
The Govemment    Recipients    The World Bank   Europe Fund     Intel       Outies &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   #    Amount   %           Taces
A. First APL
1. Subproject Development Grants (I1RD Financedl
a. Small-scale Infrastludure Grants                   14    139      09      90     75    771                      97    359        14
bCnmmn'y Based Socal SeMrcs Grants                    01    146      0 0     4 7    0 7    807                     09     33       01
c. Income Generation Achedy Grants                    0 1    13 3    0.l   13 0     0 6    73 7                    0 9     3 2      01
Subtotal Subproject Developmenl Grants /IBRD Financed)  1.6   13 9     1 0     8 9    a 8    77 1      -       -    11 4    42 4     1 6
2. Subproject Devetlopment Grants (CESDF Financed)
a Small-scalenrastmrcureGmnls                         1.5   139      10      90                     8 2    771    106    394       ls
b Connun6B essed oasl SMS¶ rsGrants                   0.1   14 6     0 0     4.7                    0 7    80 7    0 9     3 3     0 1
C. Income G.nerlion Acdivily Grants                   01    13.3     0 1    13 0      -             0.1   73.7    1.0    3.5        0 1
Subtotal Subprojact Development Grants (CESDF Financed)  1 7    13 9   1A1    9.0                    9.6   77.1   12 5    46 2       1 7
3. Consuttnt Services and Training (Bank-Financed)
a. Consulant S rvices for Bank-Financed Subprojcts    0.1   18 0                     0.3   82 0      -       -    04       1.6     01
b. Consuan Serces and Tramnng for RSOF                0.1    158         __          05    942       -             0.6    2.2      0.1
Subltota Consultanl Services and Training (Bank-Financed)  0 2    16,7  0-8    833                             -     1 0    3 7      0 2
4. Consultant Services for CESOF Financed Subprojects   0 1    189-                                  0 4    82 0     0 5    1 7      0 I
8. Goods                                                0 0    18 1                   0 2    61l9      -       -    0.3     1 0      0 0
8. Non4alary Operational Costs                          04    81.4       -      -    01    186                       05     20       01
7 R5DF Personnel salaries                               0.7  100.0              -           -          -             07     26       0 2
S. Front'end Fee on fank Loan                           0 1   100.0      -      -       -                            0 I    0 4
Total                                                 49    18.1    2.1    7.9   10.0   37.0   100    370    270   1000             3.9
Notc:  \m1oulms ma)y lot add up to exact to:.is due to rounding.
6.11    Special Account.   To  facilitate  disbursements  against eligible  expenditures, tlhe
Govermneilt would establisih in a commercial bank a Special Account (SA). The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be US$2.0 million based on the fact that this loan of
UJS$10 millioni is the first phase of a $20 million overall loan for the Project.  lhis SA will be
operated by the RS)F inistitutioni under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Upon
effectiveness, thc Bank would deposit an initial authorized allocation of up to US$ 1.0 million to
a Special Account, opened at a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank.  Once total
disbursemenis fromil the Loan account have reached an aggregate amount of US$ 5.0 million, tile
borrower may request an additional US$ 1.0 million to be deposited to the Special Account.
Replenishmileint applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully documented, ilidinig
bank statement and reconciliation statement, except for expenditures which may be clained on
the basis of Statemenits of Expenditure (SOEs). The Special Account would be audited aniually
by indepeindenit auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Page 49
6.12.  Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The following SOE thresholds apply:
(i)  Sub-projects:                   Contracts amounting to less than US$300,000 equivalent,
(ii)  Consulting services - firms:   Contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent,
(iii) Consulting services - individuals:  Contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent,
(iv) Goods and training:             All contracts.
All supporting documents would be retained by RSDF for a minimum period of two
years and made available to the external auditors as well as the Bank staff during supervision
missions.
6.13.  Project Account. The borrower will provide its contribution throughi the GSC. The
yearly contribution will be based on the planned disbursements communicated by the RSDF
Steering Committee. The RSDF would request regular payments into its own local currenicy
accounts.
6.14.  Accounts and Audits. In accordance with the provisions of OP/BP 10.02, accounting,
procurement, disbursement and audit are linked for effective financial management, so that the
Bank can receive accurate and timely informationi on the Project and, at the same time, reduce
administrative burden and ensure better client services.  The RSDF would be staffed with
qualified accountants, procurement officers and MIS specialists to ensure accountability for
Project funds, maintain timely records, maintain internal controls, report on the use of funds,
facilitate verification of reports by independent auditors, and provide information to the Bank as
required. Accounting and MIS staff have been selected and hired to set up an accounting system,
establish a chart of accounts and prepare the outline of financial reports.
6.15   The Special Account as well as the Project Account will be audited in accordance with
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. RSDF will provide the Bank, withinl six montils of the end of each
Government fiscal year, with: (a) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (b) an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and an audit report
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request. RSDF shall: (i) have the funds'
flow system for the Project evaluated by an appropriate auditing body acceptable to the Bank not
later than three months after the first disbursement from the Bank Loan: (ii) furnish to the Bank
an evaluation report by the auditing body withinl one month after its completion; and (c) review
withi the Bank the evaluation report within one month of the report's submission to the Bank.
RSDF will, thereafter, take the necessary measures to ensure the efficient flow of funds for the
Project taking into account the Bank's views on the matter. With respect to expenditures for
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of SOEs, RSDF will maintain
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made. RSDF will ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are included in the annual audit and that the
audit report contains a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during
each fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upoIn to support the related withdrawals.  RSDF will enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records



Page 50
Table 6E: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                       Amount ir          Finanicinig Percentage
US Dollars
1. Sub-Projects                                          8,000,000         82% of amount
disbursed under
grant agreements
2. Goods for the RSDF                                     200,000           100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and
82% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Consultants' services including audits and             800,000                  100%
training
4. Operating costs of consultants for sub-project          100,000                  82%
facilitation, appraisal and supervision of
Bank-financed sub-project grants
5. Unallocated                                            900,000
Total                                               10,000,000
Table 6F: Disbursements by Semester and Government Cash Flow
(US$ million)
Financing Available
Council          Costs to
The      of               be
World  Europe           Financed  The Government
Recipients   Bank    Fund            Project   Cash   Cumulative
Semester    Amount  Amount Amount  Total    Costs    Flow   Cash Flow
1             0.1     0.9      0.7     1.7       2.3    -0.6        -0.6
2             0.1     0.9      0.7     1.7       2.2    -0.5        -1.0
3             0.5     2.2      2.3     5.1       6.1    -1.0        -2.1
4             0.5     2.2      2.3     5.1       6.1    -1.0        -3.1
5             0.4     1.9      2.0     4.3       5.2    -0.9        -4.0
6             0.4     1.9      2.0     4.3       5.2    -0.9        -4.9
7               -       -        -       -         -       -        -4.9
8               -       -        -       -         -       -        -4.9
Total          2.1    10.0    10.0    22.1       27.0    -4.9         -4.9



Page 51
Annex 7
Social Development Fund Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
115.6
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
T ime taken to prepare the Project (montlhs)
First Bank missioni (identificationi)           11/03/1997            11/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     01/10/1998           06/06/1998
Negotiations                                    02/20/1998             11/09/98
Planiled Board Date                             01/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/29/1999
Prepared by: RSDF Working Group and Bank
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant, USAID contribution
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                        Specialty
Ana Maria Sandi               Social Sector Project Officer
Steen Jorgenseni              Social Funds Specialist
Julia van Domelen             Social Funds Specialist
Alexander Marc                Social Funds Specialist
Sonyia Carvalho               Social Funds Specialist
Francois Ettori              Economist
Leonardo M. Concepcion       Implementation/Procurement
Specialist
Rohit Mehta                  Disbursement Specialist
Heiiz Weindler               Disbursement Specialist
Varadarajan Atur              Financial Management Specialist
Roberto Tarallo              Financial Management Specialist
Aly Abu-Akeel                Counsel
Zoe Kololou                   Counsel
Ross Pavis                   Program Assistant
Kari Hurt                    Operations Assistant
Judith De Costa              Operations Assistant
Mariana Doina Moarcas        Operations Assistant
Imelda Mueller               Team Assistant



Page 52
Annex 8
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan, February 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Romania: Poverty and Social Policy, Mansoora Rashid (coordinator), 1996.
Summary: Technical Assistance Funding Proposal for Japan PHRD Fund,
Ana Maria nSadi. October 1996.
SDF: Project Concept Document, Ana Maria Sandi, July 1997.
SDF. Project Information Document, Ana Maria Sandi, October 1997.
Romania: SDF Project - Minutes of the Project Concept Review Meeting, October 1997.
C. Other
SDF: Back-to-office report on the main findings of the field trip in Iasi county: potential
target groups and preliminary needs assessment, SDF Working Group, June 1997.
SDF: Back-to-office report on the main findings of the field trip in Tulcea county: potential
target groups and preliminary needs assessment, SDF Working Group, July 1997.
SDF: Social Services Sub-projects (Discussion Paper), C'ristina Vladu,
August 1997.
SDF: Income-Generating Activities (Discussion Paper), Despina Pascal, August 1997.
SDF: Small Infrastructure Sub-projects (Discussion Paper), Radu Vacareanu, August, 1997.
SDF: Poverty Targeting Strategy (Discussion Paper), Maria Sandor, August 1997.
SDF Institutional Arrangements Alternatives: Advantages and Disadvantages (Discussion
Paper), Despina Fruth Oprisan, Horatiu Dun7i/ru, September 1997.
Legal Approach for Setting Up the Social Development Fund (Discussion Paper), Despina
Fruth Oprisan, Horatiu Dumitru, October 1997.
Poverty Diagnosis and Community Development Opportunities in the Counties of Alba,
Botosani, Calarasi, Salj, Tulcea and Vaslui. Methodological Report on Evaluation Criteria,
Poverty Quantification and Community Related Issues, AlfJed Bulai, September 1997.
Poverty Diagnosis and Community Development Opportunities in the Counties of Alba,
Botosani, Calarasi, Salaj, Tulcea and Vaslui: Synthetic Report, Alfred Bulai, October 1997
Evaluation Reports: Counties of Alba, Botosani, Calarasi, Salaj, Tulcea, Vaslui, Alfred
Bulai, October 1997
Romanian Legislative Framework: Potential Barriers to SDF Implementation, (Discussion
Paper), Despina Fruth Oprisan, Horatiu Dumiiru, December 1997.
Eligibility Criteria for Disadvantaged Groups Covered by the Social Services System,Alfred
Bulai, January 1998.
Community Poverty and Disadvantaged Groups: Study on SDF Poverty Targeting
Mechanisms, Dumiiru Sandu, January 1998
Draft Operational Manual, SDF Working Group, January 1998.



Page 53
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Dif ferenace between
expected
Original Amoun,  in "5  Millions                  arnd actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                  IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Uridisbursed       Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 40
Active Loans
RO-PE-34213   1BRD42580    1998   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                 GENERAL CADASTRE                  25.50        0.00             0.00         25.,0         0.00       0.00
RO-PE-44614   IBRD42130    1998   ROMANIA                               SCHOOLS REHABILITATI              70.00        0.00             0.00         69.99         4.49       0.00
RO-PE-55495   IBRD43620    1998   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                 CHILD WELFARE REFORM               5.00        0.00             0.00          '.00          .22       0.00
RO-PE-8788    IBRD43190    1998   GENERAL INSPECTORAT OF CO             TELECOMMUNICATION                 30.00        0.00             0.00         30.00         0.00       0.00
RO-PE-39250   IBRD41780    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                 SECOND ROADS                     150.00        0.00             0.00        129.43        -4.81       0.00
RO-PE-8778    IBRD40790    1997   ROMANIA                               BUCHAREST WATER SUPP              25.00        0.00             0.00         21.H8        11.99       0.00
RO-PE-8793    IBRD40960    1997   ROMANIA                               HIGHER EDUCATION                  50.00        0.00             0.00         46.50        38.27       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41760    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                 ASAL                             280.00        0.00             0.00         80.00       150.00       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41761    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                 ASAL                              70.00        0.00             0.00         tS.01       150.00       0.00
RO-PE-36013   IBRD39760    1996   SNCFR                                 RAILWAY                          120.00        0.00             0.00        109Io.        51.05       0.00
RO-PE-8794    IBRD39360    1996   RENEL                                 POWER SECTOR REHAB.              110.00        0.00             0.00        102.f9        e7.03       0.00
RO-PE-8776    IBRD38490    1995                                         EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTE              55.40        0.00             0.00         52.10        38.61       0.00
RO-PE-8774    IBRD37350    1994   GOVT. OF ROMANIA                      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPME             175.00        0.00             0.00        121.53       118.20    5.38
RO-PE-8777    IBRD37230    1994   Government of Romania                 PETROLEUM SECTOR REH             175.60        0.00             0.00        124 23       115.3H       0.00
RO-PE-8784    IBRD37240    1994   REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA                   EDUCATION                         50.00        0.00             0.00          h.95         7.mO       0.00
RO-PE-8771    IBRD35930    1993   MOT                                   TRANSPORT                        120.00        0.00             0.00            .53        -.91       0.00
RO-PE-8759    IBRD34090    1992   MOF                                   HEALTH SERVICES REHA             150.00        0.00             0.00         31.07        11.02      31.02
Total                                                                                                  1,6l1.50        0.00             0.00      1,04.195       7989.4      e4.40
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  608.79             3,091.39            3,700.18
of which has been repaid:                   18.75            2,250.09            2,268.84
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,642.7',              945.90            2,488.65
Amount sold                                         0.00               19.78                19.78
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                19.78               19.78
Total Undisbursed                 :            1,047.75                 0.00            1,017.75
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Reilew of P.rttIlio pertormance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements irn Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 54
Annex 9a
Romania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Aug-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
I |FC                             I FC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
-1992                   Alcatel                  0.00    0.00     .69    0.00    0.00    0.00       .69    0.00
1994/98                Romlease                 3.96     .75    0.00    0.00    3.96       .75    0.00    0.00
1996                   Danube Fund              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       .80    0.00    0.00
1997                   Efes Brewery            12.13    0.00    5.00    8.00      5.26    0.00     1.14    3.47
1997                   Mobil Rom               40.00    0.00    10.00  160.00   28.00    0.00    10.00   112.00
1998                   Banc Post                0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   Bilstein Compa           2.77    0.00     0.00    2.77     1.61    0.00    0.00      1.61
1998                   Demir Romania            0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   FCR Fund                 0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   Small Bus. Loan          5.00      .02    0.00    0.00     1.00     .02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    63.86   15.97   25.69   170.77   39.83    11.57    11.83   117.08
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   DEMIR ROMANIA            5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                   GARANTA                  0.00     .60    0.00    0.00
1998                   KRUPP COMPA              7.78    0.00    0.00    3.34
1998                   MOBIL ROM BLINC          0.00    0.00    0.00   40.00
1997                   RAMBOX                   2.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           14.78    2.60    0.00   43.34



Page 55
Romania at a glance                                                               12/10/98
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central   middle-
Romania       Asia  income        Development dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       22.5       476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,420     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      32.0     1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%0) -.5                                              0 2       1.2      GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                        0.0       0.5       1.3     per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  22
Urban population (% of total population)               57         67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               22         25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              6          .         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                      84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                        19
Gross prirary enrollment (% of school-age population)  94         92       111          - ----Romania
Male                                                                     116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                .          .       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                      ..      33 1      32.1
Gross domestic investmentGDP                 41.4     34 4      24.7      21.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              .      20 1      28.4      29.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     .      38 1      16.3      14.5
Gross national savings/GDP                     .      37 1      17 1      14.6
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       ..      -7 8       -7.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                               .            11        1.2     Sn                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                           .      25 1      32.6
Total debt service/exports                                      12 6      15.7
Present value of debtGDP                                ..      23.8
Present value of debtexports                   ..        .      80.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4 0      -2.7      3.9      -6.6        -. <-Romania
GNP per capita                      3.3      -2.8      1.9      -8.9        ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       1.7      4.8       2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         lx
Agriculture                                              .      22.8      22.8    10
Industry                                                 .      36.9      38.7      °
Manufacturing                                 ,        ,.                        -10i         ,           9
Services                                                 .      40.4      38.5    20
Private consumption                             .    58.3       72.1      75.4    -30
General government consumption                  .      3.6      11.6      10.1             _-     GDI    -4-GDP
Imports of goods and services                   .     16.4      36.7      36.7
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     .      1.1      -2.4       2.2    30
Industry                                       ..    -5.6        6.8      -5.0    20
Manufacturing                                                              - ,.   o 
Services                                        .     -2.7      -6.1     -14.0      0
-10    92    93   94   955    9
Private consumption                             .      0.8      10.0      -6.2   -20
General government consumption                  .      4.4      -7.5     -10.6   -30
Gross domestic investment                       .     -5.0     -13.3     -14.5    so
Imports of goods and services                 ..       2.0      -1.2      -4.6             -Exports    --m-Imports
Gross national product                       4.0      -3.0       1.6      -9.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-~~:.   ~     Page 56
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1998       1997      Inflation (/.)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                               D
Consumer prices                                            1 0       38.8     154.8     3D
Implicit GDP deflator                            1.3       0.2       43.8     146.8    200
Government finance                                                                      100
(%/ of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0
Current revenue                                          49.7        29.9      30.4               92    90    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                    30.1        1.6       1.1              --~GDP deflator  -Q-O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..      11.8       -3.9      -3.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..   9.763       8,085     8,431      14.000
Textiles                                         .         ..     2,238     2,485      12.000
Metals                                           .         ..     1,268     1,556      10.000
Manufactures                                    ..     7,234      2,298     2,411      9.000
Total irn, orts (cif)                              .    8,083      11,435    11,280      6.000
Food                                             .      152         870       694       40      ~        ii
Fuel and energy                                        404        230       211        2000
Capital goods                                   ..     2,127      2,519     1,171
1 92 93   94   95   96 97
Export price index (1995=100)                                        103        105
Import price index (1995=100)                                .       103        105                aEfxports      * Imports
Terms of trade (I1995= 100)                                  .        100       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986      11996      '1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%
Exports of goods and services                  6,642   10,444      9,648      9,853      0 
Imports of goods and services                  6,540    8,507      12,503    12,448     -1
Resource balance                                 102    1937       -2,855    -2,595     -2
.3
Net income                                      -118     -542        -309      -322     -
Net current transfers                             ..        0        593       57       -o                        I
Current account balance                          -16    1,395      -2,571    -2.338     .6.
Financing items (net)                           -105     -782       2,788     4,003     .8
Changes in net reserves                          121     -613        -217    -1,665     -9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                              3,144     4,671
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                             .    3,276.7   7,787.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             525    6,983       8,291    10,442
IBRD                                          144    1,836       1,009      1,305                   G:949       A. 1.305
IDA                                             0         0          0         0
Total debt service                                           .      1,230     1,582                                       :4
IBRD                                            2       365         63        99
IDA                                             0         0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0         0        105       120
Official creditors                               .        .      1,718       598         F~ 4.201                      0: 2,274
Private creditors                                         .      2,008       698
Foreign direct investment                        .                 263      1,224
Portfolio equity                                0   -     0         11       142                               E. 1,069
World Bank program
Commitments                                   110         0        475       620         BRiBRE - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 124         9        227       399      B  IA      0 - Other multilaterai    F - Private
Principal repayments                            0       200          0        28      C - IMF                         G - Short-terml
Netflows                                      124      -192        227       371
Interest payments                               2       164         63        70
Net transfers                                 123      -356        164       301
Development Economics                                                                                                      12110198
'u-' ~~~~~~~  M11 



Mr.Johannes Linn                                                Annex 11
Vice President
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
November   1998
Re:   Social Development Fund Program, Romania
Letter of Development Program
1.    This Letter of Development Program  sets out the main features of the
Govern.ment of Romania Social Development Fund (SDF) Program. The Program is
consistent with the Poverty Alleviation  Strategy, developed by the National
Commission of Poverty Alleviation, and launched on October 18, 1998. The strategy
attaches a significant importance to poverty alleviation through community-driven
development. which is the main goal of the SDF Program.
Long-term Goals of the Program
2.    The two-long terrns goals of the Program are: (i) to improve the livelihood of
project beneficiaries in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups and (ii) to
increase the local organisational and self-help capacity. The Government has supported
the establishment of a Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF) as a tool to address
povertv at the community level. To this effect, a law was submitted to the Parliament,
which became effective on June 30, 1998. Through the RSDF, poor communities will
have the possibility to express their demands and to participate in the design and
implementation of demand-driven sub-projects. Through a "leaming by doing" process,
communities will not only satisfy specific needs, but will also build their ability to
identify and prioritise their demands, mobilise and manage resources to design,
implement and operate their own projects. The goals over the four-year time period
(1999-2002) are to finance about 1200 sub-projects, improving the infrastructure in
about 660 poor rural communities, developing about 270 income generating activities in
poor communities, and improving the quality of services offered to disadvantaged
groups scattered throughout in the country (about 270 social services offered).
3     In order to achieve the above challenging goals, the Government hereby requests
the World Bank's assistance for part financing the Program, estimated at US$ 41,5
million , through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) amounting of about US$ 20
million, granted in two phases, from which the first phase will be financed by an IBRD
loan of US$ 10 million.
The Phases of the Program
4.     The first loan will be used for financing the Program Initiation Phase. The
specific objectives of the first Phase are: to establish the capacity to implement, monitor
and evaluate the program and to initiate the financing of community-based sub-projects.



The Program Initiation Phase will initiate implementation by: (i) training facilitators in
community development and appropriate technologies; developing and implementing
the promotion strategy; establishing the RSDF administrative infirastructure; training
appraisers and supervisors; and creating a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to
analyse the medium-term outcomes of the program; and (ii) initiating the capacity
building to poor rural communities in the poorest counties; selecting and financing the
first set of sub-projects. Projects to be funded under the programme include small rural
infrastructure, income generating activities, and social service delivery.
5     The second loan will used for financing the Program Development Phase. The
specific objectives of this second Phase are: to improve the effectiveness of financing
sub-projects by using the feedback information through the monitoring process and to
continue financing of community-based sub-projects. The Program development Phase
will: (i) continue the capacity building of poor rural communities; (ii) implement a
promotion and communication campaign based upon the results of the evaluation of the
first phase carnpaign; and (iii) increase the scope and number of community sub-
projects. The second phase will make use of monitoring and evaluation carried out
during the Program Initiation Phase on the sub-projects cost-effectiveness and
community capacity building.
Program Performance Indicators
6.    The key envisaged program outputs are: a significant numbers of poor rural
communities get organised and have developed pro-active attitudes; an increased
number of Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) have the capacity to, and are
oriented towards delivery of community-based social services; poor rural com.munities
benefit from improvements in infrastructure; income generating activities are provided
in poor communities.
7.    The Program performance will be monitored by four types of indicators of
performance: (i) input indicators (such as number of facilitators trained, number of
appraisers and supervisors trained); (ii) process indicators (such as number of
communities facilitated, number of sub-project applications registered, number of sub-
projects appraised in the field, number of day spent on field appraisal,supervision of
sub-projects which address the issues of poor women); (iii) output indicators (such as
number of cornmunity-based organizations established, number of roads rehabilitated,
number of water supply connections made, number of new income generating activities
developed, number cf community-based social services provided); and (iv) impact
indicators (such as nuw. ber of beneficiaries served, attitude of beneficiaires, capacity of
local authorities to adt& ;t:s community problems, capacity of communities to deal with
contractors, and other &dnors financial contributions to RSDF).
Triggers for moving to the second loan
8.    Five triggers are proposed for proceeding to the second loan:
* The RSDF demonstrates that has the capacity to fully implement the
Program: its staff is trained, administrative arrangements permit effective and



timely implementation, monitoring and evaluation systems pernmit to follow-
up project implementation and to assess achievement of project objectives.
* Poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups manifest interest and get
organised and participate in projects activities. Experience from first phase
must demonstrate that a targeted, efficient and effective promotion and
communication campaign is in place and that the project facilitates
community organisation and development. The RSDF should have available:
(i) facilitators trained in commnunity development and appropriate
technologies; (ii) appraisers, trained in formative field appraisal; and (iii)
supervisors, trained in formative supervision.
* Sub-projects have achieved substantially progress in their implementation
Experience from the first phase must demonstrate the grants were given to at
least 250 Bank financed sub-projects and about 70 Bank financed sub-
projects are completed. NIaking this activity a trigger for moving to the
second loan is designed to ensure that lessons learned during the first phase
are used in order to revise, if deeded, the RSDF policy (e.g., menu eligible
categories of sub-projects), the targeting mechanisms and the criteria and
procedures of financing sub-projects.
* The agreed monitoring and beneficiaries assessment are carried out. The
monitoring and beneficiaries assessment are carried out. The monitoring and
the assessment provides information's on Program outcomes in terms of
objective quantitative and qualitative indicators and beneficiaries perception
of its effectiveness. These activities are to be carried on before the first joint
review of Program implementation, scheduled for November 2000.
* At least 80 percent of the first loan funds allocated to sub-projects are
disbursed, or at least 90 percent are committed.
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
9.    The RSDF will use a Management Information System for monitoring a broad
range of indicators collected during the project cycle:
* promotion and facilitation (number of applications submitted, number of
communities facilitated etc.);
* appraisal (number of appraised projects, span time between project
submission and project approval etc.);
* implementation and supervision (average time span between approval and
first disbursement, number of completed projects, amount of the beneficiaries
contributions etc.);
* general information (number of beneficiaries per category of project, funds
allocated per category of projects, average cost per beneficiary etc.).
Qualitative information will be also collected through beneficiaries assessments, and
reports prepared by facilitators and supervisors. Based on these indicators, semi-anual
reports will be prepared. After the first two years of implementation, a general



evaluation of the Program will be undertaken, during which triggers for proceeding to
the second phase of the Program will be checked.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
10.   The agency implementing the Program  is the RSDF, established by Law
129/06.30.1998 as an autonomous temporary institution. The RSDF will operate outside
the prevailing public sector rules and regulations relating to the civil salaries,
procurement and disbursement. Thus, it wNill be able to attract highly qualified personnel
and finance sub-projects quickly, in a transparent way. However, the RSDF will be
subject to strict control procedures and auditing.
11.   Sub-projects will be implemented by a designated Executing Agent (EA). In the
case of rural communities, the EA can be: a sub-project management committee (PMC).
The community will elect the PMC (comprised of a manager, a secretary and a
treasurer) and fully participate in:
* identification, prioritisation of demands and project design;
* designation of the EA;
* contribution (cash or in kind) to the sub-project;
* sub-project implementation. for achieving the agreed objectives;
- operation and maintenance of the sub-project;
* provision of information to appraisers and supervisors;
- sharing experience with other communities disseminate good results,
particularly on strengthening the organisational capacity and building trust in
order to achieve a multiplying effect.
In the case of sub-projects targeted at disadvantaged groups, the EA will usually be an
NGO, in partnership with the local authoritv.
12.   The estimated period of implementation of the Program is four years (FY 1999-
2002). The first phase of the Program will be implemented over the initial three years
(FY 1999-2001) and the second phase of the Program will be implemented over a
partially overlapping period of two years (FY 2001-2002). The two phases overlap
because of the nature of activities to be financed. Under the first phase, sub-projects
selected to receive grants at the end of the second year, will be implemented during the
third year. However, at the end of the second year, it will also be possible to assess the
benchmarks and to decide upon the ways in which the Program is to be continued.
Decebal Traian Remes                                Radu Dop
Minister of Finance                                 President
RS   Steering Commitee



Page 61
Annex 12
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
ENVIRON:MENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRDfIDA Lending Program
Country:                         Romania                 Project ID No:           RO-PE-49200
Project Name:                    Social Dev. Fund        Total Project Cost:     US$20 million
Appraisal Date:                  04/10/98
Board Datc:                      10/15/98                Task Team Leader:       Ana Maria Sandi
Managing Division                ECSHD                   Sector                  Social Protection
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank:  03/20/98
| A Category (A/B/C):            B                       Date Assigned:           03/16/98
Date SJteet Prepared/Updated 03109 1 99S
(Plcase do not leave any items blank: use "N/A' or "lo be developed' when appropriate)
Major Project Con poneents: (presents description of project components)
1. Sub-Projects. This component will support: a) Sub-projects benefiting poor rural conmmtunities or disadvantaged groups
anid will include the rehabilitation and upgrading of small scale local infrastructures; conmmunity-based social services,
income generating activities and the creation of employment opportunities; and b) training and services aimed at
community level capacity building for participatory identification and prioritization of demands, design, implementation
and monitoring of sub-projects.
2. Institutional Support. This component will strengthen the institutional capacity of the Romanian SDF through training,
technical assistance and financing administrative and operation costs. The component will also support the overall
management of the SDF project.
Major Enpironmieental Issiues: (descaibes major enviromnental issucs identified or suspected in project)
Although the sub-projects to be financed by the SDF are very small (up to US$60,000), sub-projects belonging to thc
small rural infrastructure, particularly the watcr supply and sanitation sub-projects may need appropriate environmental
protection measures.
Othler Environmental lxkues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
Environmental checklists in line with Romanian standards will be developed and included as an annex to the Operational
Manual. Romanian procedures which require authorizations of the County Environrmental Agencies will be followed. The
sub-project application will include the appropriate environmental checks and the desk and ficld appraisal and the
s upcr-visioni will verify/check that environmental issues are adequately addressed.
Jitstiflcation/RationaleforEnvironnitental Category: (reasons for env. category scicctcd & cxplanation of any changes from initial
classification)
Even though sub-projects size is limited to a value of US$60,000, certain types of sub-projects will need to follow
environmental checks (water supply, sanitation etc.).
Statuts of Category A En vironenctictalAssessinent: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Reimarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has
given permission to relcase EA, etc)
Signed by:                                                S gnedby:    /         /
John Innes                                                      M Mich lebe Nevers
Program Team Leadcr                                           S4r I.eader,0nvironment



Page 62
Annex 13
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Law Establishing the RSDF
PARLIAMENT OF ROMANIA
SENATE                              CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES
LAW
129/06.30.1998
on the Romanian Social Development Fund
organization and operation
The Parliament of Romania adopts this law
CHAPTER I - General Provisions
Article 1.
1. It is established the Romanian Social Development Fund- hereinafter referred to as the Fund - as a
public interest-oriented organism, without a working purpose, Romanian legal entity with its
headquarters in Bucharest.
2. The Fund will develop its activity under the authority of the Government of Romanaia, under the
provisions of this law.
Article 2.
l. In the spirit of this law, the meaning of the words below is as follows:
a. beneficiaries/recipients of a grant are poor rural community groups, disadvantaged groups and
poor community-based productive groups;
b. poor rural communities are groups of households and families withini a village or an isolated
human settlement facing the same problems and obstacles and having the same interests
complying with the characteristics included in the Operational Manual of the Fulid.
c. disadvantaged groups may comprise poor elderly with no family support, certain classes of ill
people, homeless, women victims of domestic violence, poor women, poor parents with
dependent children, street children, poor pregnant teenagers;
d  poor community-based productive groups are farmers, craftsmen and artisans;
e. the grant agreement is an agreement between the Fund and "dc jure" representatives of target
beneficiaries or the intermediaries organizations, whichever is the case, under which the latter are
granted money, referred to as grants, for the implementation of approved sub-projects onily;
f  project is an initiative launched by target beneficiaries in compliance with the Fund by-laws;
g. afacilitator is an individual or a legal entity selected by the Fund which is committed to help a
poor rural community, a disadvantaged group or a poor rural community-based productive group
to organize itself, identify its needs, prioritize them and prepare a projectarget beneficiary



Page 63
representatives are project management committees (for poor rural community groups and poor
community-based productive groups) or intermediaries organizations (for disadvantaged groups);
h. the project management committee is the 3-member (manager, secretary and treasurer) project
management unit designated by rural poor community groups, poor community-based productive
groups or disadvantaged groups by special proxy certified by the local mayor's office secretary;
i. intermediaries organizations may be NGOs (not-for-profit private legal entities without
working/lucrative purpose) and local public administration agencies in partnership agreements
with NGOs and disadvantaged groups.
2. In order to take advantage of the provision of this Law the groups mentioned above at the paragraph
(1) items b) and d) must become legal entities on the basis of an act of association of at least ten
community members, registered at the local mayor's office that has jurisdiction over the respective
village or isolated human settlement. The legal entity set up following this procedure shall act only in
the legal relationships for applying the provision of this Law and shall no longer exist after project
imnplementation, according to Fund procedures.
Article 3.
1. The Fund aims to contribute to poverty alleviation through competitive based projects financinlg for
rural poor beneficiary communities and disadvantaged groups, to strengthen local managerial skills,
to support administrative decentralization, to increase organizational capacity at the local level.
2. The project financing mentioned at the paragraph (1) shall follow the selection criteria leading to a
projects hierarchy recommended to be approved within the limits of the available funds.
3. The Fund is established for an initial four-year period as a program of tile Government of Romania
with financial support from the international financial organizations and other donors domestic as
well as foreign, the state budget, local administration budget. The Fund's operation may be extended
by the law.
Article 4.
1. In pursuance of its aim, the Fund enjoys self-regulatory powers to issue rules and by-laws under this
Law applicable to any person it enters into legal relationships with. The rules refer interalia to the
Fund Operational Manual, the Handbook for Administrative and Financial Procedures, the Guide for
Appropriate Technologies Used in Infrastructure Projects, a Facilitator's Guide, the procedure for
setting up as legal entity in conformity with the art. 2, paragraph (2)., as required.
2. Regulations stipulated under paragraph (1) will be in force upon issue date of this Law in the Official
Gazette of Romania, Part I (no printing expenses will be incurred).
3. Based on its ownI by-laws, the Fund administers its own budget.
Article 5.
In fulfillment of its aim, the Fund may set up, if needed, regional branches which do not have legal entity
status.
Article 6.
Organizationally and operationlally, the Fund:
1. enjoys administrative autonomy under the provision of this Law; and
2. has no political allegiance.



Page 64
Article 7.
The principles for the Fund's operation are:
I. transparency regarding the management of its own budget;
2. allocation of funds based on evaluation of submitted projects according with the Fund's
requirements;
3. demand-driven targeting of resources to poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups,
4. community participation and partnershiip:
5. cost efficiency of its projects; and
6. recipients contribution (labor, in kind or/and cash) and, whenever is the case, intermediary
organizations contribution for the project's completion.
CHAPTER II- Fund Management
Article 8.
Management body of the Fund is vested in a 9-member Steering Committee comprised of:
1. a representative of the Prime Minister;
2. a representative each of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Public Works and Development of the Territory, and the Local Public Administration
Department of the Government of Romania;
3. four widely recognized personalities in the civil society which are not members of NGOs involved in
the Fund activity and whiichi will be nominated by the President of Romania.
Article 9.
1. Steering Committee members are appointed by the management of these institutions for a four-year
term of office;
2. Steering Committee members mentioned at Article 8 item  a) and b) shall be nomiiinated by
Government Decision; and
3. At the first meeting of the appointed  Steering Committee, its members will take the decisionI
concerinig to their proposal for the chairman position of the Steering Committee. Thleir proposal
should be submitted to the prine minister for the approval.
Article 10.
1. Steering Committee members may be recalled by the nominating authority, uLider the followiig
circumstances:
a. if they committed a crine and were irrevocably sentenced or done anything that may af'fect the
Fund's authority;
b. if a conflict of interests has developed; and
c. if they fail to observe the principles provided in Article 7.
2. The Steering Committee members appointed by the authorities mentioned in article 8 item a) and b)
can be also recalled in case they have lost their position on which ground they have been appointed.
3. The occurrence of one of those circumstances leading to the recall of the Steering Committee
members shall be taken act of either by bringing it to the attention of the authorities menitioned in



Page 65
article 8 item a) and b) or by controlling act concluded by the bodies mentionled in article 35 of this
Law.
Article 11.
1. The Steering Committee meets quarterly and whenever requested.
2. The Steering Committee members will be paid based on fee-base for the participation at the meetings.
The level of the meeting's fee will not exceed 25% of the gross salary of a secretary of state.
Article 12.
The Steering Committee coordinates and controls the FuLid's activities wherefore it has the followilig
powers:
1. to define the Fund's strategy and policies;
2. to ensure that they agree with and complemenit the govermilenit's anti-poverty sectoral strategies and
policies;
3. to make the Fund's by-laws and rules;
4. to approve the Funld's aniual budget and activity report prepared by the Executive Director, to
submit them to the Prime Minister and make themii public in the Oft'icial Gazette ol' Romania, Chapter
no.IV without incurrinig printinig expenses:
5. to ensure that its projects complemenit those undertaken by other organizations and avoid duplication
due to similar pro,jects;
6. to name independenit exterinal auditors of the Funld's finanicia! statements and to reccive their reports:
7. to approve that regional braiichis ;'f the Fund be set up;
8. to appoint a 3-memiiber subcommittee from  the Steering Comimiittee memilbers in char-ge ot' the
approval of tile projects appraisal commissionis' recomimielidatiolns: and
9. to take any other meastire for the FuLid's aims to be attained.
Article 13.
1. The Steerinig Committee meets in accordance with article 11, paragraphi (1), by request of the
President or one-thlird of the Steering Comimiittee members.
2. 'I'he Steering Comimiittee meetinlgs are chaired by the President or by a Steering Committee nimiebcr
appointed by the P'resident, if he is unavailable.
3. The Steering Comimiittee makes its decisions with a quorum of at least seven attendinig  meimiCbeIs of'
whicih one shall be the President or a member duly empowered by the President to deputizc l'or himi.
4. Shotld a conflict of interests develop for a Steering Committee member whenl a decision is put to thc
vote, that memilber shall not cast his vote, failing which he may be recalled and the decision canceled.
5. Tlle Funid's Executive Director attends Steering Committee meetings as an invited guest.
6. The Steering Committee approves its own organization and operation by-laws.
Article 14.
'I'he IFunid's currenit affairs are manlaged by the Executive Director who is appointed by the primie-uiiiiister
with the Steering Committee consultationi and on1 the basis of qualificationis and professional experielice
required for the positioil.



Page 66
Article 15.
The Fund's Executive Director has following responsibilities and tasks:
I . manage the Fund's divisions activity;
2. supervise and guide the work of the Fund's regional branches;
3. ensure the Fund's cooperation with central and local public administrative authorities as well as with
NGOs;
4. ensure that reports are written as well as any other materials, includinig the income and expenses
budget and the aniual activity report that must be put before the Steering Committee for
consideration and approval;
5. approve, within the powers given under this Law, disbursements to the Fund's regional branchies;
and
6. report from time to tine to the Steering Committee on the stage of project implementation.
Article 16.
l. The Executive Director is the Fund's legal representative in its relations with individuals and legal
entities as well as with the judiciary.
2. The Executive Director hires and fires the Fund's staff subject to the provisions of the law and the
Fund's by-laws. Furthermore, he/she contracts outside workers on the basis of relevant terms of
reference established by the Steering Committee for a certain duration .
3. The Executive Director shall conclude any legal act that is within the Fund's objectives and commit
its assets, according to the regulations approved by the Steering Committee.
Article 17.
The Fund's Organizationial Chart is approved by the Steering Committee based on the Executive Director
proposal.
Article 18.
1. The Fund's professional staff are employed based on work contracts, or, as needed services contracts.
2. The rights and duties of such staff, referred to in paragraph I (including their salaries) are defined by
the Fund's by-laws.
3. Regarding the fiianicial resources management and the management of the assets belonging to the
Fund , any person of those mentionied at paragraph (1) can be active subject of the public servants
crimes.
CHAPTER III - The Fund's Resources
Article 19.
1. At the Fund's start-up, its patrimony is comprised of:
a. the right of usage of the assets disposed by Regia Autonoma "State Protocol Administration",
according to this Law; and
b. the right usage of office and communication equipment provided from international organization
grants.



Page 67
2. Financial resources of the Fund are received from:
a  international financial organizations;
b. donations made by individuals and legal entities - both domestic and foreign:
c. financial revenue from  interest on current and deposit accounts of the Fund, to be used
exclusively for project financinlg.
d. local administrative budget sources within the limits approved by the local or county councils, as
the case may be: and
e. state budget souL-ces, with a limit of US$5 million converted in the national currency.
3. The allocated anilual amounlt of monley from the state budget shall be provided in the budget of the
Governmenlt Executive Office.
4. Fund disbursemenlts shall be deposited in a current interest account opened at a commercial bank .
5. For .'e developmenit of the Fund's activity during the first three montils, its expenditures shall be
covered from the state budget, througil the Governimilenit Reserve Fulid. The amount of the needed
finanicial resources will be approved throughi a Government Decision.
Article 20.
T=he Fulid's resources are manlaged by the Executive Director with utmost diligence in conformity with
Steerinig Committee by-laws.
Article 21.
I. The Fund's resources may be used:
a. to finanice projects; and
b. to cover its own overheads for the good functioni of the Fund.
2. The end-use of the ftund's disbursements to projects are made only on selective and competitive basis,
detailed out in the Steering Committee by-laws.
3. The ceilings on the Funld's contributioni to the projects accomplishment, as well as the eligible costs,
are detailed in the Fund by-laws.
4. Details regarding the destinationi of the financial resources are included in the by-laws approved by
the Steering Commllittee.
Article 22.
The Fund's resources may not be used
I. to buy land and buildinigs;
2. to engage in any kind of speculation;
3. to buy securities;
4. to build on or develop land owned by individuals or legal entities for a lucrative purpose beyond the
Fund's concerins;
5. to pay maintenanlce or recurrent costs for infrastructure resulting from project implementation; and
6. to provide for any other operations that the Steering Committee by-laws approved.



Page 68
CHAPTER IV - Fund Operation
Section I - Generalities
Article 23.
I. In its project financing effort, the Fund undertakes the following sequence of activities:
a.  promoting and disseminiatinig information on its activities aiid eligible projects, as well as helpinlg
target beneficiaries and disadvantaged groups to identify their needs and design projects;
b. designinig the assessmenit, selection and approval mechanisimi for projects proposed by target
beneficiaries:
c.  developing the grant agreement with target beneficiary representatives, or whenever is the case,
with iltermiiediar-y organization.
ci.  fisbursing ftor project implemiienitation:
e.  monitoring, supeIvising and evaluatiig project implementatiolln and
f   assessing the executioll of the grant agreement, in accordance with finanicial audit expertise.
2. All operations menitionied in paragraph I are established in Fund's by-laws.
Article 24.
As the activities provided by Article 23 develop, the Fuiid enters into legal agreements with various
partners such as trading comipailles, NGOs, local public administrations and individuals.
Section 2 - The Grant Agreement
Article 25.
I . A grant agreemenit is executed in writing between the Fund represented by its Executive Director and
the target beneficiaries repr-esenitatives. In the case of disadvantaged groups, the grant agreement is
concluded  between the Fulid, represented  by  its Executive Director, and  the  intermediary
organizationi for the account of the disadvantaged group.
2. The grant agreemilenit fi-amewor-k is established in the Fund's by laws.
Article 26.
Thie grant is disbursed in lei, at such a time as the agreement provides, at the exchange rate in force on the
day of the Fund's dollar bid for local exchanige.
Article 27.
Using the grant for purposes other thani provided by the Agreement renders it null and void and incurs, in
addition to legal penalties, the termination of the grant agreement without any intervention from judicial
or arbitration authority.



Page 69
Article 28.
1. Contracts between grant recipients and third party-entrepreneurs, suppliers and service providers
shall be made in writing and are enforceable.
2. Such contracts as provided in paragraph I shall make reference to the Grant Agreement, the grant and
Fund involvement.
3. The goods resulting from  the execution of contracts provided in paragraph  I by suppliers,
entrepreneurs and service providers shall display visibly and in various ways the Fund's logo as
defined in the by-laws.
Article 29.
Should infringements of contractual obligations or disconsiderationi of the provisions of this Law or the
Fund's by-laws be found in the course of monitoring, the Fund may terminate the Grant Agreement
without recourse to a couit of law or arbitration.
CHAPTER V - Final Provisions
Article 30.
Withinl 10 days from the date the Law takes effect, the Regia Autonoma "State Protocol Administration",
shall make available to the FuLid an appropriate and basically furnished building for its head offices.
Article 31.
For the duration of project initiation, design, evaluation, selection, approval and implementation, target
beneficiaries as well as their representatives and facilitators or intermediary organizations, as the case
may be, are entitled to free legal assistance from local public administrations within the respective county
- at every level - for the preparation and conclusion of all legal acts required by the procedures of the
Fund.
Article 32.
In accordance with the Accountancy Law No.82/1991 and with the advise of the Ministry of Finance the
project managemenit coiinmittee shall keep simplified accounting records.
Article 33.
The Prime Minister shall appoint the Steering Committee of the Fund as well as its Executive Director,
within 15 days of this Law taking effect.
Article 34.
Within 90 days of this Law taking effect, the Steering Committee shall adopt the Fund by-laws, approve
the Fund's organizational chart and ensure the hiring of the required staff.



Page 70
Article 35.
The legal controlling bodies shall check on the proper usage by the Fund of its the financial resources,
provided by the state budget, the local budgets and from international financial organizations loans.
Article 36.
1. The financial resoirces borrowed by the Romanian State from the interinational financiers and
disbursed to the Rornaniani Social Development Fund in order to carry out its activity are incurred
obligations of the Romaniiani state and shall be repaid by the Ministry of Finance.
2. The finanicial resources menitioned in paragraph I will be disbursed to the Fund, in tranches, at the
request of the Steering Comn m ittee.
Article 37.
The finanicial resouLces whichl will not be spent during the Fulid's operation period. will be transferred to
the state budget.
This Law was passed 1w!! tlle Chamber of Deputies in its meeting dated April 28, 1998, observing the
provisions of Article 74 ilelml (2) oflhe Constitution of Roniania.
fi)r CHAIRMAN OF THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES
Andrei loan Chilirnan
This Law was parssedt hr the Sentle in its meetin7g dated June 8, 1998, observing the provisions of Article
74 item (2) (of the Constilulion of Romnania.
for PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE
Cristian Sorin Dumitrescu
PRESIDENT OF ROMANIA
DECREE
on the promulgation of the Law on the Romanian Social Development Fund
organization and operation
According to Article 77 paragraph (1) and Article 99 paragraph (I) of the Constitution of Romania
The President of Romainia decrees:
Single Article. - The Law on the Romnanian Social Development organization and operation is
promulgated and shall be issued in the Official Gazette of Romania.
PRESIDENT OF ROMANIA
EMIL CONSTANTINESCU
Bucharest, June 24, 1998
Decree no. 232



Page 71
Annex 14
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Categories Of RSDF Sub-Projects
1. Small Rural Infrastructure
1.1. Objectives
*  Increasilng the access of poor rural communities to markets, education, health services; improving
the hygienie conditionis related to safe drinking water; providing opportunities for a better social
life withinl the rur-al comm11uniities: and
*   Strengthenin1g the capacity of poor rural communities to act In a market oriented environmiienit.
1.2. Targeted beneficiaries
Inihabitalts of poor rural villages.
1.3. Range of Application
Project application is withinl the ceiling of US$ 75,000.
An average size of projects of US$ 60,000 is expected.
1.4. Eligible types of inter-ventions
The following types of interventions are envisaged (the list is not exhaustive):
a. social infrastl-ucturc:
*  water supply - small scale piped water system
* water supply - covered wells
*  sewage systems
*  latrines
* communrity centres
h.  economic infrastructure: rur-al roads
1.5. Eligible and non-cligible project costs
Both techniical projects and civil works will be financed.
Thie RSDF does fuiid:
*   Rehabilitation, upgrading or constructioni of community small scale piped water system;
*  Rehabilitatioll, upgrading or constructionl of community small scale intake units;
*   Rehabilitatioll, upgrading or construction of community small scale water storage tanks;
*   Rehabilitation, upgradinig or constructioni of community small scale pumping station;
*   Reliabilitation, upgrading or constructioni of community small scale treatment units;
*  Rehabilitatioln or construction of hand dug wells:
*  Rehabilitationi or constructioni of drilled wells;
*  Rehabilitationi or constructioni of drilled and dug wells;
*  Rehabilitationl or constructioni of small scale sewage systems, including low technology treatment
ulnits;
*  Constructioni or reliabilitationi of ventilated improved pit latrines:
*  Construction or relhabilitationi of pour flush latrines;
*  Rehabilitation and refurbishment of former "Camin Cultural";
*  Rehabilitationi or upgrading of earth-surface or gravel-surface rural roads (2-6 m wide);
*  Road surface covering (only with gravel);
*  Rehabilitation or constructioin of rural bridges;



Page 72
*  Rehabilitation or construction of culverts; and
*  Rehabilitation or construction of drainage ditches.
The RSDF does not fuLid:
*  Household connectionl;
*  Purchase or lease of land;
*  Rehabilitation or constructioni on private land;
*  Maintenance and recurrent costs;
*  Individual request for latrine:
*  Rehabilitation or conistruction of sewage systems where there is not a sufficient supply of household
water:
*  Tarred (asphalt) or concrete roads: and
*  Construction of new rural roads.
1.6. Eligible Applicants
In conformity with the provisions of the Law  129/1998 regulatinlg the Fund's activity, the eligible
applicants at this category of projects are CBOs or CBOs in partnership with Local Authorities.
1.7. Local Contribution
At least 10% of the p>. jcct cost (total amoupt financed by RSDF) (in kind, materials, labor, studies,
equipment).
1.8. Application Package
*  Official Application Form-1 (adequate presentationi);
o  Required Technilcal documlienits (completed according to a "Check List"); and
o  Required Legal docuLimenits (completed according to a "Check List").
2. Income Generating Activities And Employment Opportunities
2.1. Objectives
*  Strengthening capacity of rural productive community-based groups to compete on the markets;
and
*  Increasing local employmenit opportunities and additional income sources for direct and indirect
beneficiaries:
2.2. Targeted Beneficiaries
Taking into account the specific of this category, the project will be proposed and than managed by a
small number of recipients (in conformity with the RSDF law provisions at least 10 residential people)
but during its implemenitation and afterwards it has to produce benefits for a larger number of indirect
beneficiaries (employees, local suppliers, customers, etc.).
2.3. Range of Application
Project application is within the ceiling of US$ 20.000.
Taking into account the results of the developed sectoral needs assessment it is expected that the average
size of projects costs to be about of US $ 15,000.
2.4. Eligible Types of Interventions
Within the implementing projects could be included activities as follows::
*  Technical Assistance;
*  Institutional Support to Rural Productive Groups;



Page 73
*  Market Opportunities and Information Dissemination within / among RPG;
*  Business Skills Training;
*  Building and strengthening of productive groups networks;
*  Appropriate Technologies for processing of the local raw materials;
*  Rehabilitation of local Economic Infrastructure
2.5. Eligible and non-eligible projects costs:
RSDF does fund:
*  Techilical Assistance and Advice;
*  Training in institutionlal formation and management (including per diem for trainers/trainees and
basic materials):
*  Training materials;
*  1 egal Support;
*  Productioll Mar-keting;
*  Traininlg Equipmilenit Rental;
*  Transportationi and logistic support:
*  Rehabilitationi of the buildinigs for development proper activities;
*  Essential small equipimienit and machinles for the appropriate techilological flow;
*  Raw materials for the first production to members of the productive groups and other eligible
applicants; and
*  Relhabilitationi of processing facilities.
RSDF does not fund:
e Rental for buildilngs;
e  Purchase of land:
*  Purchlase ol'transportation meanls;
-  Adminiistr-ative Salaries;
-  Beverages production;
*  Tobacco's processing; and
*  Purchiase only equipmiienit withini a projects proposal.
2.6. Eligible Applicants
In conformity with the provisionis of the Law  129/1998 regulating the Fund's activity the eligible
applicants at this category of projects are following legal entities:
a. Community-based productive  groups from  villages meeting the poverty criteria and facing
following conditionis and constrainits:
*  Productive groups members lacking their own productive assets necessarily for livelihood and
developmenlt (land and equipment);
*  Productive groups members lacking access to formal traditional credit, to markets and
technologies;
*  Productive groups members lacking control over the local resources and inability to influence
decision making process affecting their life; and
*  Productive groups members without strengthened capacity to compete with other producers and
local interest gr1OUpS for a better share of resources and benefits.
b. Productive groups (meetinlg the same criteria described above) being in partnership with local
authorities and NGOs in rural areas.



Page 74
c. Established craftsmen associations from the villages meeting the poverty criteria previously
mentioned.
2.7. Local contribution
Commitment and interest should be evidenced through cash and ih-kind individual contribution of 15%
of the entire project cost.
2.8. Application Package:
* Official Application Form (adequate presentation and fulfilled);
*  Required Businiess Plan (completed according to a standardformi); and
*  Required Legal documents (completed according to a "Check List").
3. Community Based Social Services
3.1. Objectives
*  Increasing the access of the targeted disadvantaged groups to services that respond to their
immediate needs.
•  Strengthen capacity of NGOs and Local Authorities to respond to the evolving needs of the
disadvantaged groups.
3.2. Target Beneficiaries
The eligible target beneficiaries are the disadvantaged groups described in chapter 3.1.
3.3. Range of Application
Project application is within the ceiling of US$ 20.000.
Taking into account the results of the developed sectoral needs assessment it is expected that the average
cost for one communLity based social services project is US $ 1 5,000.
3.4. Eligible types of interventions
The types of intervenitionis eligible for the RSDF financial support can be characterized by the following criteria:
* the project addresses to eligible disadvantaged groups;
*  the intervenltion should respond to the needs of these beneficiaries;
*  there is an explicit commitmenit to involve the community;
*  address to a minimiiumiL number of beneficiaries according to the type of project; and
*  the ceiling amounlt of RSDF contribution is $ 20.000.
3.5. Menu of sub- projects:
a  Day care centers:
*  Developmental centres for children under school age;
*  Refurbishmenit/developmelnt of existent centres;
*  Educational centres for children drop outs of school due to child labour orbelonging to families in crisis; and
*  Multiple use centres in isolated poor rural communities;
Minimum numiiber of beneficiaries: 20.
b. Health promotion projects:
*  Family planiniig; and
*  Community healthi education on different topics relevant for the health of the community.
Minimum number of beneficiaries: 20.



Page 75
c. Projects for disadvantaged elderly:
* Home care for the elderly.
Minimum number of beneficiaries: 30.
d  Shelters:
* shelters for homeless children;
* shelters for homeless adults;
* shelters or protective environment for 18 years old getting out of orphanages; and
*  week time-shelters for poor children in poor rural communities with low access to school due to big distances
Minimum number of beneficiaries: 15.
e. Projects for increasing the access of the poor to existent entitlements:
*  juridical assistance;
*  information centres; and
* counselling.
Minimum number of beneficiaries: 200.
RSDF does not wish to limit the creativity of organisations trying to meet the needs of their beneficiaries.
Project that fall into the RSDF principles and do not fall within the above menu can be discussed on a case by
case basis.
Eligible costs:
RSDF does fund
* educational/develop mne ntal materials,
* nutritional supplements (as milk, vitamins);
*  initial cost-sharinig for salaries for the developmental/pedagogical staff / caretakers for the
children/ home caretakers for the elderly;
*  rehabilitation/upgrading costs for the premises (e.g. shelters, day centers); basic equipment as
beds, sheets, sanitary equipment, kitchen;
*  community healtlh training programs for community groups, health professionals if necessary;
*  development and multiplication of training materials specific for poor, possibly illiterate
women/men;
*  training of personnel and informal careers (volunteers) on the provision of home care services;
*  special training in life skills for teen age orphans;
* costs incurred by activities related to job placement;
*  cost-sharinlg for a limiited period of time (6 months) to keep former orphans into a protected
environment;
*  small equipmenit and basic materials for support at home;
*  costs for organizinig the volunteers (reimbursement of refreshments, communications, transport -
for example reimibuLrsement of monthly travel cards);
*  washing machinle, detergent;
* incremental costs for additional equipment to enable the extension of special services to other
vulnerable groups; and
* transport and per diems enabling the outreach of isolated communities if necessary;
The RSDF does not fund:
*  purchase or rent of premises;
* purchase of basic office equipment (computers, printers for intermediary agencies as NGOs or



Page 76
Local Authorities);
*  drugs, vaccines, pills, coils; and
*  salaries for professionals to perform activities that would duplicate the existent public services
(teachers, general practitioners, nurses).
3.3. Eligible Applicants
Principles guiding eligible applicants:
Eligible applicants should:
*  demonstrate capacity/existent skills and human resources to develop the project;
*  demonstrate the capacity and willingness to consult beneficiaries/;
*  demonstrate a special commitment to build effective partnershiips with all range of organizationis
(public, private, CBOs...); and
*  demonstrate the capacity to continue the project at the end of the RSDF finanicing: source of recurrent costs.
expertise , at the end of the financed project.
Implementing agents in the case of social services projects are as following:
a. Specialized NGOs iw'orking in the social-services area who:
*  have the experience of at least one year in the provision of social services;
*  provide records of the recipients during the past year of their previous projects;
-  have a record of good practice (international recognition, capacity to disseminate their know how through
training and techinical assistance); and
1  demonstrate the sustainability of the initial cost-sharing scheme for recurrent costs through agreements
signed either with the local authiorities or with the community williig to maintaini the type of service.
b. Communily Based Organizations if they demonstrate to have:
-  service contracts with specialized NGOs (that would have to comply to the items above);
-  in the case of CBOs fiom rural areas, at least one local professional (nurses, teachers, family doctors)
should have sigined collaboration contracts with the PMC; and
*  demonstrate the sustainabilitv of the initial cost-sharing scheme for recurrent costs throughi agreemenits
signed either with the local authorities or with the community group itself williig to maintaill the type
of service.
An NGO capacity forim will be completed by the applicant and registered by the RSDF team.
Appraisal will check reliability of information.
3.4. Local contribution
The applicant should make evidence of commitment and interest throughi cash or in-kind contribution of
5% of the entire project cost; the contribution can come from the community or from any other partner in
the project.
3.5. Complete application package:
*  Official Application Form (adequate presentation and fulfilled)
*  Required Forimis as: Community Care form, Partnership form, NGO capacity form, Beneficiary
Assessment forimi and Focus Group form completed according to the standard forms presented in
the annexes; and
*  Required Legal documents (completed according to a "Check List").



Page 77
Annex 15
Romania: Social Development Fund Project
Organization of RSDF, Financial Management and Monitoring
1. The Organization of the RSDF
The RSDF's Organizational Chart has been approved by the Steering Committee based on the
Executive Director's proposal. The RSDF's professional staff will be employed based on work
contracts, or, as needed, on part-time service contracts.  The RSDF will have three mail
Departments: Operations Departmenlt, Finance and Administrationi Department and Promotion and
Facilitation Departmenit.
1.1 The Operations Department
The Operations Departmenit will manage for each category of sub-projects (small rural
infrastructure, incomiie generatilng activities and social services) the following componients of the
project cycle: registration of subimiitted sub-projects; evaluation of the eligibility criteria; desk and
field appraisal; supervisioni and monitorinig.
Each of the three mentionied categories of interventionl will be coordinated by a sector
coordinator, responsible for ensurilng the appraisal, supervision and monitorilig functiolis.
The main funictionis of the Operations Department will be to:
*  design and refine standard application forms wilichi are appropriate to the needs of the poor,
*  develop standards, unit costs (including evaluation of the in- kind contributions of
communiities), contracts, schedules, plans etc.,
e  register and screen submitted applications packages;
*  ensure the communllicationi with the registered applicants;
*  develop termis of reference for appraisers and supervisors in order to be approved by the
Steerinig Committee:
*  organize and coordinate the field appraisal (prepare short lists/data base of available
specialized appraisers and propose contracts for appraisers according to need for any
competition round);
v  organize training of appraisers and supervisors to ensure that RSDF principles are workable
and that the assessmenlts inputs are included in the training curriculum;
*  organize the selection process of the supervisors according to the need of implemenltinlg
projects;
*  organize in cooperation with the Financial and Administrative Department the supervision
and moniitorinlg of sub-projects:
*  ensure techilical professionial appraisal and supervision of projects is done in a consistenitly
good and timely way;
*  ensure that projects ulider implementation comply with existing technilcal and professionial
standards:
*  ensure / promote sector coherenice;
*  assist with the correct interpretationi of procedural requirements for the procurement of
goods and services and ensure that procurement procedures are followed at community and
local authiority level;
*  organize in cooperation with promotion and facilitation department the training ofPMCs on
project implementationi management;
*  develop technical manuals for use by recipients, lAs, local authorities that are implementiig
projects; and
*  organize and develop supervision of the all types of projects which will ensure that the RSDF



Page 78
activities are meeting the objectives in an efficient and effective way.
Appraisers and supervisors will be contracted according to the needs. They will be specialized
professionals selected based on specific terms of references and according to a short list of potential
consultants.
1.2. Financial and Administration Department
The Financial and Administration Department will perform the financial management and control
tasks of the RSDF. Specifically, the functions of the Department will be to:
* prepare annual, quarterly budget and financial reports for RSDF, the Prime Minister, World
Bank or any other donors;
* design accounting procedures for tracking RSDF expenditures and ensure they are followed;
* keep records of the RSDF and accounting in conformity with the legal national accountancy
standards and donors requirements;
* prepare balance sheets and report to financial-administrative bodies;
* advise the Steering Committee and the Executive Director concerning the legal matters and
ensure that the legal requirements are met;
* approve and account for all disbursements; and
* responsible for huiman resources management.
1.3. Management Information System
The Management Informationi System (MIS) will be organized as a section under the Financial and
Administration Departmenit. The MIS will support the management and supervision of the technical and
financial execution of projects and the information requirements for the RSDF management, Steering
Committee and World Bank or other donors. The MIS will reflect, mainly, the RSDF project cycle. The
MIS will provide all inforimiationi in Romanian and the summary information in both Romanian and
English.
The MIS will serve to:
* systematize the inforimiationi generated as a result of the RSDF's activity;
* facilitate the adminiistrationi tasks;
*  allow the decentralization of tasks; and
*  generate managemlienit information.
The MIS will have two basic sub-systems: the Project Management Sub-System and the
Administrative Sub-System.
1.3.1. The Project Management Sub-System
Project Management Sub-System will:
* follow the project cycle to assist RSDF in project management in all stages;
* assist RSDF in all administrative tasks related to projects;
* be an instrument for the decision making process;
* contain a cost database of the most representative items of the projects; and
*  generate monitoring and performance indicators.
The main modules of project management sub-system will be as follows:
*  Resources and targeting module. The module will facilitate decision-making process. It
will store social and economic characteristics of different regions, resources, local support
organizations, NGOs.
*  Project module. The module will manage all the information on the RSDF projects cycle
starting from the Application registration through Appraisal, Approval, and Contracting to



Page 79
the Implemenitationl and Completion.
* Monitoring module. The module will incorporate several moniitorinlg reports and graphical
screen presentationis of the main monitoring indicators.
1.3.2. The Administrative Sub-System
The administrative sub-system will have the following objectives:
*  to assist RSDF in administiationl and accounting tasks;
*  to ensure timely release of accounting information for audit; and
*  to handle fiianicial informationi.
The administrative sub-system will have the following modules:
*  Accounting motdule. The module will be based on traditional accountilig principles and
procedtires usiilng an existing comimiercial software; it is recommended to operate with two
currencies.
*  Budget module. TIhe module will control the budget through reports that show the amounts
estimated, the real executed and the differences between them in a certain period.
*  Professionals module. The module will be a database comprising consultants, information
about personinlel maniagemiienit, payments of fees for consultants, consultant contracts.
*  Bank disbursement and expenditures reports module. The module will: (i) assist in all
operative tasks related to the disbursement and expenditures reports to the World Bank and
RSDF; and (ii) receive inputs from project cycle, Accounting, and Professionals modules.
The Unit Cost l)atabasc will allow control and formulation of project budgets and will generate
cost-efficiency indicators. This tool will comprise three main databases:
- Basic Items Database;
- "Forintila" Database; and
Compound Price Database.
The data combinationl between the first two databases will produce the third one. The methodology
to build a Compounid Prices Catalog will follow a simple procedure that will desegregate a product
(example: a wall) in its basic elemelnts (material, labor and equipment) and from that point will start to
build a structured analysis.
1.4. Promotion and Facilitation Department
The department will ensure that the activities supported by the RSDF reach the target beneficiaries.
The section will gather inforimiationi from other sections and departments, as well as cooperating partners,
in order to fulfill the following functions:
* propose and refine the RSDF promotion and communication strategy, prepare annual working
plan for promotionl activities;
* prepare terims of reference and organize competition for the selection of promotion materials
providers or public relations company adjusted according withi the available promotion budget;
* organize and supervise the contractual relations with contracted providers of promotion
materials and services;
* monitor and evaluate the implementation of the promotion and communication strategy and
programs;
* ensure the coherenice of the promotion strategy in co-ordination and interaction with other
departments and types of activities undertaken by the RSDF;
* identify the poorer villages to be facilitated and register applying communities;
* identify potential facilitators, contract, coordinate the effectiveness of the facilitation process;
* develop, promote and establish methods and guidelines of active community participation, to
ensure marginalised groups participate in decision making;
* coordinate appropriate training programs for the identified needs;



Page 80
* assist the communities by sending facilitators;
* monitor tihe activities and working plan of the facilitators from the field;
* prepare reports to be presented to the management team; and
* share achieved experiences among other specialists involved (programs coordinators,
appraisers, supervisors).
2. Financial Management
2.1. Disbursement rules and procedures
2.1.1. Disbursement at World Bank Level
The Bank will disburse to the borrower according to the following main procedures:
(i) The RSDF will establish in a commercial bank a Special Account (SA), to be operated under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) The Romaniain contributioll to the project will be provided throughi the GSG. The yearly
contribution will be based on the planned disbursements communicated by the RSDF Steering
Committee. The RSDF would request regular payments into its own local currency account.
(iii)The Government sliall delegate the RSDF (through a governmental decision) with the prerogative
to operate in thie Special Account mentioned at point 1. Based on the governmental decision, the
President of the Steering Committee will appoint the Executive Director of the Fund and the
Financial and Administrative Director as authorized persons to operate in the Special Account,
including replenishimienit of the Special Account, according to the stipulations of the Loan
Agreement.
(iv) Apart from the Special Account, the Fund shall open current accounts with Romanian
commercial banks selected according to the terms set down by the Government and by the 1BRD,
respectively.
(v) Replenishmenit of the Special Account shall be upon request addressed to the IBRD by the two
authorized persons mentionied at paragraph 2, including an expenditure statement.
(vi) In case of interniationial procurement contracts larger than US$ 1 00,000 concluded by the RSDF
through the authorized persons mentioned at paragraph 2, the RSDF may request the IBRD to
make the payments directly out of the Special Account.
2.1.2. Disbursement at the RSDF Level
For the funds provided by the state budget, the RSDF will open a distinct current account with a
Romanian commercial bank selected according to the requirements of the Ministry of Finance.
For other financial resources provided by third donors, the Fund shall open distinct current accounts
with Romanian commercial banks selected according to the requirements of the respective donors.
Current accounts in foreign excliaiige will be opened by the Fund for the financial resources provided by
foreign donors, according to the terms mentioned above.
The previously mentioned accounts will be operated only by the Executive Director and the Financial
and Administrative Director.
Payments  by the RSDF regarding its current functioning (such as salaries, expenses for
transportation, per diem, maintenance etc.) will be made on the basis of justifying documents as
stipulated by the RSDF Law. Payment for procurement of goods and services will be made according to
contracts. Each contract or expenditure will be linked to a source of financing and a certain budget line.
A contract/expenditure may be financed entirely out of a certain financing source or out of more



Page 81
financing sources, according to the requirements of the donors.
As an exception to the rule according to which all payments made in Romania should be in the
national currency, some part of the sums provided by foreign donors may be used in order to make
payments in foreign exchange, according to the terms stipulated by the donors.
All payment documents shall mention the following: the scope of the payment, the IBRD code for the
respective payment category as well as the code according to the internal accounting system.
2.1.3. Disbursement at the Project Level
Disbursements for the sub-projects approved by the Steering Committee will be made in tranches.
The first tranche will be considered as an advance payment, while subsequent disbursements will be
made against work completed or activities carried out within the sub-project, as well as against the
evaluation report prepared by the RSDF's supervisor after visiting the site of the sub-project.
The evaluation report of the supervisor will include the physical execution of the works or activities,
the financial assessment based on checking out the original payment documents of the recipients and the
assessment of compliance with environmental provisions.
When requesting the following tranche, the representatives of the recipients will account to the
RSDF's supervisors for at least 75% of the previous tranche. Justifying the remaining 25% will be made
when requesting the following tranche. The last tranche will be accounted for on the basis of the
supervisor's final report.
On the basis of a favorable final report, the legal relation between the RSDF and the beneficiary legal
entity ceases, the current account of the latter will be closed and the potential unused remaining funds
will be returned to the RSDF.
2.1.4. Disbursements to Representatives of Recipients
Transfer of funds to the sub-project, deadlines and terms for funds disbursements will be stipulated in
the Grant Agreement.
In order to conclude the Grant Agreement, the Management Committee of the Project shall open a
current account with the nearest CEC (Romanian savings bank) branch. Intermediary organizations will
certify the opening of a separate current account with a Romanian commercial bank.
The size of the advance payment will depend on the size of the approved funds. The number of
tranches and their size will be established according to the size of the funds approved, as follows:
(a) less than US$ 10,000: two tranches, the first one of 40 percent (advance payment) and the second
one of 60 percent;
(b) between US$ 10,001-20,000: three tranches, the first one of 20 percent (advance payment), and
the other two of 40 percent each; and
(c) over US$ 20,000, four tranches: the first one of 15 percent (advance payment) and the remaining
three tranches of 25 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent.
Recipients' cash contributions to the Project will be included in the current account, before the
signing of the Grant Agreement.
In order to receive the subsequent tranches, the recipients' representatives will fill in a standard
disbursement application form. The RSDF will print and provide a sufficient number of standard
disbursement application forms.



Page 82
Upon receiving the disbursement application forms, the RSDF will initiate the disbursement
procedures mentioned above. The last tranche will be disbursed only if the supervisor certifies that the
completion of the sub-project, according to the provisions of the Grant Agreement and the approved
specifications of the sub-project.
2.2. Procurement Management
2.2.1. Procurement Management at RSDF Level
The Executive Director will oversee all procurement to be carried out by RSDF.
The Financial and Administration Department will be responsible for the procurement of any goods,
labor or services required at the RSDF level. In addition, the legal adviser will ensure that established
procurement guidelines are strictly followed.
The Operations Departmenit will be responsible for ensuring that all procurements related to sub-
project execution are set-up and followed according to the procedures and rules established in the
Operational Manual. The Operations Department will provide support and needed assistance whenever it
is requested for the implemenitinig partners.
2.2.2. Procurement Management at the Sub-Project Level
As one of the maini objectives of the RSDF Project is to empower local community groups to manage
financial resources, these groups shall have the opportunity to procure quality goods in the most cost-
effective way.
One fundamental rule shall ensure that community groups have responsibilities to implement and
monitor the progress and completioni of the approved sub-projects. In this respect, community-elected
representatives will generally be responsible for handling funds and contracting the necessary labor and
materials. If the community representatives do not have capacity to conduct procurement, they may
request assistance from the RSDF. However, in both cases the community representatives will be
responsible for monitoring and following up on procurement of goods, the most appropriate storage and
release of goods, daily monitoring of the contractors and management of the community contribution in
cash, local materials and labor.
In the case of remilote areas, the community representatives shall be involved in procurement but the
payments to suppliers and contractors may be made directly by the RSDF, if requested.
In other rural areas, the PMC shiall nominate one of its members as procurement officer to follow
specified procuremenit procedures and to monitor purchasing contracts.
Procuremenit procedures will have sufficient flexibility to respond to regional differences as to the
institutional capacity of commun1ities and the local availability of goods, services and contractors.
Procurement of goods, labor and services will be the primary responsibility of the sub-project IA.
For each approved sub-project, the RSDF will enter into contractual agreement with an IA that represents
the eligible applicant. The Grant Agreement will specify the terms and conditions when the money may
be used.
The procurement procedures and rules will be attached as an annex in the Grant Agreement and the
funds recipient will benefit from appropriate training and TA needed during the execution of sub-project,
regarding the procurement matters. The supervisors will review and guide the IA to ensure that any



Page 83
procurement procedures and rules are developed in conformity with the Grant Agreement clauses and
specifications. The RSDF supervisors will present in their field reports the main findings concerning the
procurement activities and will make the needed recommendations to the decision-making bodies of the
RSDF.
The PMC may operate as a Tender Committee and will be in charge of taking all steps and decisions
necessary for procurement in relation to the implementation of the sub-project.
3. Financial Control and Audit
3.1. Internal audit
RSDF's Finanicial and Adminiistration Department will be responsible for monitoring RSDF's
budgetary situation and all finanicial operations.
The RSDF supervisors will check and report on the correct spending of money during the
implementation of the sub-projects according to the Grant Agreement specifications and RSDF rules and
procedures.
The Financial and Administrationi Departnent will report directly to the RSDF's Executive Director,
and the reports will include any irregularities found in RSDF's operations as well as proposals for
correcting them. These reports shall be made available to the RSDF's Steering Committee.
3.2. External audit
RSDF annual finanicial statemenits will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards and audited in accordance with International Standards for Auditing. The RSDF will be
audited annually by an independent aiid qualified auditor acceptable to World Bank. Their selection will
to be carried out by the Steering Committee in accordance with the TOR agreed upon with the World
Bank. The various supportinig documents and original paid vouchers will be filled and maintained at the
RSDF by the Financial and Administration Department and produced for the purpose of audit. All
accounts, audits and sub-projects shiall be open for supervision at all times. The fiscal year of RSDF will
be from January I to December 31. The accounts shall be closed on the last day of the financial year and
the audit will be conducted within two months of the closing of the accounts. The final accounts and the
audit report will be presented to the Steering Committee within six months of the end of the preceding
financial year.
No later than six monthis after the end of the fiscal year, RSDF will submit to the Bank, the Prime
Minister and other donors certified copies of audit reports containing balance sheets and the auditor's
opinion on whether the RSDF is achievinig its objectives in a cost-effective manner and whether internal
controls are adequate to minimiize the possibility of misuse of funds.
4. Monitoring
The RSDF will use the following moniitoring indicators (provided by MIS):
4.1. Promotion and Facilitation
*  Number of sub-projects (applications) submitted by community groups and/or NGOs.
*  Number of sub-projects (applications) submitted by community groups and/or NGOs / county.
*  Number of facilitated communities.
*  Number of sub-projects (applications) submitted by facilitated community groups.
*  Number of sub-projects (applications) submitted by CBOs / Number of submitted projects (%).
*  Number of sub-projects with partnerships / Number of submitted projects (%).



Page 84
* Number of trained facilitators.
* Average number of facilitated communities per facilitator (and per county).
*  Average number of contact hours reported by a facilitator for a submitted sub-project.
*  Average number of facilitator's visits in a community for a sub-project submission.
4.2. Appraisal
*  Number of submitted sub-projects by type of sub-project.
*  Number of eligible sub-projects by type of sub-project.
* Eligible projects/ submitted sub-projects (%).
*  Number of appraised sub-projects.
*  Average number of appraised sub-projects per appraiser.
*  Number of approved sub-projects by type of sub-project and by county.
* Number of approved sub-projects submitted by facilitated communities.
*  Number of approved sub-projects submitted by non-facilitated communities.
*  Approved projects / appraised sub-projects (%).
*  Span time between submitting and desk appraisal (days).
*  Span time between desk and field appraisal (days).
*  Span time between field appraisal and appraisal report (days).
4.3. Implementation and Supervision
*  Average time span between appraisal report and first disbursement (days).
*  Average time span between the submission of the application and the first disbursement (days).
*  Average numilber of sub-projects per supervisor (overall and for each county).
*  Average time span between supervision visit and the following disbursement (days).
*  Number of completed sub-projects.
*  Completed sub-projects/ approved sub-projects (%) (overall and for each type and sub-type of
project).
*  Completed sub-projects/ appraised sub-projects (%) (overall and for each type and sub-type of
project).
*  Completed sub-projects/ eligible sub-projects (%) (overall and for each type and sub-type of
project).
*  Completed projects! submitted sub-projects (%) (overall and for each type and sub-type of
project).
*  Number of sub-projects canceled during execution and the reason why (overall, per number of
contracted sub-projects, per type and sub-type and per county).
*  Number of completed sub-projects per each type of sub-project, per county.
*  Average amount of moniey per each type and sub-type of sub-project (US$).
*  Number of ongoing sub-projects per type, sub-type and per county.
*  Total amount of allocated money (US$).
*  Local contribution / allocated amount (%) (overall and for each type, sub-type and per county).
*  Average delays in executioni per type of sub-projects (days), per type of cause.
* Average delays in executionl per type of sub-projects (%).
4.4. General Information Indicators
*  Number of potential beneficiaries per type of sub-projects.
*  Cost per beneficiary per sub-project (per type of sab-projects).
*  Type!units of benefits per sub-project (per type of sub-projects).
*  Share of comimiunity contributioni per project (per types of projects).



Page 85
*  Amount of money allocated per each type and sub-type of project, per county (US$).
*  Total number of beneficiaries.
*  Number of beneficiaries per type and sub-type of projects and per county.
*  Average cost per beneficiary (overall, per each type and sub-type and per county).
*  Average cost per beneficiary per each sub-type of project in urban and in rural area(overall and
for each type and sub-type of project).
*  Number of sub-projects maniaged by CBOs/ total number of sub-projects addressing poor rural
community groups.
5. Financial Management Action Plan
The RSDF (the entity) will implemenit the following time-bounded Action Plan for the establishment
of the Financial Managemenit System .
By November 30, 1998.
* Trial run, through a set of dummy data, of the accounting software (on the hardware available at
that time), with special reference to its functioning for project purposes (e.g. separation of
accounts). The test will include, inter alia,: system access and operation security devices (e.g.
passwords, file protection, etc.); budgeting simulations; samples of accounting records (first-
entry, postin1g to the ledger, use of additional ledgers - receivables and payables, salary and
wages module, etc.); costin1g analysis (e.g. investment vs. recurrent costs); consolidation for
interim finanicial situations; entity's and project's trial balances.
By December 15,1998.
*  Staffing of the Finanice and Administration Department positions: Director; Accountant; Cashier;
Legal/Procurement Specialist; MIS Coordinator.
By December 31, 1998.
*  Final set up and documentation of the internal control procedures (to be included in the
Operational Manual). These will include, inter alia: design of appropriate audit-trail; preparation
of the fixed assets register; definition of segregation of duties and level of controls for payments'
signature; identification of petty-cash management responsibilities; definition of bank
reconciliation schedule and procedures.
*  Definition of the accounting policies and preparation of the entity's and project counterpart's
funding reporting formats in accordance with the national legislation.
*  Preparation of the project reporting formats in accordance with the LACI Implementation Manual
templates: Project Managemenit Report (PMR).
*  Preparation of Terms of Reference (TOR) for the assessment of the funds' flow system and for
the project aninual audits.
By January 10, 1999.
*  Delivery of the final Englislh translation of the Operational Manual.
*  Final testing of the accounting and reporting software (networking, if available).
*  Predisposition of adequate filing system for project supporting documentation (specialized and
chronological binders, serial numbers, etc.).
*  Preparation of Letters of Invitations (LOI) for auditing services.
By January 20, 1999.
* Bank Financial Management mission. The purpose of the mission will be to verify the system
implementation status, according to the phases described, evaluating its readiness for the starting



Page 86
of the project (e.g. review of the accounting database, internal control systems, reporting
generation facility, etc.). The Financial Management Specialist will provide guidelines and
address the outstanding issues. At his/her judgement, a short-time consultant will be assigned to
the project for the realization of the further steps/improvements.
By January 31, 1999.
*  Receipt of interest to bid from the invited auditing firms and finialization of the auditing firms
short-list.
*  Full RSDF staffing.
By February 14, 1999.
*  Receipt of Bank's no-objection on the auditing firms short-list presented.
*  Predisposition of disburlsemenit documentation: application for withdrawals, Special Account and
Statemenit of Expenditure procedures.
By February 28,1999.
*  Implementation of the corrective actions to any system's shortfall/necessary improvement, as
identified by the Finanicial Management Specialist during his/her mission.
dorothy clift
C:\TEMP\PADdc I O.doc
12/16/98 2:32 PM



26~~~~~~  *  ~ ~   ~     2'       ROMvANIA
''>,  UKRAINE                     ^                   SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
FUND PROJECT
~'Satu
~~d    0MaMrRAMU.RE                                                                                    POOREST COUNTIES
SATU
HUNGARY                                                                i MARE  OBagaMare                                              POORER COUNTIES
>'* B1STRIJK -                                                                   SELECTED CITIES
I       ' S~~~~)N4A   K'
ZI\                 DeAo                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
~~~-                   -)                 ijo                                                                    COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
BtL HO R                    .                                                                                        .   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I                      ~~~~~CLUJJ
Cluj-Napoca 0-
.w   -   _   \-                  t   ~~~~~M U R E S   i         
N                               Tlrg-u     Mu es H A R G H ITA
'. r,   %~~~  r9  M                                                                   2s.     KILOMETERS  7
ARAD  .                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~i;ercureaCiuce  .                0    273 100
/       .~~~~Albalulia  f      Medi                    *%*46
-4A .                                                                      :C O VASN A R   A   D  o  t.    _    \                    '
,   SIB/U              ~~~~~~~~~~I Sfintu 
TIM IS               HSibiu                                  BRASOV   ' iGheorghe          VRANCEA        GALATI            -
0Timisooro   Lugow     H ...d.9r        /                                                                                     41
0 St     J HUNEDOARA: -,
Pekrosonio  1                             .
OD Resita                                                 -                                          Braila
/.lirguiJiu0                    ARGES            \   RHV                     . BRAILA 
v    SEVERIN   j-           )3Ju        .ALCjA          RE    \         Lo                                    L       TULCEA                       |
~~(    SEVER/N    ,   ~~~~~ GO RJ                     PiteP$oiesli
.MEHEDINTI             .                  s
8*_A~TAJ _AL  ITrA P sP+a~  < jX  A    1m010itc
FED. REP. OF                                       ft                                    B(
YUGOSLAVIA                              Crow,jai    <     O      j                    N -         CALARASI
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)                          D     J <                              A GIdwGIS
u , a ! '.Q:tW ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIURGIUONSTANTA 
-44;  mn50   b  hMpOipti    hW-8-                                         , >\               ;     {'-ol                                              i 
I6   o      n    mi- -, ,  ^*y .0-,M  '
92  torcKKeofsucJI.     ~~~~~22  -                          2A.      BULAI          '          260                                28° 
X                I      I    ~~~~~~~~~~I*~I                  IfE                                . O0Sb



