Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4434 RO
Loan Agreement
(Social Development Fund Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 20, 1999
LOAN NUMBERR 4434 RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1999, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated November 6, July 29, 1998, 
from the Borrower describing a phased program (the Program) to alleviate poverty 
through measures to enhance the development of rural communities and disadvantaged 
groups, and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Program;
(B)  
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the 
Program through extension to the Borrower of loans up to the equivalent of $20,000,000 
over a period of four (4) years; 
(C)
to assist in financing the Program, the Borrower intends to obtain from 
the Council of Europe Social Development Fund (CESDF) a loan (the CESDF loan) in an 
amount equivalent to about $10,000,000 under an agreement (the CESDF Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower Borrowerer and the CESDF; and
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; which constitutes the first phase of the 
Page  2
Program;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as modified 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a recipient of assistance under the Project from SDF 
(as such term is hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement  to be concluded between RSDF and a 
Recipient (as these terms are hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;   
(c)
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual to be adopted by RSDF 
to govern the selection of Recipients and Subprojects and to determine the terms 
applicable to assistance provided by RSDF under the Project;
(d)
“Recipient” means any organization or agency eligible to receive and 
administer assistance in accordance with the RSDF law referred to in paragraph (ed) of 
this Section;
(e)
“RSDF” means the Romanian Social Development Fund, established under the 
Borrower’s Law Number 129 for the year 1998, as an autonomous public-interest agency, 
created by the Borrower to contribute to poverty alleviation in rural communities and 
among disadvantaged groups;
(f)
"Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“Subproject” means the activities to be carried out by a Recipient in 
utilization of assistance made available to such Recipient under a Grant 
Agreement; and  
(h)
“GSG” means the General Secretariat of Government of the Borrower;
(i)
“Subsidiary Implementation Agreement”  means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower , GSG and RSDF pursuant to the provisions of Part A (1) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.;
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual to be adopted by SDF to 
Page  3
govern the selection of Beneficiaries and Subprojects and to determine the terms 
applicable to assistance provided by SDF under the Project;
(k)
“SDF” means the Social Development Fund of Romania, established under the 
Borrower’s Law Number 129 for the year 1998, as an autonomous public-interest  agency, 
created by the Borrower to contribute to poverty alleviation in rural communities and 
among disadvantaged groups;
(l)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee established for the 
management of SDF pursuant to SDF’s Law Number 129 of the year 1998; and
(m)
“Subproject” means the activities to be carried out by a Beneficiary in 
utilization of assistance made available to such Beneficiary under a Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) withdrawals made on account of subproject under 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001June 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. TOn or promptly after the Effective Date, Tthe Borrower shall pay 
to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On 
or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.067 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
Page  4
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.056, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and 
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SDFRSDF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, engineering, administrative and poverty alleviation and 
social capital strengthening practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section  
and  except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause SDFRSDF to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to SDFRSDF 
under a subsidiary n implementation agreement (the Subsidiary Implementation 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, GSG and SDFRSDF, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in 
Part A (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank and 
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive, the Subsidiary Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works  and consultants’ services required under the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, acting through RSDF,  shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and the 
Program; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through RSDF,  shall establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through RSDF,  shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request; and
(iv)
(A) have the funds’ flow system for the Project evaluated by an 
appropriate 
auditing firm acceptable to the Bank body not later than 
three months after 
the first disbursement from the Loanby March 31, 
1999; (B) furnish to the Bank 
a report on such evaluation by said 
auditing body firm within one month after 
its completion; and by 
April 30, 1999; and (C) review with the Bank said 
report within 
one month of said report’s submission to the Bank, and, 
thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure the efficient flow of funds 
for the Project taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  6
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or 
waived without the Bank’s prior consent; and
(b)
a situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events Specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) 
the Subsidiary Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower, GSG and RSDFSDF; and
(b) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a shortlist of auditors 
consultants and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the performance of 
audit services in accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. the fee amount 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid by the Borrower to the 
Bank.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (1nine2ty (90) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. \0c
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest Romania
Telex:
11239
For the Bank:
Page  7
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bucharest, Romania, the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
ROMANIA
By /s/  Decebal Traian Remes 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Regional Vice President 
Country Director Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects
    8,000,000
82% of amounts 
disbursed under
Grant Agreements 
(2)
Goods under
      200,000
100% of foreign
Part A of
expenditures, 100%
the Project
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
82% of local expen-
ditures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
      800,000  
100%
including audits
and training under 
(4)
Operating costs 
      100,000
100%
under Part AB.2 of
Page  8
the Project
(5)
Unallocated
      900,000
     TOTAL
   10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works  or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means expenditures incurred by RSDF on account 
of Part B(2) of the Project implementation iincluding communications, local travel, 
per diem and accommodations, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Bank, but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) any expenditures to be financed from the proceeds of the loan 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the fee amount referred to in Section 2.04 
of this Agreement has been paid by the Borrower and to the Bank; (b) payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and and (cb) payments on account of 
any Grant Agreements under Part B of the Project unless such Grant Agreement has been 
approved in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual and the relevant 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for the carrying out 
of subprojects costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (c) services of 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000; and (d) goods, and 
training and audits under Part A of the Project, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program which has the objective 
of alleviating poverty through measures and investments to improve living conditions 
in poor rural communities and among disadvantaged groups and to increase local 
capacity for organization and self-help. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
SDFRSDF Institutional Support
1.
Implementation of measures to strengthen the capacity   of SDFRSDF, including 
training, technical assistance and the financing of SDFRSDF’s administration and 
operation costs.
2.
Provision of technical and financial support to SDFRSDF for purposes of 
management of Project implementation.
Part B:
Subprojects
1.
The carrying outpromotion, selection, implementation and supervision and 
carrying out in accordance with the criteria and principles set forth in the 
Operational Manual of Subprojects prepared by Recipient Beneficiariess.
Page  9
2.
Local Training and technical assistance to Recipients to promote, facilitate, 
appraise and supervise Subprojects Beneficiaries.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Date
  (US Dollars)    *
June 15, 2004
210,000 
December 15, 2004
215,000 
June 15, 2005
225,000 
December 15, 2005
230,000 
June 15, 2006
235,000 
December 15, 2006
245,000 
June 15, 2007
250,000 
December 15, 2007
260,000 
June 15, 2008
265,000 
December 15, 2008
275,000 
June 15, 2009
285,000 
December 15, 2009
290,000 
June 15, 2010
300,000 
December 15, 2010
310,000 
June 15, 2011
320,000 
December 15, 2011
325,000 
June 15, 2012
335,000 
December 15, 2012
345,000 
June 15, 2013
360,000 
December 15, 2013
370,000 
June 15, 2014
380,000 
December 15, 2014
390,000 
June 15, 2015
405,000 
December 15, 2015
415,000 
June 15, 2016
425,000 
December 15, 2016
440,000 
June 15, 2017
455,000 
December 15, 2017
465,000 
June 15, 2018
480,000 
December 15, 2018
495,000
___________________
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
1.
Goods under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, 
Page  10
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.
2.
Goods under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Works and Goods under Subprojects
Goods MinoSmall and works required for the carrying out of subprojects under 
Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured by Recipients Beneficiaries (a) under 
national shopping procedures in the case of goods, and (b) on the basis of a 
comparison of prices obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in 
the case of works; all in accordance with the Procurement procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual. Goods required for carrying out of subprojects under Part B.1 of 
the Project shall be procured by Recipients under National Shopping procedures. In 
exceptional cases, such as remoteness of the subproject site or unavailability of more 
than one source of goods, goods, goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five 
percent (5%) of the amount allocated to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured through 
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the Procurement procedures set forth 
in the Operational Manual.   
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) the first contract to be procured in accordance with each 
of the procedures referred to in Part B (1) and Part B (2) of this Schedule; (b) all 
contracts to be procured under direct contracting procedures; and (c) with respect to 
contracts to be procured, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 under subprojects: (i) the first three contracts for minor works and all contracts 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000 or more; and (ii) the 
first three contracts for goods and all contracts for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of more than $75,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: (A) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures or small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (B) prior to the execution of 
any contract procured under direct contracting or sshopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract under Part A of the Project not governed by 
paragraph 12 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
Page  11
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Audit services, follow-up evaluations of Subprojects and services under Part B 
(2) of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the 
procedures for least-cost selection of consultants, referred to in paragraph 3.6 of 
the Consultants’ Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for carrying out subprojects under Part B.1 of the Project may be 
procured by Recipients under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) contracts for audit 
services, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to the first three contracts for services under subprojects, 
the procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) above and the procedures set forth in 
subparagraph (b) above shall apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
and contracts for the employment of individual consultants respectively.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
Page  12
1.
The Borrower shall assign the general responsibility for Project implementation 
to SDFRSDF under an Subsidiary Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, and GSG and SDFRSDF under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed 
upon with the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby: (a) the 
Borrower, acting through GSG,  shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
SDFRSDF in the form of a grant budgetary allocation; (b) SDFRSDF shall be required to 
implement the Project in accordance with the SDFRSDF Law, the Operational Manual and 
the provisions of this Loan Agreement; and (c) SDFRSDF shall be required as part of 
its responsibility for Project implementation: (i) to prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
by March 31 in each year, for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for 
the Project; (ii) to maintain the Project financial records and accounts and to 
arrange for the audit thereof; (iii) to prepare applications for withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (iv) to assist the RecipientBenefsiciaries in the preparation of 
bidding and contract documents for activities to be financed under the Grant 
Agreement; (v) to supervise the implementation of the Project, including supervising 
the progress of each Subproject; and (vi) to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and 
the Bank, starting in June 1999, semi-annual reports on the progress of Project 
implementation, based on the indicators set forth in the Program.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure the adoption by the Steering Committee, on the basis 
of the SDFRSDF’s Law, of an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank to govern 
SDFRSDF’s activities under the Project. The Operational Manual shall cover such 
matters as: (a) eligibility criteria for RecipientsBeneficiaries; (b) the principles 
and procedures to be followed for the approval of Subprojects; (c) the terms and 
conditions to be included in the Grant Agreements; (d) the indicators to be utilized 
by SDFRSDF in monitoring the progress of the Project; and (e) the financial management 
system to be adopted by SDFRSDF to control the use of funds made available to it for 
purposes of the Project.  
3.
The Borrower shall cause SDFRSDF to ensure participation by 
RecipientsBeneficiaries, in accordance with the principles set forth in the 
Operational Manual, in the preparation of the Subprojects.
4.
Tthe Borrower shall: (a) take all necessary measures to ensure conclusion of the 
CESDF Loan Agreement not later than Mayrch 31, 1999; or (b) formulate, by such date, 
alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that all project funding 
requirements shall be adequately and timely met.
Part B:
Funding of Subprojects
1.
RSDF shall select Subprojects for financing from the proceeds of the Loan on the 
basis of an order of priority established in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
2.
RSDF shall provide financing for approved Subprojects on the basis of a standard 
agreement  agreed upon with the Bank (the Grant Agreement ), to be entered into 
between RSDF and each Recipient Beneficiary. The Grant Agreement shall include, inter 
alia:
(a) 
a description of the Subproject, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof;
(b) 
the amount to be provided by RSDF to the RecipientBeneficiary to assist 
in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(c) 
the implementation schedule for the Subproject;
(d) 
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the Operational Manual, shall be required to be made by the 
RecipientBeneficiary with respect to the financing of the Subproject for the 
implementation of which assistance is provided to such RecipientBeneficiary under the 
Grant Agreement;
(e) 
the obligation of the RecipientBeneficiary to procure small works, goods 
and services to be financed under the Grant Agreement in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual;   
Page  13
(f) 
the obligation of the RecipientBeneficiary to report to RSDF  on the 
progress of Subproject implementation and to enable representatives of RSDF and of the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit the facilities, construction sites or 
other activities to be financed under the Grant Agreement; and
(g) 
the obligation of the RecipientBeneficiary to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Subproject and financed from the proceeds 
of the Loan made available to the RecipientBeneficiary under the Grant Agreement and 
to submit to RSDF  at regular intervals statements with respect to such records and 
accounts.
3.
RSDF shall: (a) obtain the Bank’s prior approval of the first three Grant 
Agreements  proposed by it in each of the Subprojects categories of infrastructure, 
income generation and social services Ssubprojects; and (b) include in the progress 
reports referred to in Ppartagraph A (12) (vif) above, based on externally contracted 
annual reviews of sample of completed Subprojects, information and analysis adequate 
to support the conclusion that the selection of Subprojects and of Recipients 
Beneficiaries and the determination of the terms and conditions of Grant Agreements 
are all made in accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational Manual.
Part C:
Institutional Support
RSDF shall: (a)  prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
concurrence, an action plan to increase the capacity of RSDF to perform the functions 
assigned to it under the RSDF’s Law, including an estimate of RSDF’s needs for 
technical assistance, training and operating equipment and facilities; (b) adopt such 
plan under a decision of the Steering Committee, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon; (c) thereafter implement such plan in accordance with a 
time-schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
(1)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Program, the 
carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the Program;
(2)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about no later than September 15, 2000, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of 
this Part C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the 
Program during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(3)
review with the Bank, by no later than November 15, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this Part, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (43) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  14
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount up to the equivalent of 
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the [respective] 
Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
Page  15
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
