Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3886-SW
REPORT AND RECOD91ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPTENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.6 MILION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FOR A
CYCLONE REE4BILITATION (ROADS) PROJECT
JANUARY 10, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents way not otherwise be disclosed without lWorld Banl; authorization.



CURxECYc EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units                     Ealangeni (E)         Rand (R) /1
US$1.00                         -  E 1.90-
E                               =  USSO.526
WEIGHTS AND N.ASURES
1 meter (m)                       -3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 wiles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  =  2.45 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m .on)               2,204 pounds (lb)
1 kilowatt (kw)                    1.341 horsepower (hp)
GLoSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF           -  African Development Fund
CTA            -  Central Transport Administration
EEC            - European Economic CommunitY
xI'C           - Ministry of Works and Communications
ODA            - Overseas Development Administration
RDA            -  Rural Development Administration
RSA            - Republic of South Africa
SACU           -  Southern African Customs Union
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development
voc            - vehicle operating costs
vpd            -  vehicles per day
K_NGDOM OF SWAZILANJD
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
/1 The South African Rand is also legal tender in Swaziland.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIAZILAND
CYCLONE REHABILITATION (ROADS) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Government of the Kingdc-* of Swaziland
Amount:               US$8.60 million
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years, including a grace period of
four years, at the standard variab]e ILterest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed project would support the Government's
road rehabilitation program prepared fcllowing the
damage caused by Cyclone Domoina which struck
Swaziland on January 29, 1984 and ravaged the country
for two days. The resultant torrential rains caused
extensive damage to the country's road network. The
project will: {i) help finance a two year
rehabilitation program to repair about 700 km of main
roads and approaches to key bridges both by contract
and about 500 km of district roads by force account;
(ii) provide technical assistance to enable the
Central Transport Administration (CTA) to
successfully fulfill its responsibilities with
respect to above activities; and (iii) finance
studies and detailed engineering for repair and
strengthening of high priority paved road sections.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits would be prevention of further
deterioration of the road system and its restoration
to precyclone levels of service, which in turn will
contribute, through reduced transport costs, to the
restoration of the Swaziland economy. The principal
risk is that the condition of the road system will
deteriorate more rapidly than expected and thus
project costs will increase or the desired quality of
*                                rehabilitation will not be achieved.  This risk has
been addressed by the inclusion of adequate
contingencies and adoption of a processing timetable
which will enable work to commence after the 1984/85
rainy season.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i-
SUunry of
Project Cast:
Local   Forelgn   Total
USS Millions-
I. Two Year Road Rehabilitation Program
A.  Rehabilitation of about 500 km
of District Roads by force account    0.77     2.53      3.30
B.  Rehabilitation of about 700 km
of msin roads by contract             1.03      3.68     4.71
C. Rehabilitation of approaches to
key bridges.                          0.11      0.28     0.39
II. Technical Assistance to CrA                0.06     0.45      0.51
III. Other Consulting Services                  0.05     0.44      0.49
Base Cost                                 2.02      7.38     9.40
IV. Contingencies
A. Physical                               0.25      0.75     1.00
B. Price                                  0.41      1.29     1.70
Subtotal                               0.66     2.04     2.70
Total Project Cost                        2.68      9.42    12.10
Total (Excluding Taxes and Duties)         1.90     9.42    11.32
V. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                  -        0.02     0.02
Total Financing                           1.90     9.44    11.34
_          _        -



-iii-
Local Foreign Total
-US$ million-
Flnancing:
Government         1.68      -        1.68
USAID               -       1.06      1.06
Bank               0.22     8.38      8.60
Total              1.90     9.44    Ii.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       FY85     FY86    FY87       FY88
--US$ million-------
Annual        0.54     2.89      3.98     1.19
Cumulative    0.54     3.43     7.41      8.60
Rate of Return:              Rehabilitation of Main Roads:       75 percent
Rehabilitation of District Roads:.> 16 percent
Appraisal Report:            None
,ap:                          IBRD No. 18533
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAIN TO THE KINGDOf OF SWAZILAND
FOR A CYCLONE REHABILITATION (ROADS) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Swaziland for the equivalent of US$8.6 million to
help finance a Cyclone RehabIlitation (Roads) Project.  The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including four years' grace, and standard variable
interest rate.  Additional external financing of US$1.06 million equivalent
for the project would be provided by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID).
PART I - THE ECONOIIY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled -Economic Memorandum on
Swaziland- (No. 3028-SW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 20, 1981. An updating economic mission visited Swaziland in December
1984. Some findings of that mission have been incorporated in this
report. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Swaziland is one of the smallest countries on the African
continent; located in southern Africa, it is surrounded by the Republic of
South Africa (RSA) and Mozambique. In 1982, its population was estimated
at slightly more than 641,000, including about 15,000 Swazis who live
abroad, mainly as migrant workers in South Africa. The population is
increasing rapidly at a rate of about 3.6 percent per annum. Relative to
its size and population, the country is well endowed with natural resources
and has good potential for development. It has some mineral deposits and
its soil and climate are favorable to diversified agricultural production.
4.        The economy is highly dualistic.  The modern sector, which is
largely foreign owned, consists of mining (asbestos, coal), large-scale
plantations of forestry, sugar, citrus and pineapples, and associated
industries such as pulp, sawmilling, sugar and fruit processing. The
modern sector also includes hotels and other tourist-related activities.
The traditional sector, on the otber hand, is based largely on cattle
raising and subsistence agriculture (maize, groundauts, sorghum). The
*           dualistic nature of the economy has limited distribution of benefits from
the comntry's resources; while 1982 per capita GDP was estimated at US$940,
incomes in the traditional rural sector that supports half the population
probably averaged less than US$60. However, slightly over half of the
rural families receive regular remittances of about US$160 per capita per
annum from family members employed in the wage earning sector.
5.        This economic dualism is to some extent a reflection of the
government structure. The Queen Regent, who succeeded King Sobhuza II who
died in 1982, rules the modern Government through an appointed Cabinet of



-2-
4inisters which manages the country's normal economic activities and
provides the bulk of services to the people. In traditional matters
concerning Swazi Nation Land (this term refers to about 60 percent of the
territory of Swaziland which is held communally for the Swazi people by the
Queen Regent), the Queen Regent relies on the advice of the Swazi National
Council, a group cf senior Swazi chiefs and leaders. When the modern
Government becomes involved in developing the Swazi Nation Land's
agricultural and mineral resources, coisiderablP deliberations by both the
Cabinet and Council are required. Consequently, economic change has been
slow on Swazi Nation Land in contrast to the modern agricultural sector's
rapid development.
6.        Swaziland's economic performance from 1977 through 1981 was
satisfactory, with real growth averaging about five percent per year,
although with substantial year-to-year fluctuations, due in large part to
the impact of large investment projects in the sugar and chemical
industries. In most years through 1981, fiscal policies were restrained,
and the Government built up large credit balances with the banking system
through successive surpluses in the riscal accounts. However, in 19S1/82
the Government ran a large fiscal deficit, equal to about nine percent of
estimated GDP, in part because of a reduction in Southern African Customs
Union (SACU) receipts, but also because of a sharp increase in re-current
and capital expenditures, resulting in a decline in the Government's
deposits with the banking system. 1981 was also the first year in which
the country experienced a deficit in its overall balance of payments.
Exports stagnated because of a sharp drop in international sugar prices,
reflecting the beginning of a recession in that industry that continues to
the present.
7.        Recession in the RSA, combined with the drought that affected
maize output throughout the Southern African region, resulted in an
estimated fall of real output of about one percent in 1982. In that year,
an increase in the SACU receipts resulted in a decline in the fiscal
deficit to about three percent of GDP. Despite the difficulties of the
sugar industry, the deficit on the current account of the balance of
payments was reduced from US$72 million in 1981 to USS50 million in 1982,
in part due to the sharp devaluation of the Rand to which the Swazi
currency is pegged. At the same time, the overall balance of payments
deficit was eliminated.
8.        The balance of payments in 1983 is estimated to have shown a
further reduction in the current account deficit to US$42 million or 8
percent of GDP, with most of the improvement coming from the non-duty
elements of SACU receipts, which were US$9.0 million higher than in 1982.
Exports are estimated to have risen by only 2 percent, as an increase in
sugar and asbestos receipts was largely offset by a substantial drop in
fertilizer and other industrial exports. Imports, which are projected on
the basis of only first quarter data, are estimated to have risen by 2
percent. The increase in food imports necessitated by the drought offset,
to a large extent the decline in chemical imports, most of which are used



as inputs to fertilizer exports. Only partial information is available on
capital flows: there was little change in identified capital flows
(primarily long-term capital and direct investment), which have been fairly
steady since about 1980. However, the short-term capital movements
increased substantially in the last half of 1983, during which time net
foreign assets of the banking system increased US$16 mdllion more than
might be expected from normal seasonality. Part of these sharp changes in
capital flows during 1983 probably represents changes in short-term
borrowing by Swazi resident foreign firms induced by the substantial
changes which occurred in interest rate differentials between Swaziland and
international capital markets, primarily London. Overall, there was a
surplus of US$13.5million. At the end of 1983, net foreign assets were
E 105 million, or over two months of imports of goods and services.
9.        During 1983 Swaziland accumulated about US$13 million in public
and publicly guaranteed external debt, bringing the total outstanding and
disbursed to US$192.2 million, equivalent to about 29 percent of GDP.
Fifty-three percent of the total is from multilateral sources and 38
percent from bilateral sources. Debt service payments in 1983 amounted to
US$11.2 million, or only about 3 percent of the exports of goods and
services.
10.       In general, prospects for Swaziland's economy are, however, not
very favorable over the medium-term. After the rapid economic growth
experienced during the 1960's and 1970's, future growth appears constrained
mainly by the shortage of skilled manpower and the presence of unfavorable
terms of trade prospects. The Government's efforts to diversify the
country's export base, which have been only partly successful in the past,
are the key to future economic development. The country"s creditworthiness
position is expected to deteriorate somewhat during the remainder of the
decade. However, if as pursued by the authorities, prudent debt management
is enforced, the debt service will remain within manageable limits.
The Cyclone
11.       On January 29, 1984 Swaziland was struck by Cyclone Domoina which
ravaged the country for two days. Extensive damage was caused throughout
*           the country, not so much by winds, which were generally below 80 kph, but
by severe flooding from the intense rainfall accompanying the cyclone.
During the two day period the entire country experienced the highest
precipitation ever recorded.  Although rainfall recorded at points across
the country has a return period of 100 to 200 years, the fact that it was
so widespread made the resulting floods a unique occurrence. Estimates
from South Africa, based on the river velocities recorded locally, put the
flood return period at approximately 500 years.
12.       The whole country suffered from the effects of the cyclone, with
most severe damage occurring to the roads and bridges, the railways and, to
a lesser extent, the power distribution installations. Relatively minor
damage was caused to telecommunications, water supplies particularly in the



-4-
rural areas, rural health facilities and small scale irrigation works.
Surprisingly little damage was done to crops. Fatalities caused by the
cyclone totaled over 335.
13.       A Ministerial Disaster Committee was appointed on February 6,
1984 in the Ministry of Interior and Immigration, to assess the damage and
take immediate steps to avoid a breakdown in the economy. The Government,
with the assistance of consultants and technical assistance financed by
bilateral aid agencies, notably British ODA and USAID, estimated the damage
at about E 58.3 million (US$30.7 million). Of this about E 43.0 million
(74 percent) was estimated for rehabilitating roads and bridges, E 11.0
million (19 percent) for railways, E 2.0 million (3 percent) for power
distribution and E 2.3 million (4 percent) for other services. However,
following a detailed inventory of damage to the road network, the estimated
damage to roads and bridges has been put at E 30.5 million (US$16.0
million).
14.       Four other committees were established to deal with the emergency
situation. A Donors' Committee was charged with the responsibility of
collecting and disseminating information on affected areas and the most
urgent needs, and of coordinating the effort to provide food and shelter
for families rendered homeless by the disaster. A committee chaired by the
Ministry of Works and Commanications (MWC) and comprising representatives
of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Land Utilization and Energy, and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives was entrusted with the
implementation of the emergency program of clearing the roads and effecting
short term repairs. With the assistance of private commercial farmers who
supplied heavy equipment from their own resources, all areas of the country
were made accessible by road. Many temporary bridges, culverts, fords and
detours were constructed.
15.       During the period of emergency efforts, contributions in cash and
kind totalling about US$1.8 million were received from the Goverrments of
the United Kingdom, the USA, Italy, Belgium, Australia, the Federal
Republic of Germany, che EEC, the UN Agencies, the Swiss Red Cross,
Lutheran World Federation and relief organizations from Canada, Denmark,
the Netherlands, Norway, and the United States. The largest contributors
to the initial emergency relief effort were the United Kingdom (US$0.5
million for Bailey Bridges and engineers) and the USA (US$0.4 million for
health clinics and irrigation repairs). In addition, Soath Africa assisted
with two helicopters for relief work, tents, blankets and commercial
credits for emergency railway repairs and Israel provided medical supplies.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
16.       Swaziland's economy is highly dependent on external trade.  For
months after the cyclone, main roads were cut and the rail links which
carry most of the processed sugar traffic were inoperable. While the
temporary repair works carried out so far have enabled the main transport
links to be reopened during the dry season, the onset of the wet season is



-5-
bound to create bottlenecks in the free flow of commodities by rail and
road. The economy could suffer lasting damage if the reconstruction of the
country's vital transport system is delayed. The size of the
reconstruction program and the speed with which it will be carried out will
have a major bearing on Swaziland's economic performance during the coming
years.
17.       The Government has successfully reduced its budget deficit over
the past three yeats. By curbing new capital spending, the Government
managed to reduce the overall budget deficit from E 48.0 million in
*          FY81/82, 8.6 percent of GDP, to E 13.0 million in FY83/84, 2.0 percent of
GDP, but efforts to further reduce the deficit have been seriously hampered
as a result of the cyclone. The Government now plans to spend E 159
million in recurrent expenditures, seven percent more than originally
budgeted, and E 97 million for investment programs, 24 percent more than
budgeted. At the same time revenues are expected to increase by only five
percent to E 209 million, representing a four percent shortfall on budgeted
levels which will result in a deficit of up to E 35 million or about 5
percent of GDP. The budget for 1984/85 will be greatly affected by the
cost of repairing cyclone damage, which must be the first priority for
expenditures. In order to finance cyclone rehabilitation projects, the
Government intends to reallocate E 20 million which will cause temporary
suspension of capital investment in new road construction, as well as
capital investments in agriculture, health and education sectors. The
anticipated budget deficit in FY85/86 is expected to be on the same order
as that in FY84/85 (E 35 million). The borrowing requirements needed to
finance such deficits cannot be met by commercial borrowing without some
adverse impact on developmental programs in Swaziland.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
18.       The Bank Group began operations in Swaziland in 1962 and has
approved 11 loans, two credits and one IFC investment for a total of US$77
million. These have helped finance three road projects, two power
projects, three education projects, and projects for rural development,
water supply and sewerage, a development finance company and an irrigated
*           sugar estate and factory (IFC).  Implementation of the on-going projects is
proceeding satisfactorily.
19.       In the transport sector the Bank provided a US$2.8 million credit
to Swaziland in 1963 (Credit 20-SW) to assist in financing the construction
of 181 km of two-lane, all-weather highway across Swaziland. The project
was completed satisfactorily at a cost very close to the appraisal
estimate. The Second Highway Project, (Loan 1108-SW, US$7.0 million,
1975), helped finance two paved roads, Tshaneni-Mlaula (39 km) and
Helehele-Siphofaneni- Phuzumoya (43 km).  The project was completed on
schedule, and the Project Performance Audit Report of June 26, 1981
concluded that the project was prepared and executed satisfactorily. The
Third Highway Project, (Loan 1619-SW, US$11.0 million, 1978), helped
finance the construction and upgrading of the Manzini-Mhkondvo and the



-6-
Big-Bend River Roads to paved standards and the strengthening of the Roads
Branch maintenance capacity. The project was completed satisfactorily in
late 1983, and a Project Completion report ls being prepared.
Unfortunately, all roads completed under these three Bank-financed projects
suffered damage as a result of the cyclone.
20.       A summary of Bank Group operations is given in Annex II.  The
Bank aims to continue assisting Swaziland with projects for education, road
rehabilitation and agriculture, particularly in smnall-scale farming.
21.       Debt to the Bank as a percentage of total debt (disbursed and
outstanding) increased from 17 percent in 1975 to about 27 percent in
1982. The Bank Group's share in total public debt service in 1983 amounted
to 24 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
22.       The transport infrastructure comprises about 2,800 km of road,
289 km of railway, a 20 km cableway, an international airport and several
airstrips. The road network carries most import traffic. The cableway,
located in the northwest, transports asbestos over rugged terrain from
Havelock to a railhead in South Africa. There are no pipelines or
navigable rivers. Export trade and petroleum product imports are carried
by the railway which traverses central Swaziland and is linked with the
Mozambique railway and the port of Maputo to the north and the South
African railway and the port of Richards Bay to the south.
23.       Development of road transport in Swaziland consists largely of
upgrading existing road links which generally provide good accessibility,
but in many cases are of poor quality. The need for selective upgrading of
roads and improving road maintenance is recognized by the Government as of
high priority.
24.       The Government 's present policy is to facilitate development,
particularly in rural areas, by improving transport services, expanding the
transport network especially district roads in areas of high economic
potential, and reducing transport costs both within the country and betwe.-
Swaziland and the neighboring countries. Investments in the transport
sector have remained stable in recent years, amounting to E 25 million in
FY79 and E 22 million in FY83 of which that on roads, account for about
half.
25.       Virtually all of Swazilandts exports are carried by rail.  In the
past this was through the Maputo port in Mozambique, but construction of
the southern rail link to join the South African Railways now enables
routing also through South African ports. The Government is presently
constructing a railway link with the South African railway network to the
north where it will provide the means of reducing the transit distance from



-7-
the Transvaal north of Swaziland to Richards Bay and Durban south of
Swaziland by over 200 km. Swaziland will benefit more from revenue
generated by these transit activities than from expansion of domestic
activity. The Government formed the Royal Swaziland National Airline in
1977 to counter Swaziland's existing dependence on foreign air carriers and
the existing routing of all international traffic through South African
airports. The airline presently operates one B737, one F28 and one smaller
aircraft to serve neighboring countries particularly countries in the
region.
26.       The Department of Economic Planning and Statistics coordinates
transport planning, reviews all investment proposals and determines
relative priorities. Proposals are put forward by the various ministries,
most notably the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) which includes
the agencies concerned with road, rail and air transport. In order to
ensure that economic criteria are applied in selecting infrastructure
projects, the Government has established a planning unit in the MWC,
staffed by Swazi nationals with a British financed adviser. In recent
years the Government has extended the Matsapha airport runway, extended the
railway into RSA to the south, and is in the process of completing the
further railway extension into RSA to the north. Thesse projects are cf
doubtful economic viability, but in the case of the tailway the Government
was under some regional pressures. Except in these cases, the Government's
transport infrastructure program has been economically justified.
Road Sector
27.       The officially declared highway network totals about 2,800 km of
which 39 percent are earth roads, 43 percent have a gravel surface,   2
percent have a low standard bituminous seal, and 16 percent are paved.
About 1,500 km are classified as main roads and the balance, district
roads. Notwithstanding the low standard of much of the network, traffic
volumes are considerable and are growing rapidly. Traffic flows are
highest on Mbabane-Manzini Road which carried several thousand vehicles per
day (vpd); other main roads carry traffic of 200 to 500 vpd while district
roads support less than 200 vpd. The exact composition of the trucking
fleet operations in Swaziland is not available, but it is almost entirely
within the private sector, and South African vehicles handle a substantial
proportion of the traffic, particularly international.
28.       The Roads Bra-uch of the MWC is responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of all officially designated roads. The Roads
Branch headquarters in Mbabane handles planning, new construction and
periodic maintenance; routine maintenance is done locally by four regional
district offices. Three of the five posts for engineers are filled by
local Swazis who graduated recently from the American universities. The
British ODA had, until December 1983 financed expatriate staff to fill all
engineering posts in the Roads Branch. Following the cyclone, ODA has
agreed with Government to continue to finance three engineers to work in
the Roads Branch, including a Senior Roads Engineer. Two more engineers
financed by USAID will supplement Roads Branch resources to assist with the
implementation ofthe pcoposed project.



-8-
29.       The Central Tramport Adain stration (CMIA, also under the MIC,
is responsible for buying, ma-Entaining and repairimg all clvilarn
government equipment and vehicles, wbich are earmarked and hired otut to
user agencies at established rates. CM suffers from poor management and
as a consequence fleet availability and profitability have been poor in
recent years. For this reason, provisions are made in the project for
three advisors to work in CIA for a two year period (paras. 44, 49 and
50). The Government intends to limit the demands on CTA in the future by
entering into contracts with local garages for major vehicle repairs.
These garages are associated with sain vehicle mnufacturers and have spare
capacity.
30.       Road construction is carried out mostly by contract with all
large contract works being carried out by foreign contractors. The
Government also maintains a register of contractors who are qualified to
bid for Government contracts. This register comprises some 90 contractors,
including 30 who are specially registered for civil engineering work as
distinct from buLlding work. Almost all the contractors are controlled and
managed by expatrLates living in Swaziland. The MIC also has a
construction unit which undertakes improvements to district roads and some
rehabilitation work on unpaved main roads. Both contract and force account
works are executed satisfactorily to a high standard relative to other East
African countries.
31.       While routine maantenance on roads is carried out entirely by
force account, periodic regravelling and resealing are shared between the
locally based contractors and the MUC's three regravelling units and one
bitumen unit. The standard of road maintenance has improved following
provision of technical assistance and training under the Third Highway
Project. Road maintenance funds are generally adequate.
32.       Faced with an increasing requirement for road transport, the
Government has devoted more public funds to the upgrading of highly
trafficked sections of the main road system. During the Third National
Development Plan (1978-82) seven major road projects were completed and
total expenditure on highway development amounted to E 43 million. In
addition, some district roads have been improved with assistance from the
British ODA and other unclassified roads in the rural areas are being
constructed under the Government's Rural Development Administration (RDA)
Program. The Government historically has financed most of its highway
improvements through loans and grants from external sources, but in recent
years it has allocated more locally-generated resources to road
construction. All recurrent and maintenance expenditures are financed from
budget sources. These expenditures have increased from about E 1.9 nillion
in FY80 to E 3.5 million in FY83. Road users contribute to government
revenue through taxes and duties on vehicles, fuel, lubricants and spare
parts and through licenses and registration fees. No precise data are
available on total revenues collected from road users because all customs
and sales duties on goods imported into the Customs Union area are paid



-9-
into a common revenue pool, and are disbursed according to a complex
formxla. Apart from license fees, transport fuel taxes are estimated to
amount to approximately E 5.5 million-more than adequate to cover road
maintenance expenditures and some of the capital investments. The license
fees, which are not paid into the common revenue pool, are set by the
Swaziland Government; this source yielded about E 1.0 million in FY83.
33.       The Bank's strategy in the sector is te support programs that
assist the Government in achieving its objectives of lowering transport
costs and improving accessibility.  This includes strengthening the
Government's capability to maintain its road network and improve its
highway administration. Due to employment opportunities in South Africa,
wage rates in Swaziland are relatively high. Thus the Government has not
experimented with labor-intensive techniques in implementing its major road
construction and maintenance programs. However, where volunteer labor is
available, attempts are being made to construct some rural roads using
labor rather than heavy equipment.
Damage to the Transport Sector
34.       An immediate consequence of the cyclone and the floods was the
breakdown of road and rail communications. Bridges, culverts and drainage
structures and bridge approaches suffered the worst damage with almost
total destruction of several key bridges in the basic road network and the
rail links with Mozambique and the RSA.
Railways
35.       Both the northern rail link to Mozambique and the southern link
to the RSA were severed. The sugar industry was seriously affected as all
exports of sugar and molasses are transported by rail either to Maputo in
Mozambique or to Richards Bav in the RSA. Three bridges on the southern
link between Siphofaneni and Lavumisa were partially washed away and
stretches of the rail track were damaged. Near the Mozambique border on
the northern link, extensive damage to the rail tracks occurred on both
sides of the border.
36.       The Government has erected temporary bridges on the southern link
which is now operating at slow speeds. Permanent works are planned with
construction assistance from the RSA. Mozambique had reopened the rail
access to Maputo harbor. The Government has not requested any assistance
from the Bank for railroad rehabilitation.
Roads and Bridges
37.       The entire road netvork was affected by the flood waters with the
worst damage occurring in tie low veld. While most of the roads, apart
from the structures, stood up to the ravaging waters, an 82 km section of
the newly constructed Mhkondvo River - Mahamba road (financed by AfDF)
which skirts the Mhkondvo River, collapsed through severe erosion and



- 10 -
slippage of adjacent land. Surface damage, embankment failures, erosion
avd silting of drains and damage to culverts and other drainage structures
occurred over the entire road network. Six main roads were cut by failures
of bridges and bridge approaches at key points, in addition to the
destruction of the 82 km section of the AfDF financed Mhkondvo River -
Mahabba road. The worst damage to Bank financed roads was to the Nggwavuma
River bridge on the Big Bend - Nggwavuma River road and the failure of
approaches to the Lusutfu and Mhkondvo River bridges on the
Manzini-Mhkondvo River road and to the Mzimphofu River bridge on the
Relehele - Big Bend road.
38.       A crash program mounted by the Government has enabled most roads
-o be re-opened to dry season traffic. The works were executed using local
resources and equipment borrowed from a USAID agricultural project.
However, much of the repair work is of poor quality and may last through
only one rainy season. The British ODA has financed the erection of Bailey
Bridges at three important river crossings. Other river crossings,
including a major crossing at Big Bend, can be traversed by reopening
existing low level bridges to dry season traffic. Although the Bailey
Bridges are intended as temporary measures, they will last a few years if
they are regularly inspected and properly maintained. Thus, the prompt
British intervention has eliminated the immediate need for bridge
reconstruction in at least three key river crossings. Only one major
crossing needs immediate attention, namely, the reconstruction of the
bridge at Big Bend which will be financed by the British ODA.
Managing and Funding of Permanent Relief in the Transport Sector
39.       The magnitude of damage to the transport sector and cost
estimates for construction of permanent works has compelled the Government
to seek external financing and technical assistance. While repairs to the
other sectors have been largely completed, the highest priority road
rehabilization works will take two years further to complete. Compressios
into a shorter period is considered beyond the Government physical and
absorptive capacity. Following a Government request for assistance in
project preparation, a Bank mission visited Swaziland in February 1984 to
(i) assess the damage and destruction; (ii) evaluate the irmediate action
required to restore the transp-rt network; aud (iii) determine a possible
role for the Bank in the reconstruction process.
40.       Soon afterwards, t:e Government, commenced preparation of a road
rehabilitation program using technical assistance financed by the British
ODA and USAID. This program preparation which was completed in July 1984
is sound and has also received the endorseiezt of the AfDF, British ODA and
USAID. The capital expenditures planned before the cyclone has been
reduced to accommodate an adequate Government participation to the
rehabilitation work. Similarly about E 6.6 million of funds earmarked for
recurrent expenditures have been reallocated for road rehabilitation. The
overall program, of which the proposed project will form a part, involves a
total expenditure of E 30.5 million over a five year period (see Annex IV).



- 11 -
41.       The importance of the project arises from the need to prevent
further deterioration of the road network by commencing the rehabilitation
works at the end of the 1984185 rainy season. The proposed Bank loan of
US$8.6 million, USAID grant of $1.06 million, and the Governnent
contribution of $1.68 million would fund the project costs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by the MWC with the assistance of
engineers financed by the British ODA and USAID engineers working in
Swaziland. A Bank appraisal mission visited the country from August 1 to
17, 1984. Negotiations were held in Swaziland in December 1984. No staff
Appraisal Report has been produced.
Project Objectives
43.       The project objectives sre to (i) prevent further deterioration
of the road network; and (ii) restore the road network to the pre-cyclone
service levels. This will contribute through reduction of transport costs
to the restoration of the economy of Swaziland. The proposed loan would
significantly assist the Government in carrying out priority rehabilitation
works to repair damage on its road network over a two year period
(FY86-87).
Organization and Management
44.       The project would be implemented by the MWC using consultants and
technical assistance financed by the British ODA and USAID. The MMC will
undertake the works through its Road Branch in the normal course of its
duties with its own current establishment, supported by two civil engineers
financed by USAID to direct force account works in the field. This will
strengthen the capacity of HWC to plan and execute the road rehabilitation
program. The agreement between the Governmeat and USAID was signed in
August 1984 and became effective soon afterward. Staffing in the Roads
Branch has greatly improved recently and is now generally satisfactory
following the appointment of three graduate Swazi engineers and the
training of 25 highway technicians at the Swaziland College of Technology
under the Third Highway Project. The provision of three experienced roads
engineers, financed by the British ODA, to fill the post of Senior Roads
Engineer (Head of the Roads Branch) and other vacancies will enhance MWC's
ability to implement the project.
45.       The Government acknowledges the poor performance of the CrA--a
semi-autonomous agency under the MWC, which is responsible for the
procurement, repair and service of equipment and vehicles used by the
various government agencies. The project provides for the financing of
three advisors to the CTA (one advisor to the General Manager, one to the
Senior Mechanical Engineer and one to the Financial Controller) to
strengthen CTA and insure successful implementation of the project (pa-as.
50 and 51).



- 12 -
Project Description
46.       The project comprises:
(a) the implementation of a two year Program to
rehabilitate about 700 km of main roads by
contract, about 500 km of district roads by
force account, and reconstruction of
approaches to the Mhkondvo, Lusntfu and
Mzimpofu River bridges by contract;
(b)  provision of technical assistance to the CTA
consisting of three advisors; and
(c) other consulting services for (i) pavement
testing, feasibility and detailed engineering
studies for the rehabilitation of the
pavement structure of the Tshaneni-Nlawula
(37 km) and the Big Bend-Helehele (70 km)
roads, and (ii) construction supervision of
the civil works in (a) above to be executed
by contract.
Two Year Rehabilitation Program (FY86-87)
47.       The project provides for the rehabilitation of high priority
roads in the district road network and the main road network. Side drains
will be cleared of all silt and deuris and reconstractcd !O -re severe
erosion has taken place. The road formation will be restored and
regravelled, culverts and drainage structures which have been destroyed
will be replaced and others will be cleared and rehabilitated. All minor
bridges will be rehabilitated or reconstructed where necessary. The
original drainage will be improved if found technically desirable and poor
alignments will be redesigned.
48.       The rehabilitation of the district roads will be carried out by
force account by four road rehabilitation units, one operating in each
district.  The units will be created from the existing three gravelling
uuits and the construction unit of the Roads Branch of the MWC. The
project will finance additional items of equipment and vehicles, including
two vibratory rollers, 4 trucks, one low bed truck and the operating costs,
including fuel, for the four rehabilitation units over the two year project
period. The main roads will be rehabilitated by contract and Government
has commenced preparation of bidding documents.
49.       In addition, the project provides for the reconstruction of
approaches to three major bridges, which were washed away during the
cyclone. The Mhkondvo and Lusutfu River bridges are located on the
Manzini-Mhkondvo River road which was financed by the Bank under the
recently completed Third Highway Project. The Mzimpofu River bridge is
located on the Helehele-Big Bend road, financed under the Second Highway
Project.



- 13 -
Technical Assistance to CTA
50.       The CTA suffers generally from poor management. Productivity has
declined sharply since British-financed technical assistance was terminated
in mid-1983. Although control systems exist to manage and administer the
government fleet, they have not been enforced vigorously and financial
management and accounting practices are unsatisfactory. There is no
effective fleet renewal policy and equipment failures have become
commonplace with long delays in repair.
51.       The German Agency for Technical Cooperation financed a consultant
study to look into ways of improving CTA operations. The final report was
presented to the Government in October 1984. The report is satisfactory
and  recommends that, in the short term, managment should be strengthened
and all control systems should be restored. Provisions are made in the
project to finance advisors to the General Manager, Senior Mechanical
Engineer and Financial Controller to strengthen CIA management as quickly
as possible. This will enable CrA to repair and service equipment and
vehicles to be used in the District Roads Rehabilitation Program by force
account. Agreement would be reached with the Government that the
appointment of the three advisors will be made not later than July 1, 1985
(Section 3.021b of the draft Loan Agreement). These Advisors would inter
alia assist in the training of national staff of CTA to ensure continued
provision of adequate services after project completion.
Cc) Studies
52.       Provisions have been made for the testing of the pavement
structure of the Tshaneni-Mlawula (37 km) and the Helehele-Big Bend (70 km)
roads constructed with Bank financing under the Second Highway Project.
There were indications of pavement distress before the cyclone. Following
the cyclone, failures have occured at several points on the roads.
Reconstruction of sections of the pavement are expected to be necessary and
would be carried out in the second phase of the rehabilitation program.
Consultants will carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineering
including documentation for International Competitive Bidding.
Project Costs
53.       The total cost of the project, is estimated at US$11.34 million
including physical and price contingencies and a capitalized front-end fee
of US$21,446. Including taxes and duties,total project costs amount to
$12.12 million. Base costs are in December 1984 prices (see Table
below).  Total foreign costs amount to US$9.44 million or 83 percent
Contingencies for price escalation are based on rates of inflation for both
local and foreign currency of 14 percent p.a. in 1984 and 12 percent p.a.
thereafter. The inflation rates are based on current and projected
escalation of construction costs in Swaziland which follow closely the
costs in the RSA. The cost estimates are based on an inventory of damage
taken on each road section. Detailed engineering will not be required as
the major part of the rehabilitation works will consist of restoration of
side drains and road formation, regravelling and repair to drainage
structures.



- 16 -
1hdm   o1aec  C mi mR!!M   C                       Tt Fata
S2 w
(-E PKL  t-)       ( MXS KmoIll>
T. 1Mm Ya  Pld  _]i_ttfmi Pz
(J) ReldU1rtiz oE &me 500 '  oE
*bod I by fi :
(a) 2 F'b. CWIl Eimem (484                 0.11   L.06   17   0a.6   0.56   0.2   90
(b) 1o1adja1 Sezvlm CaCractx               0.m    0.9s   14   0.05   0.50   0.55   90
(fwlEbafg SPurasti/
(C) E        ad tdr.1em                     -     0.42   0.42    -      0.22   02  27D0
(d) CLvil Wad                              125   2.3    3.    06    I25    .91   65
Smac                                    1._6   4.81   6.Z    OX7   253   3.0   76
(U)   bLLtom    f *tl mt E M0 km of
asda r     r I1byL96   6.99   8.95   103   368   4.71   78
(tl)   -      -=u=.ai ef q     to tic
rgdMdva 1acfu ad ikLafu Rmr
bcidw4s'~/                                0.17   025    04    011   0.2    03    72
SmbO  (1)                               3.    12.M33  1592   1.91   6.4   8.40   77
. Tedzd     .stD t         ral Tnoq=c A&fn
I Va. Aviwo t  Cem lc 1.c r (24                0.04  0o3   O.2   0.IO     0S5   047   90
1 Ym AvLmr to tba S. idh. Frgiz.aw(24       Q  O04   0.3   0.3    00    0.15   0.17   90
I ro. blmr to the FiA    GomUr (24)    O0.0    0.S   0_V   OM.   0.5   047   90
Sub1al (ED                             0.12   0.8l6   096   0.06   0.45   0.5    90
C1)  P_   czlzg,   f rbIty
wd deaUd aleWtllg for
rdi1t-imz of Unw-4U4daw
(37 1k) aod Hedmle-Eg BNd
(70 k) r   i (15                          0.02   0.21   02    00    0.11   0.12   90
±) ntrucis  M-evl-mE I (ii) aw
Wi)  o 5 (2                               0.8   0.o3 0.71   0.04   0.3   0.3    90
S=bta (1ID)                            00   0.84  O.9  0J1   0.44   0.49   90
Be Cmt (er. 1984)                              3811  14.01  17.82   2.02   7.38   9.40   78
1V.   r    :tngne
CL)   E 5pical5/                               0.4S   1.42   1.90   OZS   0.75  100  75
(C) pd g6;'                                     0.78   Z.45   323   0.41   L29   1.70   76
Subt  (IV)                              1.26   3.87  5.1    0.66   2.04   2.70   76
Totad Pkoje±t  Ct                              5.07  17.88  2Z.95   2.68   9.42  1210   78
Toa Fkojer Ccwt (lE of Ta6s &1hies)            3.61  17.8   21.49   1.90   9.2  1132   83
V. From     Fee a     B Ik                            0l0o    0J         -     0.2   0.az  100
IUra.                                   3.61  17.2  21.53   1.90   9.44  11.34   83
,( 11.00 - E 1.90
7Z/ PAcd lc r byAiD (IluId  pcL  ad phsira
camezLqg.d.m at-i      Sim~ulr cam
tomitaws (W.965.000).
3/ FP1id IY ISUAD (Ines pb        ics  d Owslcsl
_        )atrwcm.
4, p,m=iv.e fflrmaq  up to US430.000.
I/ 2D .r     am I (1)(c) ad (d). 10 I    o I an I   I(I).  and IIL
8V/ Icig ad foteigan mr        to _acalate at 14 p
p.a. in 198 ad 12 prt p.mf dremd.



- 15 -
54.       The project would be financed as follows:
Local   Foreign     Total   x Participation
US$ Million
Government        1.68        -        1.68          15
USAID               -        1.06      1.06           9
World Bank        0.22      8.38       8.60          76
Total        1.90      9.44      11.34         100
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       The following table indicates the procurement procedures and
respective amounts:
Procurement Table
Procurement Method 1;/ and
Estimated Cost2/(US$ million)
Total Cost
Including Contingencies
Project Element    ICB    LCB    Other    N.A.3|      (USS Million)
Civil Works by
Force Account      -      -       -       2.79          2.79
(2.10)4I      (2.10)
Mech. Services       -    0.555/    -        -            0.55
Equipment and
Vehicles         -     -       0.28      -            0.28
(0.28)                (0.28)
Civil Works by
Contract         3.87   2.00      -        -            5.87
(3.39) (1.73)                          (5.12)
Technical
Assistance       -      -      0.65    0.625/         1.27
(0.58)                (0.58)
Consulting
Services         -      -      0.56      -            0.56
-      -     (0.50)    -            (0.50)
Total          3.87   2.55      1.49    3.41         11.320/
(Financed by Bank)(3.39) (1.73)   (1.36)  (2.10)         (8.58)
1/  ICB:  International Competitive Bidding; LCB: Local Competitive Bidding
Z/  Net of duties and taxes and including contingencies.
3/ N.A.: Not Applicable.
1/ Figures in parentheses show amount to be financed by the Bank.
5/  To be financed by USAII.
6/ Excludes capitalized Front-End Fee of US$0.02 million.



- 16 -
56.       Works: The rehabilitation of the main roads and the approaches
to the Lusutfu, Mhkondvo and Nzimpofu bridges estimatd to cost about
US$5.87 million will be executed under unit price contracts to be bid in
packages to be determined by the Government during project execution.
Altogether, 25 contracts are expected to be bid, including about 10
contracts of over US$300,000 in value up to US$3.87 million, to be awarded
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Because of the low technical requirements of the
rehabilitation works, there will be no contractor prequalification. About
15 contracts of less than US$300,000 in value up to US$2.0 million will be
subject to local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank (Section 2.03 amd Schedule 4, Parts A and B to the draft Loan
Agreement). In the latter case, advertisements will be placed in the
Official Gazette and local and regional daily newspapers with a note that
foreign contractors will not be excluded from the bidding.
57.       Goods and Services:  Procurement of equipment and vehicles up to
the value of US$280,00 will be procured through international shopping by
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. Consulting services and
techni.al assistance up to the value of US$1.21 million to be financed out
of the Bank loan will be employed in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.
58.       Contract Review:  The responsibility for reviewing and approving
contracts would be with the MWC. However, all contracts for civil works
over US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank and will cover
nearly 90 percent of value of such works. Other contracts for civil works
and procurement of equipments and vehicles will be subject only to
selective post-award review by the Bank. All bid documents, bid evaluation
and contract awards will be available for inspection by Bank supervision
missions.
59.       Retroactive financing of up to US$430,000 (5% of the loan amount)
would cover expenditures made after July 1, 1984 to reconstruct the
approaches to the Mhkondvo, Lusutfu and Mzimpofu River bridges (Schedule 2,
para. 4 of the draft Loan Afreement). Completion of permanent repairs to
these bridge approaches prior to the onset of the rainy season was vital to
allow the Helehele-Big Bend and Mkhondvo River Roads to remain open during
the current rainy season. The contracts for the reconstruction of the
approaches to the Mhkondvo and Lusutfu River bidges were awarded as one
package after LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The contract for the approach to the Mzimpofu River bridge is expected to
be awarded shortly.
60.       The Loan will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and
vehicles, and 90 percent if locally procured;



- 17 -
(b)  80 percent of total costs of all civil works executed by
contract;
(c)  75 percent of local expenditures for civil works executed by
force account; and
(d)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and consulting services and 90 percent of local
expenditures.
(e) initial deposit to the Special Account (Revolving Fund)
(f)  front-end fee (FEF)
61.       All disbursements will be fully documented to the satisfaction of
the Bank except disbursements for civil works to be executed by force
account, which would be made against statements of expenditures to be
certified by the MWC and disbursements for contracts for goods and services
valued less than US$10,000. The documents supporting these certificates
and statements will not be submitted for review but will be retained by MWC
for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Disbursements are expected to
be completed by December 31, 1987.
62.       Project disbursements for fuel and materials for force account
works and payments to contractors engaged on a large number of small
contracts are expected to be in small recurrent sums. In order to
facilitate prompt payments to suppliers and contractors the Government has
established a Special Account (Revolving Fund) in the Central Bank of
S-waziland. An initial deposit of US$1.0 million would be made from the
Loan Account to cover the initial four months of Bank disbursements. The
funds in the Special Account will be designated for expenditures on civil
works, equipment, vehicles and consultant services for the project.
Further deposits by the Bank from the Loan Account for the purpose of
replenishing the Special Account would be made against withdrawal
applications supported by appropriate documents.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
63.       Project accounts will be maintained by the MWC with separate
accounts for each component. In addition, a separate account will be kept
for the rehabilitation works to be carried out by force account. The MWC's
accounting system and staff are adequate to maintain satisfactory project
accounts. Auditing of the MWC is the responsibility of the Auditor
General. The Auditor General or an independent auditor appointed by him
would audit the project accounts annually including those for statements of
expenditures and Special Account (Revolving Funds), and not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year, the Bank would be furnished with
a certified copy of the project accounts and an audit report of sufficient
scope and detail.



- 18 -
64.       The MWC would also be responsible for project reporting which
shall consist of monthly progress reports giving the status of physical
execution of each component, contracts signed and their amounts, summary of
project problens and steps being taken to resolve them. In addition, the
MKC would submit a quarterly progress report which would include the
following: (a) progress on execution of each component compared with the
program to include an explanation of delays encountered; (b) project
expenditures and loan disbursements for each quarter and the cumulative
total to the end of the reporting quarter with a breakdown for each project
component (separating rehabilitation works by force account); (c) projected
estimates of final costs; and (d) a qualitative description of overall
progress. Upon completion of the project, the MWC would prepare a Project
Completion Report in a form satisfactory to the Bank within six months of
the termination of disbursements.
Project Benefits and Economic Justification
65.       The main economic objective of the project is to restore as much
of the road network as possible to pre-cyclone conditions. The benefits of
the road rehabilitation program are two-fold: to avoid longer travel
distances due to detours and deviations caused by road closures, and to
reduce vehicle operating costs. In the long term, road administration and
maintenance would benefit from the strengthening of the Roads Branch of MWC
and the CTA.
66.       It is impossible to predict accurately the effect of the rainy
season on roads should culvert rehabilitation and minor bridge repairs not
be undertaken. However, if the assumption is made that 50 percent of the
main gravel roads would become impassable for an average of half of the
rain season, the cost of traffic diversion would be near E 30 million per
year.
67.       The regravelling is an integrated part of rehabilitation as it is
vita: that once the drains, culverts and base and formation are restored, a
prope; surface that can withstand the relatively high traffic volumes is
provided. Without regravelling and other repairs, vehicle operating costs
(voc) would increase by an estimated 30 percent. Based on current traffic
volumes and characteristics, and with continued modest traffic growth rate
of six percent p.a. during a five year period for all vehicles, the sain
road rehabilitation program is expected to yield an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 75 percent. If only a 20 percent increase in voc was assumed, the
ERR would still be over 40 percent.
68.       With regard to the district roads, economic data is limited and
unreliable. The USAID and Government have carried out an economic snAlysis
encompassing an adequately wide range of traffic and cost assumptions,
under which the ERR is expected to be at least 16 percent. Furthermore
rehabilitation of the main and district roads is interdependent for the
restoration of production and income in the rural areas, and moreover, the
district roads provide the rural population with access to social,
educational and health facilities.



- 19 -
Risks
69.       The first risk is that the standard of the road system will
deteriorate more rapidly than expected, resulting either in higher project
costs or poorer quality rehabilitation. The second risk is that
implementation will be slower than expected and the third that costs will
be higher than forecast. These risks have been addressed by inclusions of
generous physical and price contingencies and the adoption of a processing
timetable which enables work to commence at the beginning of the next dry
season, and is consistent with experience in contract execution in
Swaziland. The fourth risk is that there will be little or no traffic
growth.  On that basis the ERR on the  main road program would still
approach 50 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Swaziland and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
71.       There are no special conditions for the project.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 10, 1984



-20-                                                ANNEX I
TANLE3A                                      Page  1 of  5
NWAZIUIID             - locim lucATc  VTa mot
suazxwmn                  mm~~~RF=nnCZ GRaUS Cunmun AVERACEE) Ia
MHOT                (MOT RECENT ESTIATE) lb 
uncut        NIDLK INCOUS          HIDDEN iTem
1gaJb!!   197CL/b    uSTIA&       mCA S. OI SAIASA   *- V. AFiCA  M ID EAST
MORND Sl-a 0)
TOTAL                               17.4        17.4      17.4
AGRICULTURAL                       14.7         14.9      12.9
cu P  CAIT  (D50)                    130.0       330.0      940.0             1112.9                 1149.6
-31    omsmwruau  a  cairn
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALT)       139.0        238.0     283.0              529.0                  622.1
UATION A  VITAL STLTISTCS
P0PULATION.NID-YEAR (TOWUSANDS)   345.0        £52.0     664.0
URBAN POPUIATION (Z OF TOTAL)       3.9         7.5       15.0               29.7                  4U.2
POPUlATION PROECTIONS
POPULATION 1N YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           1.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                             4.6
POPULATION MIOENTUM                                      2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PEA sq. M.                        19.9        26.0      36.9               55.1                   36.3
PER sq. Dl. AGRI. LAND           23.4         30.3      49.7              111.5                  461.7
POPULLATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YUS                         43.2        4.5       45.6               45.4                   43.6
15-64 YRS                        54.0         52.7      51.6               51.7                   53.1
65 AND ABE                        2.6          2.9       2.8                2.9                    3.3
POPULATION GHOSrS RATE (I)
TOTAL                             2.0          2.7       3.2                2.8                    2.8
URBN                             12.4          9.3       8.9                5.2                    4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE C(EP T100S)       52.1         52.1      51.1               47.0                   40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE  THOUS)       21.3         18.4      12.9               15.2                   11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4          3.4       3.2                3.2                    2.6
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS, ANINAL (THOUS)          ..           ..       4.2 /c
USERS (X OF  RRIED WMN)            ..          ..         ..                 ..                   22.2
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      68.0        104.0     107.0               91.6                   97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)      81.0        86.0      98.0               98.2                  110.8
PROTELIS (GRAMS PER DAY)         54.0         54.0      57.0               56.7                   70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.0        20.0       21.0 /d           17.0                   17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RA&E        33.2         31.4      27.0               18.7                   14.6
LIF EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       43.9         47.7      54.8               51.7                   57.5
INFA - HORT. RATE (PER TliO85)    152.0        145.5     130.4              102.7                 101.5
ACCESS T0 SAFE hATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      37.0 le            35.6                   59.7
URBAN                              _            _.       3.0 7;            5&.1                   us5
RURAL                               ..          ..      29.0 7             27.3                   36.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATIOS)
TOTAL                              ..           ..      36.0 Ie
URBAN                              ..           ..      99.0  .-
RURAL                              ..           ..      zs.O 7.
POPULATION PER PNTSICIAS         10150.0      6690.0    7670.0 If         11948.3                 4345.1
POP. PER !MRSIXG PERSON          3710.0 Ig    910.0    1010.0 7;           2248.9                 1831.1
POP. PERt HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            540.0       320.0     310.0 Ic           986.9                  632.9
URBAN                            30.0 4       40.0      70.0 7;           368.7                  545.5
RURAL                          12380.01     2110.0     760.0 7;&         4012.1                 2513.5
ADhISSIOXS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         17.6      24.7 lc              ,,                   26.2
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       6.1/c
URBAN                               ..          ..       5.7 7
RURAL                               ..          ..       S.8s7;7              ..
AVERASE NO. OF PERSONSIROOH
TOrAL                               ..          .         .
URBA                                                    ..                ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              5.0         9.0        4.                  .                    6.2
URBN                               ..           ..        ..                 ..                   77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 .                    16.1



ANNEX 1
-21 -                                                       Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3D.
SUAZILN                - SOCOAL C DICAroRS DATA SIEET
SMAZILAND        -                   IWERERCEI GROUPS (OIEICIWED AVERAGS) /a
mmST                (ST RbCElT ESTIIMTE) /b
RECENT       MIDDL EINCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
196OLb-   1970/1b    rST,1Tb        ARCA S. OP SAMA    S. AFRICL & IUD  AST
ADJSTD EN      8OLEM    RATIC.S
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    58.0         89.0      110.0               91.0                    88.3
HALE                    58.0         91.0      111.0               90.5                   I02.5
FEMALE                  58.0         86.0      109.0                73.6                   73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    5.0         19.0       40.0                17.4                   43.0
MALE                     5.0         21.0       41.0                23.7                   52.3
FEMALE                   4.0         16.0       40.0                14.8                   33.0
VOCATIONuAL (C OF SECONDArY)          4.7          2.3        0.8                 5.3                   10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                            37.0         40.0       33.0               38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                          13.0         18.0       19.0 /d             24.3                   23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                ..         29.2 lh   65.0                 35.6                   43.5
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          10.0 If       9.7       19.0 /f            20.7                    17.8
RADIO RECEIVERSITEUSAND POP           5.2         66.4      131.1               100.8                  138.8
TV RECEIVERSITNOUSAND POP              ,,           ,,        1.6                18.5                   46.1
NEVSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
FER THOUSAND POPULATION              ..           ..       13.4jj              17.2                   31.2
CINEMA A:NNAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       0.3          0.2        G.2 /e             0.3                     1.7
LAOM m
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           176.0        219.0      297.0
FEIALE (PERCENT)                   46.9         46.4       45.5                33.8                   10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         81.0       74.0                57.1                   42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          6.0        9.0               17.4                    27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              51.1         48.5       44.7                36.3                   26.2
MALE                               55.5         52.9       49.7               47.6                    46.4
FEMALE                             47.0         44.2       40.0               25.1                     5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9          1.0        1.1                1.4                     1.8
incoM DISTIRXUrIDO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED By
HICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSE8OLDS            --
LOCEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOIEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
PO-E! TGET GROUPS
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      281.0              525.3                   274.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      228.0              249.0                   177.2
ESTIMATED RE1ATrVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      Z26.0              477.4                   402.6
RURAL                                ..           ..      226.0               186.0                  284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (:)
URBAN                                ..           ..       45.0
RURAL                                ,,           ,,       50.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator cre population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries aeong the
lodicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwiue noted, -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for Moast Rcent Eatimate- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1976; /d 1977; /e 1975; If 1978; /A 1962; lh 1966; It 1965; a 1979.
JUNE. 1984



*--~~~~~~~~-is.in *-xl ii.Az 
"- elsisa iosias- '    _'-  1 --.3 - _-a     - -W 
-~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8o -1  _.t I"  TOM=afz   W  -   - 
*             as * sa.s  int     .23  ,is         n flsaa
_a}a-  isit   3.a.i  aiss   -:n..  n 6at? 3  n
~~~~~~~~s~~~~~~~-ti ac                                                          ea _s_e ,,5  en  in   *fli  i.    a. a
W..   _               -   a ::-s   .-              .   4   - 
__ .5 i ._*sat  *  n         -          ;      -, _   ,,,._-_
_~~~~~~~~~~~~-  --_**i .  *_-.                                              rt _         _     , -_   -     q  * -_._ _-:_-
-o_ -:  *.a_.!    _: _       s ,    f_ - Mla    *t' _  s
t.3   en  ;.a        tice   ain                                                                 in_ 1i-*    - ~w~s-  -  zx _.Y - _bv ~   _    -
__.....:-:t3_13 _i    1l    ........t...........-_ a  __fl                                             3*  t5   -      _3  _53   _5    Ii, _,a.......................... _...
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5   1s  _ -  -.   i.__3_z -a3: = -at_                                                       1     ,  3__  * a tas 
_ s_ W_~~~~~~~~~~~ ai   *_s.a. a_* __   L:__   arSs --                                       -  ..   _..    a..
qwwp.-n  .. e   .                 !   4.. 
IMI~~~~~~s d M; I                                                                                _ _  m'-'
- -   _ _.. e:- it'.  t r              333J3-            -=              tiit  .-a -           - 3a       Ja  - ..s. ..t  3. YSsn  .3_
____- ri............ _ _.: -.3.   .-.  :-  *-   - ._  _ sJ la..v z:~e_ 
1 _  :__As ;we , _'K_ --I-~ 1a_t= 9 _  a. .
-___-s-. -     ._ - - a_.   _ .-      _M_*. -.  _ -lam
twica,  han-t3.3  na   -am  _: _. aol 3..                       .           .............. -,.- _-,.  _            _-s_an .. _ _a
- .' a.-    -_z ,..  ai _t. _a   _3. _3e ii_. 1_en _i                           -:  _n  aid aa.i    _    .s--    _1s_ -_                 s. :
SI u.mis-   ma   :st     ^i  isle -isi  -. ratts                              .a.  - .   *.  a   .        isaS  a~--s   s  *--    a -n
Ys. .   w .33-n   _            -w            **      *.-- _is _i_    a                    i33a -a is..         i.w_       o.    ..3d. .3.r - ..;.au
a l.a-a      . - .-.d-3 a-        _- 554  a:   *a _r. _-vca                                       .in ,    _  i,s  s5,n -ei -         13W Sa
a.ol l_1   -|  _   hi*  n  ti__-_n _3 liaca-a --  hal_                        ;) i CIa    r Sn-1? a: a            .. --_~si  _na _i
a   ._a~ Sias _     n1   .   a '- a:M. .a. -- - -  Wd      a                 1        _ eI- -             a-   -. n -  _a        .   _ n   ;
_~~~~~~4    .._  -_                                                     -_  .1en    eta _-  r.e  _- s .7 _.   __as . snl. _ -e __3_ 
as in  .ma e_  W_1 _S s   tsea  0- _ _                                                   m       *       -
~--~    s _         Ds_ -_  s_s_ ,a-a                               -'-                    51_ - r   -         , ti-..;    _ la, ,
-Wm                                  .0m.~~~~~s-s W,f%        .l.-.Wrn       a  3fas*ae 
- -  enS.- en |_i a     is   I -.  _      __                _              Ja       !      .--.  - _               i--s Wm
i3 dtf*ta   .ri is            ateWVe   la5* -.a                         a:  iam ..1-.E A.-n-eaiet                      . e-n
_ _.i  _..   Ia        __l  -                 - -.  il.tin             _           J  .n- - _m i   _  J~a   -t.  _as .!   _30  _:
_~~~~~~~~-*_ r   _                                            e  -s ..-S_ _3~**  3aPs   _  ina  -_a   -t     is_,_ 
en   us..      _   _s.s-    t.t. -;    a    t -        l       _              -5. _33        e1-m      _1t -   ~             s _m         .i
-m _I_       _35   hi_  _s       _ Isi _.   is    - 0.,a-5-ji    .t.                               e3i         _l    -~ van-e  * _3e
__Si          en.   S.ta :-i ss   m z     -       -. a                          _     ,    _    _        _.an. en .      _.u 3l  -.    _-__a    .
:=1~~~~~e _n a ia. _1 u.sat    _  
3.a.               s  n           ulen _n _i.         en _ sai-                                a_a  a. ida   __            di-an   i
a.           t.  1  s  n--mms 
_  2-  _  _ |    K_s-    _t_                           _,   -    'ee    -~ - S.ati.  --   a                .~ '  -  - 
_ _~~~~~~~.,  .t_                                                  -    s asiss        _- .t_  T-   _,. _n   __- .t- 
eats~~~ _ea     _tli             __ a_                              _.a    -q ml_                            _
as a_ en _ _ __ _ T-  e- ensa in  -~                                 _          ti d3W. -Se =- _n  -_
_  _          -         _. .a   a^                                                _      a      _          _ is-nS  t_    _._ --iea    ni--i- ii-ss...-s
_-ie  ._ *g___- _i     .,_     -   'te    _ti  as_ .s         t                   en -s        3 -i St       ~.         u~ =n      e    ut
- .m.. Si Smiens  3 - (ist-Te  am            D                  _   _    _ - _   .              _  -  .                 _      C ~ i
_           __i r03m n                  _         _         a n            _ _n nis~l. ts
__  nuin  s                         .            _  _n._                         -_ ___ _as        im_ - _.- _s.a.             _e~ni
a    iai-   - :tn¶n    ma an   -              -                    m-sn -as       - a     -       Fd ena .    inen-
_0                __ _t   _     _s  .    _3i  _e _- _mi                        _ en:  _53.aa   _* in   -xw _if        -zs.5  
si   t~~~~~~~~~~~ wsen   t. _ _ne   en  _t.  _ ste. _5--a.(I
-_I    a.mi _   sii.                                  _ -w  _!~                                                                _ el a.m IiSnn   3is.    a
_    m   ste  _n  eni    _Iia   leet _               to                   antS          a. _i iss-                      _    - i  z Li eia,s
~~~~~-   wRen --.5iE:Zs. --. 'am                                                           a    ta_t    -s en _s   -  -.
en _o                   -                e  5 _       st = =  _  __ _                                                         mi_ 
T_                 _         _          _         _         __                   _ in.enat   -
le- td3 m na                  ___-a   a   senaetsm                             ii        C            att55m-__J as            ci en 
Si inn- £       e  asw n- ense.                     _na-t-mnata-i                                                          t



-23-
A1NEX I
Pag 4 of 5
mi nu
mm E      wM . Bw    3M        11                 A,L RAI      G        . =s,           )
c( 1inte dm  662.8)       lS lUn.    Z            197-8         198
GM at !'bat Pricse            6U.6       0O.0        5.0           L6
ccnw. Eic: in                 176.0      28.7         0.3           4.9
cms .1tza.l sarh               -LI        8.2         -             -
OQcs Oxsi rnusxm
cztzt A~zo Rol                -60.2       9.8         -             -
ra     f Co  E            3 7        6(\4        12.0            02
lag sof doos, NVS               3.4      951          6.2           4.7
C-
arEP, TAM FaE AID
I r          'r tI 2982
Value                  labw Famte 2/        V A. Per 1WxI.e
IaS2      P%ns.    £                         13S S
A1rn1nse                      109.0      25.1          .197    78          554       32.4
r=M=y                         131.1      31.2          .025    ID         5M9       313.8
SeLV4S                        186la      43.4          .03     12         65         371.5
TaCa/e                   429.5      100.0         -IlQO
CO-ER£M FNEEK
c  in.)       Z of Glop              Saml. )          z of GP
197           197    196 -7        1938 19      88   B-m - 538
(tazrrm !0Ce12C3                                      190.0       29.5         29.0
Cuent Fq3i                                            133.0       2&.0         D2
Qwrez Surpis                                          -37i-       -8:9
Capital E   ,ir                                        75.6       11.7         16
EateL   _sitm  (nC)                                   -0_5        -01           0.6
MOEY,        ; Cm= m                   1979     191W     1981     1982     1983
(Lion a1. -zscaxffc -m! -RO           -
?tMY aid Q      - IB                   118       136      162      16t       198
Balk Greaft to       t                -51        -65      -52      -35      -16
dr C edit t Privae Seccro              85        98       133      141      154
f                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Peramna  of Trd  N    P
Mau  anx  Qtmdiiy as Z                 31.P6      28.8     25.6     2iL2     30.7
Gra. Paice p 1 T  (197.10M)3/          152.4     181.6    216.7   243.6    292.0
asmi pmiem          duqps 1n
eml Ptice                             1 5.1      19.2     19.3     12.,     15.8
Blak Crt  to PabUc 
Badc alir to Privte S.Ctor4           13.9      15.3    35.7       6.0      9.2
XYMES- AL  :ke         to dblaz in this table ae at the averax  pEmlbg
I/ Estt inda ms!
2f fTe m c   Is deWas pew   eqplaymn tie w'tsecCOr pbs I   Stibe uin
oar'- is in the tralltinm sectr  ewhdes 25.000 ae em  in Saith Africa.
31 o mwrA, Pdic  im  is availale; I    relate to ice   m  fIls in tie ais dtis
of Mbbo  aid Mui
41 end 0:ter.
..nr smaJab
nlot Wplcable
ue 19S8



24
A2 I
Page 5 of 5
RasIE ELW5 AD CARE F
UAT*RE cF ME                                              PELADEEM   (Averag 1981-83)
1981     1S92     1983
QfflIlm  s W)                  ,SMln.  Z
Exports Ef Qo l, NS          391.4     322.5    3.1       Saw                   116.9  33.9
lprt aE Cois, IES            531.      453.3   499.8    Wood kad 1Vak&xcts   59.1   17.2
de Bal2                     -3M.7   -13.D8   -1I.7         afcal Fetfli e        42.9   12.4
Nmr-fMCb3r Serviaes (Cn)     -44.3    -17.8   -180       Fzuits (ruly dtrus)   27.5    8.0
}Al a    1  8wm  (re)          07       0Q7      -1.8    Adat                    15    5.4
ers'   *i                     21.6      25.9     26.9
Otfr Facwr so- (t)    -19.0              4.7    -3.6
Nert Tazsfezs                 24.3      39.6    4L6      An   ae UO&Ix           79.7   23.1
na2c Oas re  A a            -126.4    -87.1   -77.6              Toal         379C6  100.0
EM        M, Dc 31, 13
mtect Fnre#g Iwst             34.4      24.4    12.4
r- MX Boruwim                                             RM4c D1b, l. g              192.2
as rqp r - -21.5                   3D.4     32.6    M      mate D.
hanmwIix                    -7.7    -10.2   -10.7       Tta 0d±sta g & Mabused
Subtotal                    13.8      2D.2    21.9
Capiral                       26.1      26.0    30.6
Ig-teu  Capital (net)         59.7     -0.7       7.9    S        SEE= R   CR 1982/
Otberc     ne.1s              23.7      17.5    19.6
Inzease tI Rservs            -31.3     -0.3   -14.8    Public Debt, tl. g4.9
S%fGr        M sAsiate Deblt  *
Gkoss Reser,  (end year)     101.2      77.6    U18.4    Tot1  (.stAnig & Ud rs  d
Fl ai R P elat Matetals
T1ot clzf.
of %Wd&:  1troleu         76.1      68.7    67.2
Eqs f o.b.                   -         -        -
of iaEl:  tr m-                      -        -
nzrect A/C Bal. as Z DP                                  I }M  I)ING, Mbrdh 31, 1984
Offiliot 13$)
RAIES aF EMMME                                                                  in D   n1
nezmh -   -   1976-78 L979 1980 1981 1982 1983            Q±Stmftbg & Ilbe   44.4    7.9
US $ 1.0 - E     0.87  0.83 0.78 0.87 1.08 1.11          Uhishmed                6.1    0.0
1.00 - S $   1.15  I.20 1.28 1.15 .9228 .8991        outstanzli rga.
Endishus8l          50.5    7.9
I Fatmt
/ Ratoof J-t SeVioe D eCPOCt of gob and e ices.
.. avilabe
. t  p



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILANL
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS a/
(As of September 30, 1934)
No.         Year     Borrower        Purpose              Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Eight loans and two credits fully disbursed               35.5     8.3
1375-SW     1977    Kingdom of      Rural Development    4.0        -          1.1
Swaziland
1619-SW     1978     Kingdom of     Highways III          11.0      -          .2
Swaziland
1792-Sg     1980     Kingdom of     Education III          9.9      -         4.0
Swaziland
2009-1-SW   1984     Sw.Elect.Brd.  Power III              5.6      _         5.6
Total                                66.0     8.3       10.9
of which has been paid               11.1     0.6
Total now outstanding                54.9     7.7
Amount sold US$2.2 million
of which US$2.2 million has been
repaid                               0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA         54.9     7.7
f
of which is undisbursed              10.9     0.0        10.9
a/ Prior to exchan&e adjustment.



- 26 -
ANNE II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEM5   OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of September 30, 1984)
Investment                                                 CUSS million)
No.           Year       Type of Business         Loan       ty      Total
388-Se           1978       The Rcyal Swaziland
Sugar Corporation Ltd.    8.0     0.5       8.5
Total gross comtments   8.0       0.5       8.5
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repaymnts and
sales              2.0      -         2.0
Total now held by IFC    6.0      0.5       6.5
Total mAd sbursed        0.0       -        0.0



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SWAZILAND
CYCLONE REHRBILITAIION (ROADS) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
a) Time from project identification to
appraisal                                  6 months
b) Preparation by                             Government
UKODA - USAID & Bank
c) First Bank mission to consider
the project                                February 1984
d) Appraisal mission departure                July 28, 1984
e) Negotiations                               December 10-14, 1984
f) Planned date of effectiveness              April 1985
TI. Special Bank Implementation Action
NONE.
fIII.Special Conditions
A. The Government would ensure that the experts to assist CTA are
emoloyed and have taken up their posts by not later than July 1, 1985
(para. 51).
B. There is no condition of effectiveness.



- 28 -
AN   IV
SwAZAND
Proposed Cyclone Rehabilitation (Roads) Project
Five Year Road Rehabilitation Program (FY84/85 - FY88/89
Cost Estimates (E '000)
FY84/85 FY85/86 FY86/87 FY87/88 FY88/89 Total
T.A. to Roads Branch                220      200      200      200        -       820
Reconstruction of
of Mkhnodvo-Mahamba Road           -     1,500    3,500       -         -    5,000
Reconstruction of Big Bend Bridge    -       500    2,500    1,500      -      4,500
Reconstruction of Nsoko Bridge      300      150      -      1,000     1,000   2,450
Rehabilitation of Paved Roads       500      200      -      1,000       550   2,250
Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
and Minor Bridges
(a)  By force account          500    3,050    3,050       -              6,600*
(b) By contract                 -     4,200    4,500       -              8,700
Rehablitation of Rural
Foot Bridges                      200                                          200
Total                   1,720     9,800   13,750   3,700     1,550  30,520
*  Budgetted as recurrent expenditures out of funds allocated for road maintenance.



- 29 -
ANNEX V
SWAZILAND
Proposed Cyclone Rehabilitation (Roads) Project
Government's Proposed Financing Plan For
Five Year Road Rehabilitation Program (E'000)
Government Bank  ODA   AIDB  USAID  DANIDA Total
T.A. to Roads Branch                    -        -    -     -      820            820
Reconstruction of
of Mkhnodvo-Mahamba Road            1,000      -   -   4,000   -             5,000
Reconstruction of Big Bend Bridge       500      -  4,000   -      -           4,500
Reconstruction of Nsoko Bridge        2,310      -    -     -      -     140   2,450
Rehabilitation of Paved Roads         2,060     190   -     -      -           2,250
Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
and Hinor Bridges
(a) By force account             1,400   4,600  -      -      800         6,800
(b) By contract                  1,400   7,100   -     -                  8,500
Rehabilitation of Rural Foot Bridge     200    -      -     -       -            200
Total                       8,870  11,890*4,000 4,000  1,620   140  30,520
* Excluding TA to CTA for E 0.94 million



- 30 -
ANNEX VI
-XV
Documents in Project File
The main documents in the project file are:
1. First Report of the Cyclone Committee for the Reconstruction of
Communications, February 1984
2. Cyclone Domoina - Report on damage to the transport sector by
Mr. T.E. Farrand, February 1984
3. Final Report of the Feasibility Study for the Central Transport
Administration by GOPA Consultants, October 1984
4. Rural Reconstruction Project Paper, USAID, August 1984
5. Government of Swaziland -Register of Approved Building
Contractors-
6. Typical Bid Documents - Regravelling and Minor Improvements to the
Road from Mankayane to Sicunusa.
7. Government of Swaziland -Report by the Auditor General 1982-



IBRD 18533
SWAZILAND
PREVIOUS BNK PRQJECIS   CYCLONE REHABILITATION (ROADS) PROJECT
Cocaction to STainmia,
in Pdd Ur i9W                                T3ANSPFUTATION  NETWORK
Convsucton U>to Biunwas P,nd
........ S    A- Und-                  T Kaoonw.n            TO                                   0      20                       50
Cinmut in to AR - W                              /Wgonw                          0 oo                 20 30ERS
Grm.e Standad Undler First                                            KCILOMTES
Hi*w.3r Pyape ICrudat 20-SW                                                 M       ____LES______
)   CrA B. W      eWp                                            t           N
o3   CrA Difirt Worksha,                                                                     To -C=  tt    \,oa
A       0Oe  amruc Otmc Ocoots
A  t acd Maiotwna, Crasp
-          + - @Siu     s                                           C-v jL'--a sha    T/
MAain Roeeds- Greed                                                                                                     M
Distri-c ROmui
.4 Iiwn.teatna Awpiort 
Aerial Cablewav                   Cr"
- -Ro--a  ur Com-ucbon iGw -.el_                                        I-             
P;*"Xi: ;! Pin e *nW G.- Fort    /3 .,r  SRe                              __ >          ,
Momsm        ~F~bsReef
|-         SC ',-CI_OAr M f(
-   Intliatuonlw.ndanes 
To Joaomiesbarg                                                      J              liOMhlunmenr 
_ -,_ Xt 1~~~hl l  _  AeANEzln  
,.      ,-.- -a.       IN11 j                                                       _jIStk 
j\  !lain aot                viwn
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 AM t                                                 tek /    i---fse
,A6sw^ZlaD |  ;ogl J
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lb
,)        _0 *.-   0  200  00/
SEPTEMBER 1984



