Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3849 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/07/2008 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Mauritius 
Project ID: P112943 
Project Name: MU-Support for SME Dev. Project 
Task Team Leader: Asya Akhlaque 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 15, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: September 17, 2009 
Managing Unit: AFTFP 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Micro- and SME finance (50%);General industry and trade sector (50%) 
Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00
0.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support SME growth, competitiveness and 
employment creation by (i) improving access to quality BDS and markets; (ii) increasing access 
to finance; and (iii) promoting a conducive business environment through policy and institutional 
support.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
Based on the Bank’s analytical work in Mauritius, and lessons learnt from global best practices 
in SME development, the team has proposed an integrated and multi-pronged approach that will 
address key bottlenecks constraining SME development and competitiveness.  The proposed 
operation aims to support the GoM’s SME strategy through improved access to finance and 
markets, training and technology absorption for enhanced productivity and competitiveness for 
SMEs, and rationalization and strengthening of institutional arrangements in SME sector. SMEs 
across existing and new emerging sectors would be eligible for support under the proposed 
project,  with an emphasis on supporting commercially viable businesses.  
 
A
summary of the three components of the proposed project are as follows:  
 
Page  2
(i) Strengthening the enabling policy and institutional framework for SME Development: 
Potential areas of indicative support may include: (i) establishment of an Overarching 
Coordinating Mechanism for strategy, implementation, budgeting, Monitoring & Evaluation, and 
coordination of development partners’ interventions;(ii) strengthening Regulatory and Legal 
systems;  and (iii) optimization and consolidation of existing public SME institutions and 
programs.  
 
(ii) Strengthening Business Development Services (BDS) via Matching Grants scheme: To 
assist SMEs in developing and strengthening technological links to support design, product 
development, marketing, skills upgrading etc., the proposed component will establish a matching 
grant scheme (MGS) aimed at both specifically assisting SMEs and overcoming information 
constraints that inhibit the functioning of the market. The starting point for designing a 
successful MGS is a detailed analysis of the existing market conditions.  The specific focus and 
design of the MGS shall be undertaken at pre-appraisal stage.  
 
(iii) Access to Finance: This component would support a Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG) as a 
potential instrument for addressing access to finance constraint for SMEs.  PCG is a risk-sharing 
program proposed to commercial banks established and operating in Mauritius. SMEs are 
perceived to be higher-risk borrowers and usually lack cash collateral needed to obtain bank 
loans.  The PCG instrument would provide banks with the credit protection needed to mitigate 
the perceived high risk of SME lending. The PCG is aimed at encouraging these banks to lend to 
SMEs by partially back-stopping potential losses resulting from non-payments of their respective 
SME loan portfolios.  The 50-50 pari-passu risk sharing ensures that participating banks conduct 
proper borrower credit appraisal and apply strict loan underwriting criteria in establishing the 
loan portfolio.  Participating Banks would be selected based on their financial strength and 
demonstrated intention to expand into the SME sector. The Bank team had the opportunity to 
discuss this proposal with a range of commercial banks operating in Mauritius - all of whom 
indicated potential interest in participating in the PRG scheme.  
 
The team has been following up with IFC colleagues to explore the potential for 
leveraging joint IBRD and IFC resources and capacities. IFC has shown keen interest in a 
collaboration and joined the September mission to Mauritius. Based on the market assessment, 
the incentive features of the operational design, pricing, implementing structure and selection of 
the participating Banks for the PCG was identified by the IFC team during the mission. IFC will 
take the lead in administering the PCG and shall also be undertaking a comprehensive analysis of 
the market needs and exploring a broader range of financial products.  
 
The only project component subject to safeguards compliance is Component (iii) of the PCN, 
"Access to Finance", which covers a Partial Credit Guarantee.  As such, IFC safeguard 
compliance will be adhered to for this component and the ESMS  
 
(Environmental and Social Management Systems)approach of the IFC will be adopted.  This 
approach is consistent with the Bank's Environmental and Social Management Framework, and 
is moreover specifically tailored for private sector business acitivities.  The IFC will use a set of 
standard social and environmental covenants in the legal agreement to ask clients, among others, 
to diligently implement the ESMS and report annually to IFC on their environmental and social 
performance.   
Page  3
D.  Project location (if known) 
This is a national programme that will focus on Small and Medium enterprises (SMEs) 
throughout the country.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The Government of Mauritius has comprehensive Environmental 
Regulations:<http://www.gov.mu/portal/sites/legaldb/legis.htmand enforcement>.Enforcement 
levels are usually of a high standard, though SMEs are subject to a less rigorous clearance 
process. Since the investment component of the project will be operated through commercial and 
development banks in Mauritius (final list still to be identified),  questionnaires designed by the 
IFC will be forwarded to all potential candidates for inclusion.  These questionnaires (standard 
IFC templates)will assess the social, environmental, and labour regulations and practices of 
participating banks. These questionnaires form part of the IFC's ESMS approach and enable IFC 
to finalise their requirements.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Noreen Beg (AFTEN) 
Mr Zhengfang Shi (CESI2) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The project will utilise the Environmental and Social Management Systems approach 
followed by the IFC for Financial Intermediary projects.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
F
-
Financial Intermediary Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  02/11/2009 
 
Page  4
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
The borrower will prepare an ESMS, and complete the IFC provided questionnaires. 
Consultation will take place in January in Mauritius, and the ESMS will be disclosed in 
February in the country and at the Info Shop.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Asya Akhlaque 
09/30/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
09/30/2008 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
10/06/2008 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
