Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/11/2009 
Report No.:  AC4621
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Mauritius 
Project ID:  P112943 
Project Name:  MU-Manufacturing and Servs Dev and Compet 
Task Team Leader:  Asya Akhlaque 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 15, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: November 24, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTFE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Micro- and SME finance (50%);General industry and trade sector (50%) 
Theme:  Small and medium enterprise support (100%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall objective of the proposed project is to support enterprise growth, 
competitiveness and employment creation in manufacturing and services sectors. This 
will be achieved by: (i) improving access to quality Business Development Services 
(BDS); (ii) strengthening institutional and policy support; and (iii) increasing access to 
finance to credit constrained businesses.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will be structured around the following three integrated pillars:  
 
Component One: Improving access to quality Business Development Services (BDS);  
 
Component Two: Strengthening Institutional and Policy support; and  
 
Component Three: Increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses.  
 
Component One: Improving access to quality Business Development Services (BDS) 
(tentative project funds allocated - US$ 12million)  
Page  2
This component supports enterprise productivity and competitiveness, specifically in 
areas of skills and training, technology upgrading, standards and marketing constraints 
facing SMEs.  
 
This component shall establish a Mauritius Business Growth Scheme [MBGS], with the 
aim to strengthen the capacity and international competitiveness of private businesses. 
The Scheme will deliver two complementary products to individual firms:  
 
(a) Cost-sharing grants, to buy specialized outside expertise;  
 
(b) Mentoring, helping each firm to plan and execute a growth plan, stage by stage. 
typically based on quarterly firm visits. These two products will be available to any 
privately-controlled commercial entity, operating legally within Mauritius, and can be 
used to support any commercial activity contributing to the economy of Mauritius, and 
operating for profit, including commercial agriculture and commercial fishing.  
 
Criteria: For an individual firm to receive Scheme assistance, the key requirement is that 
the applicant firm must have written down a simple business growth plan, showing that 
management understands the firm's current situation, and plans a significant set of 
measures, that are likely to lead to strong sales growth. Once this growth plan is set 
down, then, in principle, any usage made of outside advisory services, that can 
reasonably be expected to contribute to the planned growth, can be supported by a grant.  
As for the mentoring, the aim is to assist the firm to carry out all the measures in its plan, 
using its own resources where appropriate, and using grant-assisted outside resources 
where this makes more sense.  
 
Every firm applying to the Unit would be paid an initial diagnostic visit on a strictly 
"first-come, first-served" basis.  After that, however, the Scheme Manager would be able 
to allocate Unit resources as he/she sees fit, based on the agreed criteria, in order to 
achieve the primary objective, namely to maximize the rate of growth within assisted 
firms.  The manager would commit to quarterly and annual activity plans, establishing 
detailed verifiable indicators of activity.  These would be monitored closely, first by the 
Project Manager; then by the Steering Committee; and also by regular Bank supervision 
missions.  In the early months of the Scheme, there would be intensive promotion of the 
Scheme, reaching all the different business communities, and different segments of the 
private sector.  The intention is to use the various representative organizations of the 
private sector to facilitate this promotion.  
 
Applications from firms for grant support would be reviewed initially by the Scheme 
Manager.  He/she would then forward these vetted applications to a small Grant 
Approvals Committee, internal to the PCU and MBGS Unit, and which would be headed 
by the Project Manager.  It would include the MBGS Manager, and would also bring in 
the expertise of other PCU specialist staff, such as the Procurement Officer and/or the 
Financial Management Officer. Funding: The total MBGS funding to be made available, 
over the project period, would be $12.0m, including  the cost of operating the MBGS 
Unit.  
 
Implementation & Management of MBGS: World Bank experience with such schemes 
highlights the importance of operational independence. It is vital that the Unit managing 
the Scheme is visibly and operationally independent from the machinery of government.  
The Unit would therefore be set up as an independent project entity. It would be staffed 
Page  3
by a Scheme Manager, internationally recruited with direct previous grant scheme 
experience, plus two Advisors, locally recruited with consulting or business mentoring 
experience. The manager of the Unit would be answerable to the Program Steering 
Committee.  
 
The Scheme would be directed by an MBGS Manual, to be agreed between the World 
Bank and the Government.  Systems would be developed to ensure compliance with the 
terms of this manual, but with the minimum possible paperwork and complexity.  
 
Component Two: Strengthening Policy and Institutional Framework  
 
(tentative project funds allocated - US$ 4.5 million)  
 
In support of the Government's efforts to streamline SME related public sector 
institutions and policies to strengthen quality and sustainability of services, this 
component focuses on:  (a) rationalization and consolidation of existing public sector 
SME institutions and programs; and (b) establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation 
(M&E) unit to evaluate SME programs to strengthen performance and accountability.  
 
The first sub-component shall specifically support restructuring and conversion of the 
Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) into a Development Agency, along with the 
consolidation of the Small Enterprises & Handicraft Development Authority (SEHDA), 
and the National Women Entrepreneur Council (NWEC). Key activities to be supported 
under this component may be as follow: (a) to identify and rationalize key services; (b) to 
minimize duplication and overlap of functions; (c) to prepare training plans and conduct 
training programs; (d) to acquire the appropriate software and/or equipment; (e) to 
develop a suitable Human Resource plan.  
 
As part of the potential restructuring and rationalization efforts, the second sub-
component would support the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit. 
This new M&E system will help the government of Mauritius to better design future 
SMEs support programs by providing a meaningful evaluation of the impact of earlier 
programs. A good M&E system requires the creation of a dedicated and independent unit 
in charge of: (a) recruiting and training its staff to conduct, manage, and supervise M&E 
activities, (b) selecting the support schemes to be evaluated; (c) identifying specific 
aspects to be evaluated; (d) creating data systems and procedures; and (e) disseminating 
the findings to the appropriate stakeholders. This sub-component will fund an assessment 
of existing M&E functions and their strengths and weaknesses. The project will then 
support the setting up of the unit, the creation of a database of schemes for SMEs, the 
conduct of evaluations, and dissemination of findings.  
 
The Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC) has been identified as 
the line agency for implementing this component.  
 
Component Three: Increasing access to finance to credit constrained SMEs  
 
(tentative project funds allocated - US$ 1.5 million)  
 
Informed by technical work and discussions, this component shall address the two major 
impediments for SMEs' access to finance:(i) lack of capacity to present bankable 
proposals; and (ii) under-capitalization where local SMEs lack equity capital and depend 
Page  4
on borrowed capital, which constrain the further borrowing capacity and growth of these 
firms.  Given that the binding constraints for access to finance for SMEs stem primarily 
from the demand side of financial markets, and would be best served by focusing on 
technical assistance to SMEs to present bankable proposals to lending banks. This would 
be addressed as part of the BDS component described in component 1.  
 
This component shall provide technical assistance in the following areas: (i) to 
investigate the feasibility of setting up a multi-donor equity fund; (ii) to help inform the 
design of innovative financial products, the goals for which were set out in the the May 
(2009) Budget announcements by the GoM; and (iii) to strengthen the implementation 
and capacity constraints issues related to the on-going MTSP workouts.  
 
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment (MOFEE) has been designated 
as the responsible line ministry for this component.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Countrywide - Mauritius   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Noreen Beg (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Since there are no investment components in the project, and since the overall objective 
of the project is to support the manufacturing and services sectors in general (see above)  
i.e., there is no focus on any specific industry or industry segment) the project as such 
shall not have adverse environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally 
important areas. It is rated as a C category.   
 
Page  5
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As evidenced in the Country System Safeguard Diagnostic Review undertaken by the 
Bank and currently nearing completion , the Ministry of Environment has a strong 
commitment to environmental protection.  It is well on the way to bringing the EIA 
process in line with international standards, as witnessed through the issuance of the 
#Proponent#s Guide to Environmental Impact Assessment# (EIA Guidelines) and 
sectoral guidelines in areas such as #Integrated Resort Schemes# (and recent EIRs 
produced under the guidelines). The Environmental Protection Act (2002) EPA spells out 
the following as requirements for all undertakings:  
 
-
An undertaking specified in Part A of the First Schedule requires preparation and 
approval of a Preliminary Environmental Report (PER). This PER applies to less 
polluting projects and does not require an outline. There are general guidelines for 
preparing PER projects on the MoE website. (Most of the projects under the MBGS will 
fall in this category.)  
 
-An undertaking specified in Part B of the First Schedule requires an EIA license.  To 
apply for a license, a proponent must submit to the Director an EIA report.  A proponent, 
unless applying through the Board of Investment, must provide the Director with an 
outline of his/her proposed undertaking, including its location, nature and scope, at least 3 
months before submitting his application for an EIA license.  Failure to do so may result 
in a rejection of an application for a license.  
 
The EIA Guidelines go even further than the Environmental Protection Act, calling for 
:attention to cumulative environmental impacts; consideration of  
#strategic/local/regional/national impacts#;  
 
#socio-economic# and #socio-cultural# impacts; and  
 
the need to comply with zoning requirements.  
 
The EIA Guideline requires that EIA Reports include a section for #Monitoring and 
Maintenance# including #future maintenance requirements;# and provides for 
consideration of #do nothing option,# e.g. impact on future land use.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable.   
 
Page  6
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
N/A 
Page  7
cost? 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Asya Akhlaque 
09/11/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Noreen Beg 
09/11/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
09/11/2009 
Comments:   
