Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4949 
Project Name 
MU-Manufacturing and Servs Dev and Compet 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (50%);General industry and trade sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P112943 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS 
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS 
Mauritius 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC) 
New Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
Tel: (230) 111-1111 
 
 rhosany@mail.gov.mu 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
New Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
Tel: 230-111-1111 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 22, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 15, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1. Project Objectives 
 
The overall objective of the proposed project is to support enterprise growth, competitiveness and 
employment
 
creation in manufacturing and services sectors.  This will be achieved by: (i) improving 
access to quality Business Development Services (BDS); (ii) strengthening institutional and policy 
support; and (iii) increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses.
 
2. Project Description 
 
The Project will be structured around the following three integrated pillars:  
 
Page  2
Component One:
 
Improving access to quality Business Development Services (BDS); 
Component Two:
 
Strengthening Institutional and Policy Support; and 
Component Three
:
Increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses. 
 
Component One
:
Improving
 
access to quality Business Development Services (BDS) 
 (
tentative project funds allocated - US$ 12million)
 
This component supports enterprise productivity and competitiveness, specifically in areas of skills and 
training, technology upgrading, standards and marketing constraints facing SMEs. Public provided BDS 
are often not well-aligned with the needs of the SMEs. Facilitating the provision of services by private 
providers and stimulating the demand for them by small enterprise clients raises service coverage, quality 
and sustainability.  
 
This component shall involve establishing a Mauritius Business Growth Scheme [MBGS], with the aim to 
strengthen the capacity and international competitiveness of private businesses. The Scheme will deliver 
two “products” to individual firms, intended to complement each other: 
·
Cost-sharing grants, to buy specialized outside expertise; 
·
Hand-holding, or “mentoring,” helping each firm to plan and execute a growth plan, stage by 
stage – typically based on quarterly firm visits. 
These two “products” will be available to any privately-controlled commercial entity, operating legally 
within Mauritius.   These two products can be used to support any commercial activity contributing to the 
economy of Mauritius, and operating for profit, including commercial agriculture and commercial fishing. 
 
Client firms will be encouraged to seek the most suitable specialized expertise for their specific 
requirements, wherever they wish, either inside Mauritius or beyond.  Domestic service suppliers will 
benefit considerably, as suppliers to grant-supported firms.  But it is also almost inevitable that many of 
the specialized services, so crucial to building competitiveness, will come from outside.  It is important to 
note, however, that domestic BDS suppliers, if they are commercial entities, will be eligible, just like any 
other firm, for support from the Scheme, in order to build their businesses. 
 
Criteria:
 For an individual firm to receive Scheme assistance, the key requirement
 
is that the applicant 
firm must have written down a simple business growth plan, showing that management understands the 
firm’s current situation, and plans a significant set of measures, that are likely to lead to strong sales 
growth. Once this growth plan is set down, then, in principle, any usage made of outside advisory 
services, that can reasonably be expected to contribute to the planned growth, can be supported by a grant.  
As for the mentoring, the aim is to assist the firm to carry out all the measures in its plan, using its own 
resources where appropriate, and using grant-assisted outside resources where this makes more sense.   
 
Every firm applying to the Unit would be paid an initial diagnostic visit on a strictly “first-come, first-
serve” basis.  After that, however, the Scheme Manager would allocate Unit resources as he or she sees fit 
based on the agreed criteria, in order to achieve the primary objective, namely to maximize the rate of 
growth within assisted firms.  The manager would commit to quarterly and annual activity plans, 
establishing detailed verifiable indicators of activity.  These would be monitored closely, first by the 
Project Manager; then by the Steering Committee; and also by regular Bank supervision missions.  In the 
early months of the Scheme, there would be intensive promotion of the Scheme, reaching all the different 
business communities, and different segments of the private sector.  The intention is to use the various 
representative organizations of the private sector to facilitate this promotion. 
Page  3
Applications from firms for grant support would be reviewed initially by the Scheme Manager.  He/she 
would then forward these vetted applications to a small Grant Approvals Committee, internal to the PCU 
and MBGS Unit, and which would be headed by the Project Manager.  It would include the MBGS 
Manager, and would also bring in the expertise of other PCU specialist staff, such as the Procurement 
Officer and/or the Financial Management Officer. 
 
No firm, or group of firms under common control, could receive a cumulative total of grants from the 
Scheme in excess of $100,000 equivalent. Applications from groups of firms wishing to carry out grant-
assisted activities jointly would be eligible.  The grants within the Scheme are intended to incentivize 
firms to spend money in ways they would not otherwise have done.   
 
Funding:
 The total MBGS funding to be made available, over the project period, would be $12.0m, 
including the cost of operating the MBGS Unit.   
 
The M&E indicator that will be used the measure whether the scheme has achieved its objective is as 
follows.  The key performance indicator to help judge the success of the MBGS would be the “total 
incremental sales revenue” of the beneficiary firms following MBGS assistance. 
 
Implementation & Management of MBGS: 
World Bank experience with such schemes highlights the 
importance of operational independence.  It is vital that the Unit managing the Scheme is visibly and 
operationally independent from the machinery of government.  The Unit would therefore be set up as an 
independent project entity.  The manager of the Unit would be answerable to the Program Steering 
Committee. This feature must be balanced with the understandable wish of the Government of Mauritius 
to build capacity in the civil service, and also, where possible, to utilize the available manpower within 
the civil service.   
 
The Scheme would be directed by an MBGS Manual, to be agreed between the World Bank and the 
Government.  Systems would be developed to ensure compliance with the terms of this manual, but with 
the minimum possible paperwork and complexity.    
 
Component Two: 
Strengthening Policy and Institutional Support
 
(tentative project funds allocated - US$ 4.5 million)
 
In support of Government’s efforts to streamline SME related public sector institutions and 
policies to strengthen quality and sustainability of services, this component focuses on:  (a) 
rationalization and consolidation of existing public sector SME institutions and programs; and 
(b) establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) unit to evaluate SME programs to 
strengthen performance and accountability. 
 
The first sub-component shall specifically support restructuring and conversion of the 
Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) into a Development Agency, along with the 
consolidation of the Small Enterprises & Handicraft Development Authority (SEHDA), and the 
National Women Entrepreneur Council (NWEC). Key activities to be supported under this 
component may be as follow
:
(a) to identify and rationalize key services; (b) to minimize duplication 
and overlap of functions; (c) to prepare training plans and conduct training programs; (d) to acquire the 
appropriate software and/or equipment; (e) to develop a suitable Human Resource plan. 
 
Page  4
As part of the potential restructuring and rationalization efforts, the 
second sub-component
 would 
support the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit. One possible location for this unit 
could be the restructured development agency to be supported in the first sub-component.  This new 
M&E system will help Mauritius to better design future SMEs support programs by providing a 
meaningful evaluation of the impact of earlier programs. A good M&E system requires the creation of a 
dedicated and independent unit in charge of: (a) recruiting and training its staff to conduct, manage, and 
supervise M&E activities, (b) selecting the support schemes to be evaluated; (c) identifying specific 
aspects to be evaluated; (d) creating data systems and procedures; and (e) disseminating the findings to 
the appropriate stakeholders. This sub-component will fund an assessment of existing M&E functions and 
their strengths and weaknesses. The project will then support the setting up of the unit, the creation of a 
database of schemes for SMEs, the conduct of evaluations, and dissemination of findings. For this effort 
to be valuable and effective it is important that the M&E unit be independent from any particular agency 
in charge of service provision. Finally it is equally important the findings of the evaluation be publicly 
available in order to mobilize civil society as user of the government services. 
 
The Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC) has been identified as the line agency 
for implementing this component. The total indicative allocation for this component is US$3.5 million; 
and US$0.9 million has been allocated towards the support of the PCU. 
 
Component Three:
 
Increasing access to finance to credit constrained SMEs 
(tentative project funds allocated - US$ 1.5 million)
 
Informed by technical work and discussions, this component shall address the two major impediments for 
SMEs’ access to finance:(i) lack of capacity to present bankable proposals; and (ii) under-capitalization 
where local SMEs lack equity capital and depend on borrowed capital, which constrain the further 
borrowing capacity and growth of these firms.  Given that the binding constraints for access to finance for 
SMEs stem primarily from the demand side of financial markets, and would be best served by focusing 
on technical assistance to SMEs to present bankable proposals to lending banks. This would be addressed 
as part of the BDS component described in component 1. 
 
This component shall provide technical assistance in the following potential areas: (i) to investigate the 
feasibility of setting up a multi-donor equity fund; (ii) to help inform the design of innovative financial 
products, the goals for which were set out in the May (2009) Budget announcements by the GoM; and 
(iii) to strengthen the implementation and capacity constraints issues related to the ongoing MTSP 
workouts.  
 
MOFEE has been designated as the responsible line ministry for this component.  
 
3. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
4. Implementation 
 
The GoM will borrow US$ 20 million from IBRD for the project’s implementation.  The project’s 
duration is expected to be for 5 years. The overall project institutional arrangements include a Program 
Page  5
Coordination Unit (PCU), Program Steering Committee (PSC) and the two line ministries, henceforth 
referred as the implementing agencies (IAs).  
 
Program Coordination Unit (PCU)
:
To support overall project coordination, management and facilitation 
among the two implementing agencies (IAs), a PCU would be established under the 
Ministry of 
Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC)
.
The PCU would carry out the project management 
functions in accordance with project objectives and agreed GoM and Bank guidelines, facilitate 
coordination among implementing agencies, undertake day-to-day facilitation including provide the 
needed financial management and procurement support, facilitate necessary actions based on the 
implementation pr
ogress, and prepare the quarterly progress reports for PSC monitoring and Bank’s 
supervision.  
 
A
monitoring and evaluation system would be established for each of the three project specific 
components to provide ongoing feedback on results and lessons and allow for adjustments. Monitoring 
and Evaluation (M&E) system and indicators – including at the output, outcome, and Project 
Development Objective (PDO) levels - shall be developed as project and component design details are 
finalized. These indicators would be further elaborated and validated during appraisal. Indicators would 
include measurements for results at the enterprise level such as increased sales, and employment; results 
at the intermediary level such as number of providers for business services to SMEs; and at the national 
level related to agreed institutional policy reform goals.  Furthermore, capacity building indicators would 
be developed to measure and track the impact of institutional development activities. 
 
Staffing:
 The PCU would comprise of full-time dedicated staff including a Program Manager, a Technical 
Manager, a Procurement specialist, a Financial management specialist, and a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) specialist. While the Program Manager would be drawn from MoBEC, the Technical Manager 
would be hired on contract. The GoM recognizes that there is an urgent need to build capacity within the 
MoBEC to ensure that it can effectively house the PCU and implement the associated functions.  
 
Empowered Program Steering Committee (PSC):
 The project shall be overseen by an empowered Project 
Steering Committee (PSC). The functions of the PSC would include: (i) strategic guidance to the program 
coordination unit (
PCU
)
to meet the overall project objectives; (ii) capturing synergies and minimizing 
overlap in the programs being supported by MoBEC and MoSIR, given that the mandate of both 
ministries include the development of industry and SMEs – the focus of this project; (iii) reviewing 
quarterly progress reports including M&E indicators; and (iv) coordinate strategic project level matters 
with the World Bank, and other development partners.  The PSC would meet once every quarter, at a 
minimum. and review the Project’s progress against the agreed performance indicators and would address 
any issues that could adversely impact’s the project implementation or attainment of its objectives.     
 
Line ministries as implementing agencies (IAs):
 The implementation of each component shall be 
undertaken at the line ministry level. This would involve defining the activities to be supported in 
agreement with the PSC, coordinating the implementation aspects of the different technical assistance, 
and monitoring progress. Based on the agreed activities and institutional mechanisms, requisite resources 
would be allocated.  
 
Business development services (BDS) component 
would be coordinated by MoBEC, with the matching 
grants scheme being administered by an independent agency. 
Component two (policy and institutional 
Page  6
support)
 would be coordinated by the MoBEC. 
The activities under component three
 i.e. access to 
finance)
 would be coordinated by MOFEE albeit solutions shall be sought through private sector 
partners though competitive process.
 
5.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
This project ha
s
been designed drawing upon the World Bank Group’s experience in Sub-Saharan Africa 
and other regions and has benefited from the inputs of various World Bank Group specialized teams, and 
from the utilization of a strong in-country dialogue with stakeholders.  Specifically the Project draws 
upon the large amount of analytical work carried out by the World Bank Group and the Government of 
Mauritius in recent years, including the 2006 Aid for Trade Report, the 2006 Investment Climate 
Assessment, along with findings of the 2009 Enterprise Survey, the annual Doing Business surveys, 
FSAP, CEM, the 2006 Governance and Anticorruption Report (GAC), and literature referencing best 
practices for SME development programs around the world (2002). Lessons have also been learned from 
the experiences of projects supported by other development partners in the sector and from the 
experiences of Mauritius Chambers of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), the Joint Economic Council 
(JEC) and the Board of Investment in promoting a competitive business environment in Mauritius.  
 
6.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Asya Akhlaque 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8780 
Fax: (202) 614-8780 
Email: aakhlaque@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
wb211506 
C:\Users\wb211506\Documents\Mauritious\Project Information Document, 4 Sept09.doc 
9/8/2009 5:21:00 PM
 
