Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  51535 
Project Name 
MU-Manufacturing and Servs Dev and Compet 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (50%); General industry and trade sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P112943 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS 
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS 
Mauritius 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC) 
New Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
Tel: (230) 111-1111 
 
 rhosany@mail.gov.mu 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
New Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
Tel: 230-111-1111 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 26, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 8, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
December 10, 2009 
1. Project Objectives 
 
The overall objective of the proposed project is to support enterprise growth, competitiveness and 
employment
 
creation in manufacturing and services sectors.  This will be achieved by: (i) improving 
access to quality Business Development Services (BDS); (ii) strengthening institutional and policy 
support; and (iii) increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses.
 
2. Project Description 
 
The Project will be structured around the following integrated pillars:  
 
Component One:
 
Improving access to quality Business Development Services (BDS); 
Page  2
Component Two:
 
Strengthening Institutional and Policy Support for existing public-sector 
SME related institutions; and 
Component Three
:
Increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses. 
 
Component Four:
 
Project Coordination and Management 
 
Component One:
 
Improving access to quality Business Development Services (BDS)  
(Project funds allocated - US$ 12million)  
 
This component supports enterprise productivity and competitiveness, specifically in areas of 
skills and training, technology upgrading, standards and marketing constraints facing SMEs. 
Public provided BDS are often not well-aligned with the needs of the SMEs. Facilitating the 
provision of services by private providers and stimulating the demand for them by small 
enterprise clients raises service coverage, quality and sustainability.  
This component shall involve establishing a Mauritius Business Growth Scheme [MBGS], with 
the aim to strengthen the capacity and international competitiveness of private businesses. The 
Scheme will deliver two "products" to individual firms, intended to complement each other:  
·
Cost-sharing grants, to buy specialized outside expertise;  
·
Hand-holding, or "mentoring", helping each firm to plan and execute a growth plan, stage 
by stage - typically based on quarterly firm visits.  
‘
These two "products" will be available to any privately-controlled commercial entity, operating 
legally within Mauritius.   These two products can be used to support any commercial activity 
contributing to the economy of Mauritius, and operating for profit, including commercial 
agriculture and commercial fishing. Financial services and trading oriented to the domestic 
market are the only activities expressly excluded.   
 
It is expected that a new official definition for SMEs will be gazetted soon. This is likely to 
define "small" as having sales below MUR10m and "medium" as having sales from MUR10-
50m.   It is likely that most of the firms that access the MBGS will be "SMEs", under these new 
definitions.  Only a very small proportion of the total population of firms has sales above 
MUR50m. However, it is important to note that MBGS support will be open to all private firms, 
in all size categories, since the overall objective is to facilitate private-sector growth.  
 
The Scheme would be directed by an MBGS Manual, to be agreed between the World Bank and 
the Government.  Systems would be developed to ensure compliance with the terms of this 
manual, but with the minimum possible paperwork and complexity.  
 
Funding: The total MBGS funding to be made available, over the project period, would be 
$12.0m, including the cost of operating the MBGS Unit.  
 
Implementation & Management of MBGS: World Bank experience with such schemes 
highlights the importance of operational independence. It is vital that the Unit managing the 
Scheme is visibly and operationally independent from the machinery of government.  The Unit 
would therefore be set up as an independent project entity but accountable to a joint private-
public Project Steering Committee (called MTSP Committee), with the MBGS Manager 
Page  3
reporting to the Committee. The PCU at MoBEC shall be responsible for administrative 
functions related to fiduciary aspects.  
 
Component Two:
 
Strengthening Policy and Institutional Support  
(Project funds allocated - US$ 3.9 million)  
 
In support of Government's efforts to streamline SME related public sector institutions and 
policies to strengthen quality and sustainability of services, this component focuses on:  (a) 
rationalization and consolidation of existing public sector SME institutions and programs; and 
(b) establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) unit to evaluate SME programs to 
strengthen performance and accountability.  
 
With respect to the first sub-
component, which supports Government’s initiative to restructure 
and convert the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) into a Development Agency (DA),  and 
the consolidation of the SEHDA, and the NWEC, following are the agreed key activities of 
support: (a) to identify and rationalize key services based on a thorough analysis of market gaps 
and needs; (b) to minimize duplication and overlap of functions; (c) to assist in drafting requisite 
legislation and regulations for the new agency; (d) to provide technical assistance in establishing 
appropriate corporate governance arrangements, risk management systems, and internal controls; 
(e) to prepare a human resources plan and develop and conduct staff training programs; (f) to 
acquire the appropriate software and/or equipment; (g) to develop new products aimed at 
improving the creditworthiness of SMEs and catalyzing private financing, including partial risk 
guarantees; (h) to assist DBM in winding down or disposing of discontinued lines of business; (i) 
to develop and implement a communications strategy to explain the transition and rationale for 
the conversion to stakeholders, staff, and the general public; and (j) to establish a budget and 
financial plan for the new agency.  
 
The second sub-component would support the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) unit.  A lack of systematic monitoring and evaluation has been a notable weakness of 
past government programs to support SMEs. This new M&E system will help Mauritius to better 
design future SMEs support programs by providing a meaningful evaluation of the impact of 
earlier programs. A good M&E system requires the creation of a dedicated and independent unit 
in charge of: (a) recruiting and training its staff to conduct, manage, and supervise M&E 
activities; (b) selecting the support schemes to be evaluated; (c) identifying specific aspects to be 
evaluated; (d) creating data systems and procedures; and (e) disseminating the findings to the 
appropriate stakeholders. This sub-component will fund an assessment of existing M&E 
functions and their strengths and weaknesses. The sub-component will support the setting up of 
the unit, the creation of a database of schemes for SMEs, undertaking the evaluations, and 
dissemination of findings. While the M&E unit would be housed in the new agency, it would be 
autonomous and involve private sector associations, including MCCI and SME Federation - as 
oversight bodies and key stakeholders.  For this effort to be valuable and effective it is important 
that the M&E unit be independent from any particular agency in charge of service provision. All 
surveys should be out-sourced to ensure independence. Finally, it is equally important that the 
findings of the evaluation be publicly available in order to mobilize civil society as user of the 
government services.  
 
Page  4
Component Three:
 
Increasing access to finance to credit constrained SMEs  
(Project funds allocated - US$ 1.5 million)  
Informed by technical work and discussions, this component shall address the two major 
impediments for SMEs# access to finance: (i) lack of capacity to develop and present bankable 
proposals; (ii) a lack of collateral required by banks in support of lending, and (iii) a temporary 
constraint linked to the global crisis, which has resulted in a tightening of credit to riskier 
segments of the market. It will also finance further analysis of market failures, the reasons for 
these gaps, and propose solutions to address them.  As the binding constraints for access to 
finance for SMEs appear to stem primarily from the demand side of financial markets, they 
would be best addressed by focusing on technical assistance to SMEs to develop and present 
bankable proposals to lending banks. This technical assistance will be provided under the BDS 
component.  
 
This component will provide technical assistance in the following areas: (i) to assist in the design 
of partial risk guarantees and other financial products aimed at catalyzing market finance;  (ii) to 
provide technical assistance and strengthen implementation of the new MTSP/SME program; 
(iii) to undertake a thorough analysis of supply and demand for finance among MSMEs to 
identify possible market failures, and reasons for the gaps; and (iv) to propose appropriate 
solutions for market segments where private lenders may not be willing to assume credit risk 
(e.g. microenterprises and start-ups).  
 
Component Four:
 
Project Coordination and Management 
(Project funds allocated - US$ 0.6 million)  
 
Project Coordination and Management: To support overall project coordination, management 
and facilitation among MBGS Unit MoFEE and MoBEC, a PCU has been established under the 
Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC).  The PCU would carry out the 
project management functions in accordance with project objectives and agreed GoM and World 
Bank guidelines, facilitate coordination among implementing agencies, undertake day-to-day 
facilitation including provision of the needed financial management and procurement support, 
facilitate necessary actions based on the implementation progress, and prepare the quarterly 
progress reports for PSC monitoring and Bank’s supervision. The project shall provide part of 
the operating costs to support operations of the PCU. 
 
3. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
4. Implementation 
 
The GoM will borrow US$ 20 million from IBRD for the project’s implementation.  The project’s 
duration is expected to be for 6 years. The key project institutional arrangements include a Program 
Coordination Unit (PCU), Program Steering Committee (PSC) and the two line ministries, henceforth 
referred as the implementing agencies (IAs).  
 
Page  5
Program Coordination Unit (PCU)
:
To support overall project coordination, management and facilitation 
among the two implementing agencies (IAs), a PCU would be established under the Ministry of Business 
Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC).  The PCU would carry out the project management functions in 
accordance with project objectives and agreed GoM and Bank guidelines, facilitate coordination among 
implementing agencies, undertake day-to-day facilitation including provide the needed financial 
management and procurement support, facilitate necessary actions based on the implementation progress, 
and prepare the quarterly progress reports for PSC monitoring and Bank’s supervision.  
 
A
monitoring and evaluation system would be established for each of the three project specific 
components to provide ongoing feedback on results and lessons and allow for adjustments. Monitoring 
and Evaluation (M&E) system and indicators – including at the output, outcome, and Project 
Development Objective (PDO) levels - have been developed during appraisal. Indicators include 
measurements for results at the enterprise level such as increased sales, results at the intermediary level 
such as number of providers for business services to firms; and at the national level related to agreed 
institutional policy reform goals.  Furthermore, capacity building indicators would be developed to 
measure and track the impact of institutional development activities.  
 
Staffing:
 The PCU would comprise of full-time dedicated staff including a Program Manager, a Technical 
Manager, a Procurement specialist, a Financial Management Specialist, and a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) specialist. The Program Manager, the Financial Management, Procurement and M&E Officers 
have already been identified. 
 
MTSP Committee to function as the Program Steering Committee (PSC):
 The Government is keen to use 
existing committees to support this project rather than create new ones, given the already constrained 
capacity. In the above spirit, it has been agreed that the existing Mechanism for Transitional Support to 
Private Sector (MTSP) would act as the PSC for the project, subject to some amendments in membership. 
The 
functions 
of
the MTSP would include: (i) strategic guidance to the program coordination unit (
PCU
)
to meet the overall project objectives; (ii) coordination among the different stakeholders and to help 
capture synergies and minimize overlap in the programs being supported by the MoBEC and MoISR, 
given that the mandate of both ministries includes the development of private sector  – the focus of this 
project; (iii) review of quarterly progress reports including M&E indicators; and (iv) coordination of  
project level matters with the World Bank and other development partners.  The PSC would meet once 
every quarter, at a minimum.  
 
For the
 BDS component,
 the MBGS matching grants scheme shall be administered by an independent 
MBGS unit. The PCU at MoBEC shall be responsible for administrative functions related to fiduciary 
aspects. The SSME Committee
 
and the SMSS Committees
 
shall jointly provide guidance on day-to-day 
working level guidance, where needed. For the
 Policy and Institutional Support Component
,
the 
designated Implementation Agency shall be the MoBEC. It was agreed that SSME Committee, along with 
the MTSP Committee (the latter broadened to include representation from DBM), shall oversee and 
inform the design of this component. For
 
the 
access to finance component, 
the designated Implementation 
agency shall MoFEE. It was agreed that the MTSP Committee, broadened to include representation from 
DBM, shall oversee and inform the design of this component.   
 
5. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
This project has been designed drawing upon the World Bank Group’s experience in Sub-Saharan Africa 
and other regions and has benefited from the inputs of various World Bank Group specialized teams, and 
from the utilization of a strong in-country dialogue with stakeholders.  Specifically the Project draws 
upon the large amount of analytical work carried out by the World Bank Group and the Government of 
Mauritius in recent years, including the 2006 Aid for Trade Report, the 2006 Investment Climate 
Page  6
Assessment, along with findings of the 2009 Enterprise Survey, the annual Doing Business surveys, 
FSAP, CEM, the 2006 Governance and Anticorruption Report (GAC), and literature referencing best 
practices for SME development programs around the world (2002). Lessons have also been learned from 
the experiences of projects supported by other development partners in the sector and from the 
experiences of Mauritius Chambers of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), the Joint Economic Council 
(JEC) and the Board of Investment in promoting a competitive business environment in Mauritius.  
 
6.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
7. Contact point 
 
Contact: Asya Akhlaque 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8780 
Fax: (202) 614-8780 
Email: aakhlaque@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
