Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/26/2009 
Report No.:  51530
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Mauritius 
Project ID:  P112943 
Project Name:  MU-Manufacturing and Servs Dev and Compet 
Task Team Leader:  Asya Akhlaque 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 14, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: December 10, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTFE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Micro- and SME finance (50%);General industry and trade sector (50%) 
Theme:  Small and medium enterprise support (100%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall objective of the proposed project is to support enterprise growth, 
competitiveness and employment creation in manufacturing and services sectors. This 
will be achieved by: (i) improving access to quality Business Development Services 
(BDS); (ii) strengthening institutional and policy support; and (iii) increasing access to 
finance to credit constrained businesses.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will be structured around the following integrated pillars:  
 
Component One: 
  Improving access to quality Business Development Services 
(BDS);  
 
Component Two: 
  Strengthening Institutional and Policy Support for existing 
public-sector SME related institutions;  
 
Component Three:   Increasing access to finance to credit constrained businesses; and  
 
Component Four:  
Project Coordination and Management  
 
Page  2
Component One: 
 Improving access to quality Business Development Services 
(BDS)  
 
(Project funds allocated - US$ 12million)  
 
This component supports enterprise productivity and competitiveness, specifically in 
areas of skills and training, technology upgrading, standards and marketing constraints 
facing SMEs. Public provided BDS are often not well-aligned with the needs of the 
SMEs. Facilitating the provision of services by private providers and stimulating the 
demand for them by small enterprise clients raises service coverage, quality and 
sustainability.  
 
This component shall involve establishing a Mauritius Business Growth Scheme 
[MBGS], with the aim to strengthen the capacity and international competitiveness of 
private businesses. The Scheme will deliver two "products" to individual firms, intended 
to complement each other:  
 
*
Cost-sharing grants, to buy specialized outside expertise;  
 
*
Hand-holding, or "mentoring", helping each firm to plan and execute a growth plan, 
stage by stage - typically based on quarterly firm visits.  
 
These two "products" will be available to any privately-controlled commercial entity, 
operating legally within Mauritius.   These two products can be used to support any 
commercial activity contributing to the economy of Mauritius, and operating for profit, 
including commercial agriculture and commercial fishing. Financial services and trading 
oriented to the domestic market are the only activities expressly excluded.  
 
It is expected that a new official definition for SME#s will be gazetted soon. This is 
likely to define "small" as having sales below MUR10m and "medium" as having sales 
from MUR10-50m.   It is likely that most of the firms that access the MBGS will be 
"SMEs", under these new definitions.  Only a very small proportion of the total 
population of firms has sales above MUR50m. However, it is important to note that 
MBGS support will be open to all private firms, in all size categories, since the overall 
objective is to facilitate private-sector growth.  
 
The Scheme would be directed by an MBGS Manual, to be agreed between the World 
Bank and the Government.  Systems would be developed to ensure compliance with the 
terms of this manual, but with the minimum possible paperwork and complexity.  
 
Funding: The total MBGS funding to be made available, over the project period, would 
be $12.0m, including the cost of operating the MBGS Unit.  
 
Implementation & Management of MBGS: World Bank experience with such schemes 
highlights the importance of operational independence. It is vital that the Unit managing 
the Scheme is visibly and operationally independent from the machinery of government.  
The Unit would therefore be set up as an independent project entity but accountable to a 
joint private-public Project Steering Committee (called MTSP Committee), with the 
Page  3
MBGS Manager reporting to the Committee. The PCU at MoBEC shall be responsible 
for administrative functions related to fiduciary aspects.  
 
Component Two:  
Strengthening Policy and Institutional Support  
 
(Project funds allocated - US$ 3.9 million)  
 
In support of Government's efforts to streamline SME related public sector institutions 
and policies to strengthen quality and sustainability of services, this component focuses 
on:  (a) rationalization and consolidation of existing public sector SME institutions and 
programs; and (b) establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) unit to evaluate 
SME programs to strengthen performance and accountability.  
 
With respect to the first sub-component, which supports Government's initiative to 
restructure and convert the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) into a Development 
Agency (DA),  and the consolidation of the SEHDA, and the NWEC, following are the 
agreed key activities of support: (a) to identify and rationalize key services based on a 
thorough analysis of market gaps and needs; (b) to minimize duplication and overlap of 
functions; (c) to assist in drafting requisite legislation and regulations for the new agency; 
(d) to provide technical assistance in establishing appropriate corporate governance 
arrangements, risk management systems, and internal controls; (e) to prepare a human 
resources plan and develop and conduct staff training programs; (f) to acquire the 
appropriate software and/or equipment; (g) to develop new products aimed at improving 
the creditworthiness of SMEs and catalyzing private financing, including partial risk 
guarantees; (h) to assist DBM in winding down or disposing of discontinued lines of 
business; (i) to develop and implement a communications strategy to explain the 
transition and rationale for the conversion to stakeholders, staff, and the general public; 
and (j) to establish a budget and financial plan for the new agency.  
 
The second sub-component would support the establishment of a Monitoring and 
Evaluation (M&E) unit.  A lack of systematic monitoring and evaluation has been a 
notable weakness of past government programs to support SMEs. This new M&E system 
will help Mauritius to better design future SMEs support programs by providing a 
meaningful evaluation of the impact of earlier programs. A good M&E system requires 
the creation of a dedicated and independent unit in charge of: (a) recruiting and training 
its staff to conduct, manage, and supervise M&E activities; (b) selecting the support 
schemes to be evaluated; (c) identifying specific aspects to be evaluated; (d) creating data 
systems and procedures; and (e) disseminating the findings to the appropriate 
stakeholders. This sub-component will fund an assessment of existing M&E functions 
and their strengths and weaknesses. The sub-component will support the setting up of the 
unit, the creation of a database of schemes for SMEs, undertaking the evaluations, and 
dissemination of findings. While the M&E unit would be housed in the new agency, it 
would be autonomous and involve private sector associations, including MCCI and SME 
Federation - as oversight bodies and key stakeholders.  For this effort to be valuable and 
effective it is important that the M&E unit be independent from any particular agency in 
charge of service provision. All surveys should be out-sourced to ensure independence. 
Page  4
Finally, it is equally important that the findings of the evaluation be publicly available in 
order to mobilize civil society as user of the government services.  
 
Component Three:   Increasing access to finance to credit constrained SMEs  
 
(Project funds allocated - US$ 1.5 million)  
 
Informed by technical work and discussions, this component shall address the two major 
impediments for SMEs# access to finance: (i) lack of capacity to develop and present 
bankable proposals; (ii) a lack of collateral required by banks in support of lending, and 
(iii) a temporary constraint linked to the global crisis, which has resulted in a tightening 
of credit to riskier segments of the market. It will also finance further analysis of market 
failures, the reasons for these gaps, and propose solutions to address them.  As the 
binding constraints for access to finance for SMEs appear to stem primarily from the 
demand side of financial markets, they would be best addressed by focusing on technical 
assistance to SMEs to develop and present bankable proposals to lending banks. This 
technical assistance will be provided under the BDS component.  
 
This component will provide technical assistance in the following areas: (i) to assist in 
the design of partial risk guarantees and other financial products aimed at catalyzing 
market finance;  (ii) to provide technical assistance and strengthen implementation of the 
new MTSP/SME program; (iii) to undertake a thorough analysis of supply and demand 
for finance among MSMEs to identify possible market failures, and reasons for the gaps; 
and (iv) to propose appropriate solutions for market segments where private lenders may 
not be willing to assume credit risk (e.g. microenterprises and start-ups).  
 
Component Four: 
 Project Coordination and Management  
 
(Project funds allocated - US$ 0.6 million)  
 
Project Coordination and Management: To support overall project coordination, 
management and facilitation among MBGS Unit MoFEE and MoBEC, a PCU has been 
established under the Ministry of Business Enterprises and Cooperatives (MoBEC).  The 
PCU would carry out the project management functions in accordance with project 
objectives and agreed GoM and World Bank guidelines, facilitate coordination among 
implementing agencies, undertake day-to-day facilitation including provision of the 
needed financial management and procurement support, facilitate necessary actions based 
on the implementation progress, and prepare the quarterly progress reports for PSC 
monitoring and Bank#s supervision. The project shall provide part of the operating costs 
to support operations of the   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Countrywide - Mauritius   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Noreen Beg (AFTEN) 
 
Page  5
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Since there are no investment components in the project, and since the overall objective 
of the project is to support the manufacturing and services sectors in general (see above)  
i.e., there is no focus on any specific industry or industry segment) the project as such 
shall not have adverse environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally 
important areas. It is rated as a C category.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As evidenced in the Country System Safeguard Diagnostic Review undertaken by the 
Bank and currently nearing completion , the Ministry of Environment has a strong 
commitment to environmental protection.  It is well on the way to bringing the EIA 
process in line with international standards, as witnessed through the issuance of the 
#Proponent#s Guide to Environmental Impact Assessment# (EIA Guidelines) and 
sectoral guidelines in areas such as #Integrated Resort Schemes# (and recent EIRs 
produced under the guidelines). The Environmental Protection Act (2002) EPA spells out 
the following as requirements for all undertakings:  
 
-
An undertaking specified in Part A of the First Schedule requires preparation and 
approval of a Preliminary Environmental Report (PER). This PER applies to less 
polluting projects and does not require an outline. There are general guidelines for 
Page  6
preparing PER projects on the MoE website. (Most of the projects under the MBGS will 
fall in this category.)  
 
-An undertaking specified in Part B of the First Schedule requires an EIA license.  To 
apply for a license, a proponent must submit to the Director an EIA report.  A proponent, 
unless applying through the Board of Investment, must provide the Director with an 
outline of his/her proposed undertaking, including its location, nature and scope, at least 3 
months before submitting his application for an EIA license.  Failure to do so may result 
in a rejection of an application for a license.  
 
The EIA Guidelines go even further than the Environmental Protection Act, calling for 
:attention to cumulative environmental impacts; consideration of  
#strategic/local/regional/national impacts#;  
 
#socio-economic# and #socio-cultural# impacts; and  
 
the need to comply with zoning requirements.  
 
The EIA Guideline requires that EIA Reports include a section for #Monitoring and 
Maintenance# including #future maintenance requirements;# and provides for 
consideration of #do nothing option,# e.g. impact on future land use.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Page  7
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Asya Akhlaque 
10/27/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Noreen Beg 
10/27/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
10/27/2009 
Comments:   
