E606
Volume3
The Arab Republic of Egypt
Matrouh Resources Management Project II (MRMPII)
Process Framework for Community Participation in
Biodiversity Conservation and Protected Areas Management
I. Introduction
1.     Project Development Objective.
The overarching objective of this Matrouh Resource Management Project II (MIRMP II) is to
contribute to improve the welfare of the stakeholders, especially the more disadvantaged rural
people and, thus, contribute to poverty alleviation. This will be done through community
development, developmg their capacity to access services to improve their livelihood and increase
their incomes while at the same time strengthening their capacity to conserve, rehabilitate and
use their natural resources in a sustainable manner.
It will be achieved by
(a) assistmg communities, uicluding women and the poor, to organize themselves and partcipate
in community-based planning and implementation of development activities;
(b) assisting communities to conserve, rehabilitate and sustainably manage the natural resource
base through  developing  appropriate  community-based  institutional processes and
mechanisms;
(c) improving small holder sustainable agriculture, horticulture and livestock production;
(d) promoting market-linked off-farm income generatmg activities, mauily targeting women; and
(e) providing improved access to technical, financial and commercial services.
Within this framework of mtegrated resource management, GEF support is sought to address
global environmental concerns in the day-to-day management of resources, as well as mainstream
environmental dimensions into overall planning and implementation of development activities in
the area.
2. Approach
Whilst the first project set out to break the cycle of natural resource degradation and poverty, the
overarchmg objective of the follow-on project will be rural poverty reduction through sustainable
community-driven development  MRMP I achieved considerable success in pioneering the
participatory approach in the challenging environment of a traditional (male domnated) tribal
social system and m gammg the trust and confidence of the Bedouin people. MRMPII will build
upon the successes of the first Project, to further the participatory process to empower local
communities and aim at achieving development sustainability. This entails greater responsibility
and authority bemg passed to local communities that have been prepared, tramed and given the
requisite guidance to accept such responsibilities.
Thus, the follow-on project will move towards a community-driven development (CDD)
approach, tailored to fit the socio-economic conditions of the communities. The CDD approach
will of necessity be incremental and phased Gradually, it will require a greater involvement by
local communities mi decision makmg regardmg resource allocation, as well as their involvement
in implementing, monitormg and evaluating all project activities.  When elaboratuig their
Community Action Plans, the communities will choose from among a menu of activities financed
under the project



The GEF initiative will be fully integrated within the MRMP II as a blended project. It will fill In
the voids that previously have not been properly addressed and will work closely with the Nature
Conservation Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency, the Matrouh Govemorate and
the target population to design and implement conservation plans that are inclusive and
sustainable.
3. Institutional Framework
Project management arrangements will largely follow the structure established under MRMP I,
but other stakeholders will be involved to reflect the enhanced focus on environmental and
participatory aspects Execution responsibility will be assigned to the Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency (EEAA) for the implementation of the biodiversity conservation activities with
autonomous fundmg. Coordination will be enhanced with the Governorate and relevant Ministries
to ensure the sustainability of services beyond the project life.
Goverming bodies The National Coordination Comruttee under the chairmanship of the National
Coordmator appointed by MALR will remaln in place, but its membership will be revised and
under MRMP II, it should take a more active role m the affairs of the project The NCC includes
representatives of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA)-central level, the Secretary General of Matrouh
Govemorate, the Project's Director General and Deputy Director General and where appropnate,
representatives of bi/multi-lateral projects bemg executed m the project area.
At the Governorate level, the Project Coordination Comnunttee (PCC) will have its mandate and
membership updated to ensure representation of various actors m the region (Governmental, Non-
governmental, relevant projects) especially with regard to the Health and Education services
which were not part of the PCC under the first project. Now that the project will support the
Govemnorate Environmental Management Unit (EMU) and that the NCS/ EEAA will be directly
responsible for the set-up and management of the proposed two Protectorates, it is essential that
these entities become full partners in project implementation. It is also envisaged that under
MRMP 11, local community representatives will be included in the Project Coordination
Commuttee.
The PCC would coordinate the project implementation among the participating executing
agencies, review and approve annual work programs with budgetary allocations based upon the
Community Action Plans. It would also facilitate cooperation between the project and other
projects and government agencies in the project area, in particular regarding health sensitisation
programs and women and girls literacy programs. Initially the PCC should meet once a month and
subsequently once every quarter.
Proiect implementation arrangements The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would coordinate the
implementation of the project activities through its five Sub-Regional Support Centers (SRSCs),
supported by research carried out under the Matrouh Applied Research Center (MARC) The PCU
has full admmnistrative and financial autonomy, mcluding the disbursement of project funds. Over
the years, it has acquired considerable experience with the implementation of an IDA funded
project.
Modifications would be made to the organizational structure to reflect the changes in emphasis,
namely, the greater focus on community planning, gender, environmental protection, range
management and off-farm income generating activities, mcluding more efficient access to and
dissemination of project-related mformation within the project and between the project and the
communities. There would be three implementing units under the PCU.
m  Community Development Unit - with a Gender Sub-unit;
*   Integrated Natural Resource Management Unit - comprising the Land and Water
Management Sub-unit (including Roads); Range Management Sub-unit; and
Biodiversity Conservation Sub-unit (EEAA/NCS seconded staff);



*   Income-Generating Activites - comprising Agricultural and Livestock Services Sub-
unit and an Off-farm Activities, Agro-processing and Marketung Sub-unit.
Each Unit would be autonomous, headed by its own manager and responsible for managing its
own budget The budget for each Unit would be made up of the Sub-units budgets. The Unut
managers, together with the head of the Financial Management Unit and the Directors of the Sub
Regional Support Centers would constitute a task force for coordinatmg the planning and the
implementation of the activities. The task force would meet at least monthly and would be chaired
by the DDG
The Biodiversity Conservation Sub-unit will be headed by a EEAA seconded manager The GEF
contribution will partially finance the secondment of three staff from the Nature Conservation
Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (NCS/EEAA) They will be responsible for
the implementation of the actvities related to the species conservation and training in protected
area management, flora and fauna conservation, and comnunity participation in conservation.
This unit will be located in the PCU to enhance coorduiation and the adoption of multi-
disciplinary approaches to implementation. However, it will manage a separate budget The
recurrent costs of this unit will be gradually taken up by EEAA so as to ensure financial
sustainability of this supporting structure to facilitate its integration within the separate Protected
Area Management (PAM) office by the end of the project life. Support for the initiation and set-up
of the Protected Areas Management (PAM) office will also be undertaken by the GEF
contnbution, physically located separately from the PCU  It is envisaged that m the start=up
phase, the PAM can be temporarily housed in one of the SRSCs until official declaration and
preparatory work is completed.
Chan2e in Management Culture. The core concern of MRMP-II is achieving sustamability
through fostering self-reliance and promoting community ownership of the development process
The focus on building the capacity of the communities will require some changes m the
management culture in order to create the space for the communities to develop their own
managerial capabilities It will require Project staff to adopt a supportive and facilitating role
rather than an implementmg role. Changes would mclude in particular re-defming the terms of
reference and staff profiles for all senior project staff (both managerial and techmcal).
II. General Principles of the Process Framework
A. The Context: conservation and restriction of access to resources in the Protected
Areas
Some of the project components may trigger the Banks Policy m Involuntary Resettlement (PO
4.12) specifically with regards to the clause on loss of access to natural resources in protected
areas The component on Biodiversity Conservation includes support for the establishment of two
Protected Areas in the project. This support will include the necessary preparation studies and
surveys prior to clear designation of the boundaries and set-up of the participatory management
plans. The preparation phase leading up to official declaration of the area is expected to last
between two and three years. Following the preparatory phase, the official designation of the PA's
may entail restricted access to natural resources, mainly with regards to grazing and fuel wood
cutting. It is envisaged that the partcipatory management plans will include regulation for the use
of natural resources within the PA's based on full community involvement, and with the ultimate
goal for ensuring the sustainable livelihoods of the communities.
All 21 established Protected Areas m Egypt have been delmeated according to Law 83/1982 based
on a Prime Ministerial Decree issued upon the proposal of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency of the Cabinet of Ministers. The national legislation defines the Nature Conservation
Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) as the body mandated with the
management and implementation of the provisions of the relevant laws and its executive decrees,
with the objective of conserving Protected Areas and protecting them. The law specifies those



activities that are prohibited in Protected Areas, including huntmg, damaging of plants and living
organisms, mtroduce foreign species, pollute water, air and soil and erect buildings and structures
without the permussion of the concerned admunistrative body. These limitations of access will in
the case of PA's under MRMPII be small m scale, given that current human activities m the
potential identified sites are limuted in scope. In the event that there is a non-conformity with the
requirements of the Bank's Policy 4 12, this process framework will be used.
B. Process Framework for Communitv Consultation and Participation
Steps for the formulation of a participatory strategy. The participatory strategy will consist of:
(i) identification and carrying out a consensus of the people potentially affected by the project, (b)
definition of the eligibility criteria for the project affected population, (c) formulation of the
criteria for the identification of vulnerable groups; (d) elaboration of the process for consultation
and dialogue; (e) propositions for the inclusion of the population m the implementation of the PA
management plans
I    Community awareness and mobilization
A Protected Area Management (PAM) office will be formed for each of the two PA's. It should be
noted that the official establishment of these PAMs will only be after the official declaration of the
areas by Prime Ministerial Decree However, prior to the official declaration, and through the
support of the MRMPII project, the following preparatory steps will be undertaken.
-    Support for environmental awareness and education through formal and informal
education channels
-    Inclusion of environmental dimension m the elaboration of the Community Action
Plans and training of community representatives (inandubeen) to enhance their
knowledge of environmental and conservation concerns
-    Formulation of site-specific draft management plans
-    Adoption of measures aimed towards the protection of biodiversity in specific
zones (hotspots) in cooperation with the Biodiversity Management Unit within the
PCU.
2. Participatory process
The project is moving towards implementing a full Community Driven Development (CDD)
approach, which entails a greater mvolvement by local comniunities in decision making regarding
resource allocation, as well as their involvement in implementmg, monitoring and evaluating all
project activities. This will also be applied to the implementation of biodiversity conservation
activities, includmg the establishment of the Protected Areas Hence, the population will be
involved, to the extent possible, in the identification of the threatened or vulnerable resources as
well as the methods, locations and conditions under which stakeholders and affected populations
utilize specific resources. This will be an mput to the plannig for resource use and for the
definition and formulation of the mitigation of negative impacts and alternative livelihoods
options for the populations.
Precedence from management plans that are being currently implemented indicate that
NCS/EEAA adopt a fully participative approach in involving the beneficiary communities. For
example, In the case of the St. Katherine Protectorate, guards from within the communities are
being used, and the Protectorate management unit is full involved in alternative income generating
activities, including traditional handicrafts and eco-tounsm activities for the sustained benefit of
the population. This model will be replicated under MRMPII, making use of the lessons learned,
given the similanty in socio-economc and cultural settings of the population.
Community representation will also be ensured for the PCC at the local level. Modalities will also
be defined to ensure that the interests of women are also represented.



3   Key Steps for a Strategv
*    Identification of affected people- once the two PA's are officially declared, a defmtlon of
people directly affected by restriction of access will be made
*    Eligibility criteri-a of project affected people will be defined, includmg, inter alia, physical
presence m the PA for a certain number of years, dependency on the resources and benefits
and claims of use of the resources
*    Criter-iafor the identrficationi of vulnerable groups: Given the focus of the project on poorer
strata of the population, it will be important to identify from the onset of PA establishment
those groups that that Nvill be most vulnerable to restriction of access. Criteria for the
identification of these groups could include: inability to fulfil their dietary needs, lack of
other means for livestock feeding, use of small plots for subsistence or having tenancy
status, lack of access to basic infrastructure These groups will have priority in provision of
alternative livelihood and mcome generating activities, as well as water harvesting
mfrastructure if needed. This will be include m the process of CAP formulation.
C. Budget for the Execution of the Process Framework Provisions
The budget for the execution of this process framework is included in the overall project budget
(community capacity building, training, education, techmucal assistance and off-farm mcome
generating activities) in addition to an un-allocated sum of $ 300,000 as Land Compensation
Fund. The guidelines for utilizing this fund will be detailed based on the eligibility criteria
identified at the onset of the project and will be used for provision of alternative livelihood sources
of affected population in case of lack thereof through other components of the project.
D. Process of Consultation for Conflict Resolution and Modalities for the Settlement of
Claims
In case of conflicting views and opinions concerming the utilization of resources, the PAM and
PCC will be the forum for dispute resolution If no acceptable solution is reached, their claim
should be presented to the NCC that will strive to reach appropriate solution.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Process Framework
The measures taken to execute this process framework will be the responsibility of the
Biodiversity unit and PAM umts, and will be monitored by the PCU management. It should be
noted that while preparatory work will start at the onset of project implementation, reporting on
the implementation of the process framework will only occur once the PA's are officially
established. The monitoring reports will be submitted by the head of the Biodiversity Unit in
coordmation with the PA managers and will be followed closely by the Bank during project
supervision The performance indicators to ensure that the measures included m this process
framework are taken into account are mcluded in the project log-frame (% of appropriate
management plans for the area implemented with full commnunity and stakeholder involvement,
local communities actively involved in the management of hotspots and community conservation
areas and undertaking flora and fauna surveys, rules and procedures to allocate resources among
community members are: (i) implemented, (ii) written in a local community document (iii) known
by community members)
WB 16053
P \LUNITS\MNSRE\SOLIMAN\Egypt\MATRUH lI\Process Framework JUNE 9 doc
June 12, 2002 12 03 PM



