E606
Volume 1                     20/04/02
EGYPT: SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (MRiMP II)
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
I.        OBJECTIVE
The objective of this Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is to identify the
environmental mitigation measures, screening process, capacity-building and monitoring
activities that will be undertaken, as well as the institutional arrangements that will be set up,
during implementation of the MRMP II to ensure that any potential adverse environmental
impacts are either eliminated or minimised. The EMP also proposes an implementation
schedule for undertaking these activities and indicates their costs included in the project
budget.
II.       MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
The overall environmental impacts of the MRMP II are expected to be positive,
including increased environmental awareness (particularly among women), improved range
and watershed management, sustainable agricultural practices, enhanced biodiversity
conservation, and expanded protected area management. The project will not negatively alter
the ecosystem nor cause significant environmental harm during the undertaking of water
harvesting and road construction works. The inclusion of the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) component will ensure that environmental considerations are mainstreamed in the
MRMP II by seconding Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) staff to the MRMP
II Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and strengthening the capacity of environmental staff in
the Matruh Govemorate's Environmental Management Unit (EMU). Furthermore, the GEF
component will finance, among other activities, the establishment and management of two
protected areas at Saloum and El Qasr within the project area.
A. ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
RECOMMENDED MITIGATION iMEASURES
Overall, activities financed under the MRMP II will have positive environmental
impacts. The environmental benefits from project activities in MRMP I are noticeable and
will continue to be so in MRMP II - indeed the very fabric of the project is to improve the
natural resource base in order to alleviate poverty. The Environmental Assessment (EA)
identified the following issues, addressed below, for which potential impacts and mitigation
measures are detailed:
1. Drinking Water Quality: In discussions with PCU technical staff the EA identified
dimking water quality as the primary potential issue related to the water harvesting activities
of the MRMP II. A 1994 GTZ water analysis of selected cistems in the North West Coastal
Zone concluded that concentrations of E. coli (indicator enterobacterium for bacteriological
contamination) in water collected from cisterns were 1,000-10,000 times WHO guidelines. (E
Coli are a particular type of coliform bacteria whose presence in drinking water is more
serious than other coliform bacteria because they are disease-causing. They indicate that
water has been contaminated by sewage or animal wastes that contain other disease-causing
micro-organisms which can cause severe diarrhoea, cramps, and nausea.) Unfortunately, no
more recent water quality data are available. While discussions with the local population on
nr=      gm           GE 



20/04/02
the most prevalent diseases indicated that the above water-related diseases were not perceived
as the highest importance (diseases related to malnutrion and eye infections were the most
frequently quoted), it is recommended as a matter of prudence to implement proper mitigation
measures to minimize any potential risks.
Source Mitigation Measuires. Mitigation measures at the source include improved
water management practices and water quality monitoring:
* Cisterns will be dredged approximately every three years to restore the dead storage
capacity taken up by sedimentation. (Silt loads captured thanks to silt traps, while minimal
in quantity, may be re-utilised as organic fertiliser in agricultural areas, as they may
contain a certain level of nutrient washed away from topsoil by wind and water erosion.)
* Ideally, animals would be kept away from the cisterns used for drinking water, or at least
away from the part that serves as the catchment area. In addition, wherever possible,
separate cistems should be built for human and animal purposes, instead of cisterns that
provide for both uses contemporaneously. However, since most of the smaller families
with limited income levels would have difficulties in drawing such a distinction (since
they will only have one cistern for use by the family, for supplementary irrigation and for
stock watering), water management practices that could be adopted by lower-income
families will require that animal drinking troughs be kept away from human-purpose
cistems, and use project- supplied hand pumps and hose to convey water to the animals at
a distance of about 30 meters away.
* Cisterns specifically used as potable water sources for humans should be closed during the
first rainfall and re-opened at the second. It is also recommended that cisterns be closed
during the first 10-15 minutes of every rainfall. Although these recommendations may be
difficult to implement given the extreme shortage of water in the region, project
beneficiaries should regardless be advised of this option.
*  A  new  dnnking water quality analysis will be undertaken by the MRMP II in
collaboration with the Ministry of Health, and periodic water quality monitoring will be
incorporated into the project monitoring program.
Water Treatment Mitigation Measuires Treatment mitigation measures involve
the sterilisation of water. This will require further work in the context of MRMP II, in
addressing the various alternatives to water sterilisation. Some options to obtaining sterilised
drinking water are suggested in Annex 1.
*  The MRMP II will undertake awareness-raising with respect to improving drinking water
quality (promoting filtenng, Solar Water Disinfection (SODIS), chlorination, or boiling
water, as appropriate) in the local communities, primarily among women.
* The MRMP II will study appropriate alternative renewable energy sources for power
generation for water treatment', and consider the provision of various types of stoves
(using renewable energy) for cooking and boiling water. Solar and wind energy options
will be explored and demonstration units established at each community, with cost-benefit
analyses conducted.
2. Planning and Implementation of Range Rehabilitation Units: The EA also identified
potential environmental impacts related to the range rehabilitation activities of the MRMP II.
Alternative energy sources will also be sought to power micro-enterpnses in the remote rural communities of the project
area



20/04/02
The location/spacing of "biodiversity islands" (range protected areas) should be planned, and
a map of proposed areas developed, to incorporate possible corridors (e.g. for wildlife), but
also to maintain a connectivity between the areas for habitat (such as habitat for pollinators).
Minimum tillage should be practised, as excessive tillage promotes wind and water erosion.
Nutrient management also needs to be optimised. Silt captured from silt traps, animal waste,
and human excrement collected from latrines are rich in nutrients and could be used as
organic fertiliser. A more detailed description of the proposed mitigation measures is given in
the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
3. Construction of Small Sub-projects (community centres, latrines and cisterns):
Finally, the EA identified potential environmental impacts from the small-scale infrastructure
sub-projects and rural roads financed by the MRMP II. Planning the location of these sub-
projects should be done through a participatory approach and addressed in the Community
Action Plans. Construction and operation of the structures should follow the good
practices/mitigation measures outlined in the Environmental Guidelines Manual. The
construction of cisterns must: (i) incorporate a silt trap, sediment basin and sieve on the inlet
side of the cistem to reduce the sediment load; (ii) separate cisterns for drinking water from
those for animal and irrigation purposes; and (iii) avoid collecting water from the first rainfall
as this carries the highest level of pathogenic micro-organisms. Contamination by animal
waste should be avoided, and training should be provided on the long-term maintenance of
these structures.
4. Rural Roads: Roads should be selected through a participatory approach and designed to
interrupt cross-drainage as little as possible. Where the road interrupts natural drainage,
culverts and siphons will be installed. Road design should ensure that roads will not
significantly impede the passage of wildlife. Road construction will ensure, to the degree
possible, non-susceptibility to erosion from floods by planting trees along the road to act as
wind breaks and soil fixators. Construction and maintenance should follow the guidance
provided in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
3



20/04/02
B. ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING OF SUB-PROJECTS
To ensure that sub-projects financed under the MRMP II are in compliance with
Egyptian environmental requirements (and consistent with World Bank safeguard policies),
all sub-projects with potential adverse environmental impacts will undergo environmental
screening as detailed in the Environmental Guidelines Manual prepared for the MRMP II. In
summary, the review process will involve the use of environmental screening checklists
(prepared with and reviewed by PCU staff) to ensure environmental safeguard compliance
and to determine whether sub-projects require formal review in accordance with procedures
established by the EEAA in its Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA
Guidelines). The EIA Guidelines implement the EIA requirements of Environmental Law No.
4/1994 and its Executive Regulations and establish the procedures for environmental
screening and approval of projects with potential environmental impacts by EEAA. The
MRMP II will utilise the checklist screening process and EEAA EIA Guidelines to meet the
environmental assessment safeguard requirements of World Bank OP 4.01 .2
Under the EIA Guidelines, projects with potential negative environmental impacts
are classified into three colour-coded categories according to the severity of environmental
impacts:
* White list projects for those with minor environmental impacts
*   Grey list projects for those that may result in substantial environmental impacts
*   Black list projects for those that may require complete EIA due to potential severity of
impacts
The EA determined that the vast majority of MRMP II sub-projects with potential
adverse environmental impacts are small in scale with minimal impact and thus are not
expected to require formal EEAA review. A few sub-projects, e.g., rural roads, may be white
list projects and thus require EEAA or Matruh EMU review. No MRMP II sub-projects are
expected to be grey list or black list projects. The EIA Guidelines set out the procedures for
complying with the EIA requirements. The level of environmental screening and procedures
for review and approval by EEAA vary by category and are detailed in the Environmental
Guidelines Manual. The PCU will ensure that MRMP [I sub-projects comply with these
screening procedures.
2 Other safeguards that have been addressed by the EA are.
OD 4 20 (Indigenous Peoples) The objective at the center of OD 4.20 is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer
adverse effects dunng the development process In the case of ,IRMP 11, indigenous peoples (Bedouins) compnse the entire
population living in the target area, and therefore OP 4 20 is tnggered However, since the Bedouins are the sole Project
beneficianes, the MRMP 11 is designed through a thorough participatory process. and all project interventions have been
designed with the improvement of the status of the Bedouins (poverty alleviation, access to water. improved rangeland
management, social well-being, etc), there is no need for the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
OP 4 12 (Involuntary Resettlement) The project will undertake the identification and declaration of two protected areas (PAs)
in the project zone These will be defined based on their biodiversity significance, status of degradation and potential for
conservation and alternative economic activities that can be built on the new conservation status. This will be undertaken
with the full participation of the local communities in the identification of the PAs and the design and implementation of the
PA management plans, as is the case in other similar established PAs in Egypt. The issue of loss of income or means of
livelihoods resulting from the delineation and declaration of protected areas under the project will be assessed based on the
definition of the exact boundaries following preparatory and consultation phases with the stakeholders and local
communities. which is expected to take two years Pnor to appraisal, the team will prepare a Process Framework outlining
the steps and participatory process by which the PA component will be prepared, and the critena for eligibility of displaced
persons will be determined. If the creation of the PAs does result in the displacement of persons, the means to assist these
persons in their efforts to improve their livelihoods or at least restore them, will be addressed, and potential conflict
resolution mechanisms and monitonng and follow-up arrangements will be presented
4



20/04/02
III.      ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND CAPACITY PROGRAM
In order to ensure proper implementation of environmental screening and
mitigation measures, as well as effective watershed and range management, biodiversity
conservation, and protected area preparation and management, the MRMP II will undertake
an intensive program of environmental training and institutional capacity building.
A. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING FOR PCU/EEAA/EMU STAFF AND
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
The MRMP II will provide national and international experts to deliver training to
PCU management and staff, EEAA field staff, and Matruh EMU personnel designed to build
capacity for effective environmental management under the project, including environmental
review, assessment, and mitigation of all significant project-financed activities and
implementation of the integrated ecosystem management approaches supported by the project.
Such training will cover environmental policy and regulations, range resource inventory and
evaluation, carbon sequestration and biomass inventory, socio-economic surveying, species
monitoring and evaluation, protected area management, and participatory training on the
specific environmental issues and mitigation measures identified by the EA. It will also
include training trainers and providing refresher courses in all of the topics identified.
As part of the Community Development component, the MRMP II will provide
basic training to local community representatives and members of the wider community in
integrated environmental management/protection and environmental screening/impact
assessment, and biodiversity/range management practices. Also, to strengthen development
capacity among women in the communities, the MRMP II will promote environmental
awareness programs to assist women in effective management of potable water resources and
in sustainable utilisation and management of the natural resource base. The GEF activities
will promote formal and informal environmental education, including the design of curricula
and preparation of educational materials, in the schools and at the community centres in the
project area.
B.        CAPACITY BUILDING FOR THE PCU, EEAA, AND MATRUH
GOVERNORATE EMU
The MRMP II will build environmental management capacity within the PCU by
establishing a new Natural Resource Management Department comprising units for Land and
Watershed Management, Range Management, and Biodiversity Conservation. The latter unit
will require additional PCU environmental management staff and will include three staff
seconded from the Nature Conservation Sector (NCS) of EEAA (partially financed by the
project) to work with the PCU for the life of the project. These EEAA/NCS field staff will be
responsible for implementing the activities related to protected areas designation and
management, including species conservation. community participation in biodiversity
conservation, and training in protected areas management. Vehicles and equipment also will
be provided in order to support the implementation of the new activities related to biodiversity
conservation under the project.
In addition, the MRMP II will provide the Matruh Govemorate's EMU with two
part-time environmental experts, i.e., an environmental screening/impact assessment expert
and an environmental monitoring expert, for the five-year life of the project. These experts
5



20/04/02
will work closely with EMU environmental staff, Matruh Govemorate officials (particularly
in land-use planning and coastal development) and project staff to provide training in
environmental screening and impact assessment, integrated environmental and resource
management planning, and environmental monitoring and evaluation. They will train trainers
and assist with course compilation of training material for the project. As needed by the
Matruh Govemorate, these experts will also perform duties outside the project to ensure the
implementation of an integrated ecosystem approach to the region, regarding development
and compliance with environmental laws in urban areas and in coastal tourism centres.
IV.       ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
Although the MRMP I established a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E Unit)
to perform regular monitoring and evaluation of project activities, the M&E Unit did only
limited environmental monitoring. Thus the MRMP II will have to build capacity within the
M&E Unit, as well as in the new Natural Resource Management Department, to perform
specific environmental monitoring and evaluation functions for the project.
A. MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION MEASURES
Just as the M&E Unit will monitor implementation of MRMP II sub-projects, it
also will assume responsibility for monitoring compliance with environmental screening
requirements and implementation of any mitigation measures for sub-projects required, either
by EEAA or the Matruh EMU, as a result of environmental screening. Furthermore, the M&E
Unit will periodically monitor specified indicators of environmental impacts of the MRMP II
(e.g., drinking water quality, incidence of water-bome diseases, terrestrial biodiversity,
rangeland regenerative capacity). This environmental monitoring will be incorporated into the
overall MRMP II monitoring plan required as part of project performance by the World Bank.
The results of such monitoring will be recorded and reported in the PCU's bi-annual progress
reports to the Bank and will be reviewed by Bank supervision missions. In the context of the
GEF program, the M&E Unit will develop a specific monitoring program, with verifiable
indicators (e.g., changes from baseline conditions in diversity of flora and fauna, area devoted
to community conservation efforts, area devoted to cultivation of medicinal herbs), to monitor
and evaluate progress in achieving and sustaining expected global environmental benefits. A
set of performance indicators for the implementation of the EMP has been included in the
Environmental Guidelines Manual (Table 5).
B. MONITORING ENVIRONNIENTAL DATA
Where the Natural Resource Management Department, through its technical units,
undertakes specialised studies, surveys or research efforts, it will assume responsibility for
monitoring the results and evaluating the impacts. For example, under the GEF component,
the Biodiversity Conservation Unit will test the regenerative capacity of rangeland plants
under various management regimes in order to assist in estimating the carrying capacity of the
rangelands. Environmental monitoring of this sort will be used to evaluate and support the
biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem management approaches promoted by the
project. A set of monitoring indicators for the biodiversity and ecosystem has been included
in the Environmental Guidelines Manual (Table 4).
6



20/04/02
V.        IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation of the EMP will be shared among the PCU, EEAA, and the
Matruh EMU. The PCU has overall responsibility for implementation of the MRMP II and
will ensure that the EMP is fully integrated into implementation of the project. The PCU will
ensure that sub-projects with potential adverse environmental impacts undergo environmental
screening and monitor their implementation of required mitigation measures. The PCU will
also work closely with the EEAA/NCS staff seconded to the PCU in carrying out their
training programs and other activities related to biodiversity conservation and protected area
management.
The EEAA/NCS staff seconded to the PCU will be responsible for
implementation of the activities related to protected areas management and biodiversity
conservation and will work closely with the PCU in carrying out these activities. The
EEAA/NCS will also manage the national and international consultants contracted to provide
training to the PCU, EEAA/NCS field staff, and EMU staff on integrated ecosystem
management issues.
The Matruh EMU will ensure that MRMP II sub-projects directed to it for review
are screened and approved in a timely manner under the EEAA EIA Guidelines. The EMU
will also manage the environmental experts contracted to support it in its environmental
responsibilities and ensure that they co-ordinate closely with the PCU and the EEAA/NCS
field staff.
B. PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Implementation of this EMP will begin with review and refinement of the
Environmental Guidelines Manual in the first quarter after project effectiveness. The PCU
then will undertake implementation of the main mitigation measures recommended and begin
the screening process for sub-projects, continuing these activities throughout the life of the
project.
Training programs will take place throughout the life of the project, on the basis
of identified needs, with scheduled training for PCU and EMU staff occurring early in project
implementation, followed by training programs in the local communities. Such training would
be revisited, updated, and delivered on an annual basis, as needed. EEAA/NCS staff will be
seconded full-time to the PCU for the life of the project, while the environmental experts
financed for the EMU will be part-time for the life of the project.
The monitoring program for environmental screening will run continuously for
the life of the project, while periodic monitoring will be used to evaluate the impacts of
mitigation measures and track baseline environmental conditions in the project area.
The proposed schedule for implementing the various components of the EMP is
shown in Table 1.
7



20/04/02
Table 1: EMP Implementation Schedule
Major EMP Activities       1"Q   2nQ  3rQ   4tQ   lstQ  2nQ  3rQ   4tQ   I'tQ  2"Q  3"Q   4'Q
'03   '03  '03   '03   '04   '04  '04   '04   '05   '05  '05   '05
Environmental Mitigation
Measures
-- Env Guidelines Manual
-- Main Mitigation Measures
--Environmental Screening ___
Training and Capacityorin
Program
-- Environmental Traening              _    __
--PCU management/staff__
-- Matruh EMU     mpc    .____
--Communities_
-- EEAA/NCS seconded staff  _     _    ____            _
EMU environment experts
Environrnental Monitoring
Program__                                                   ..
--Environmental Screening  _     _._
--Mitigation Measure Impacts I 
--Baseline Changes      lI                                                             . .
C. ESTIMATED IMPLEIMENTATION COSTS
The estimated costs of implementing the various components of this EMP are
displayed in Table 2. These costs are included in the total costs of the MRMP II and are
financed with funds from the World Bank/IFAD loan or from the GEF grant. No additional
costs are envisaged as a result of the EMP.
Table 2: Estimated Costs per EMP Component
EMP Activity (MRMP 11        Quantity   Unit Rate    Costs    in     US$       Source
Component)                           US$
Local   Foreign   Total
Consultants & Training (national/
international)
- community capacity building (A)  12 MM     300/MM      50,000  53,600    103,600  WB/IFAD
- watershed/rangeland management (B)                                               WB/IFAD
- biodiversity conservation (B)                                                       GEF
EEAA/NCS staff (3 nat) seconded to
PCU for 5 years (B)                180 MM    850/MM     153,000     0      153,000   GEF
Environmental experts (2 national) for
Matruh EMU for 5 years (part-time)  60 MM    2,000/MM   120,000     0      120,000   GEF
(B)
Vehicles (B)                          2       20.000              40,000   40,000     GEF
Office equipment (computers, printers,
etc.) (B)                           Lump      20,000              20,000   20,000     GEF
sum
TOTAL                                                    TBD      TB3D      TBD
WBI60S3
P \'UNITS\MNSRE\SO L[MAN\Egypt\EMP(June9) doc
8



20/04/02
June 12, 2002 11 59 AM
9



