Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25438-EGT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12.35 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.00 MILLION (US$5.17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 6, 2003
Water, Environment, Social and Rural Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 5, 2003 (Floating Exchange Rate))
Currency Unit = LE (Egyptian Pound)
LE 1.00 = US$0. 18
US$1.00 = LE 5.47
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB                       Annual Work Program and Budget
CAPs                       Community Action Plans
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD                        Community Driven Development
CDU                        Community Development Unit
CGIAR                      Consultative Group for Intemational Agricultural Research
EEAA                       Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EGM                        Environmental Guidelines Manual
EMP                        Environmental Management Plan
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GEF                        Global Environmental Facility
GNP                        Gross National Product
GOE                        Government of Egypt
EBRD                       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICARDA                     Intemational Center for Arid, Rangeland and Dryland Areas
ICB                        Intemational Competitive Bidding
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MALR                       Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MARC                       Matruh Adaptive Research Center
MRMP I                     First Matruh Resource Management Project
MRMP II                    Second Matruh Resource Management Project
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
NGOs                       Non-Govemmental Organizations
NWCZ                       Northwest Coastal Zone
O&M                        Operations and Maintenance
PBDAC                      Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PGMUs                      Pilot Grazing Management Units
QCBS                       Quality and Cost Based Selection
SRSCs                      Sub-Regional Support Centers
WFP                        World Food Program
WMA                        Watershed Management Association
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:   Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader:    Marie-Helene Collion



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                  Page
1. Project development objective                                                   3
2. Global objective                                                                3
3. Key performance indicators                                                      3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  18
3. Benefits and target population                                                 19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  24
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            24
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                 25
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                         25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       26
2. Financial                                                                      27
3. Technical                                                                      27
4. Institutional                                                                  28
5. Environmental                                                                  29
6. Social                                                                         31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                             35
8. Business Policies                                                              36
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                  36
2. Critical risks                                                                   37
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   39
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         39
2. Other                                                                            39
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       40
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      40
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       41
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      60
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 61
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             69
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 71
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  86
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                87
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               88
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         90
Annex I 1: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                  92
Annex 12: Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review                       102
Annex 13: Expected Biodiversity Conservation Benefits from the GEF-Funded Activities  108
Annex 14: Environmental Management Plan                                               110
Annex 15: Process Framework for Protected Areas                                       119
Annex 16: Socio-Economic Profile of Communities                                       125
Annex 17: Gender Issues and Development                                               151
Annex 18: Participatory Development and Community Capacity Building                   163
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 24577



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Water, Environment, Social and Rural Department
Date: February 6, 2003                           Team Leader: Marie-Helene Collion
Sector Director: Letitia A. Obeng                Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                (100%)
Project ID: P074075                              Theme(s): Rural services and infrastructure (P), Civic
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  engagement, participation and community driven
development (P), Gender (P), Indigenous peoples (P),
Social analysis and monitoring (P)
Global Supplemental ID: P077281                  Team Leader: Marie-Helene Collion
Sector Manager/Director: Petros Aklilu           Sector(s): General agriculture (100%), fishing and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  forestry sector (100%)
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                     Theme(s): Other rural development (P)
Supplement Fully Blended? No
ojFin  hIg.                    .- -.                       .     ,
P] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ I Grant    [I Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 12.35
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 3 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first four years;0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter                      Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[X7 Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ ]l Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [Xllnterest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:  Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing Plan (US$mL)::  Source                           Local -       Foreign        Total:
BORROWER                                                      9.49           0.88         10.36
IBRD                                                          8.96           3.39         12.35
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                             3.77           0.61         4.38
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL                          11.66           1.04         12.70
DEVELOPMENT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                   3.07           2.10         5.17
Total:                                                       36.95           8.02        44.97



Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND RECLAMATION
Address: Dokki, Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Contact Person: Dr. Hussein Soliman, National Coordinator and Technical Counselor, Matruh Resource Management
Project
Tel: 202-337-2198           Fax: 202-360-9399           Email: mrmp@internetalex.com
Other Agency(ies):
EGYPTLAN ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AGENCY
Address: P.O. Box 955, Maadi Post Office, Cairo, Egypt.
Contact Person: Prof. Dr. Mohamed Sayed Khalil, CEO, EEAA
Tel: 202-525-6450           Fax: 202-525-6454           Email: khalil@eeaa.gov.eg
Other Agencies: MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Address: Building of the International Project Center, P.O. Box 62, Marsa, Matruh, Egypt
Contact Person: Mr. Abdel Wahad El-Wateedy, Dr. Sobhi El Naggar, Mr. Ibrahim El-Mahdi
Tel: 20-46-493-1083/1802          Fax: 2046493-1082             Email: mrmp@internetalex.com
P074075 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSm):
FY         204        2005       2006      2007       2008      2009
Annual      2.10      2.74 3     2.43      2.10 ]     1.53       1.45
Cumulative     2.10       4.84 J    7.27       9.37     10.90      12.35
P077281 (GEF) Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY          2004      2005       2006      2007       2008      2009
Annual      1.10      1.18       1.26      0.71       0.59      0.33
Cumulative        1.10       2.28       3.54      4.25       4.84      5.17
Project implementation period: 6 years: 2004-2009
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2004 Expected closing date: 12/31/2009
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex l)
The overarching objective of the Matruh Resource Management Project II (MRMP II) is to improve the
livelihood of the more disadvantaged rural people living in the Northwest Coastal Zone thereby
contributing to poverty alleviation. This will be achieved through community development, building
their capacity to access services to improve their welfare and increase their incomes while at the same
time strengthening their capacity to conserve, rehabilitate and use their natural resources in a sustainable
manner.
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
Within this framework of integrated resource management, GEF support will address global
environmental concerns in the day-to-day management of resources and mainstream environmental
dimensions into overall planning and implementation of development activities with the objective of
comprehensive ecosystem management with a focus on biodiversity conservation, enhanced energy
efficiency and improved land and water management.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project impact, output and performance indicators have been developed to provide a baseline and targets
for project monitoring and evaluation. The overall Project impact will be measured in terms of both the
project's development objective and its global objective.
Indicators for the project's development objective of poverty reduction
a)     Change in household welfare attributable to the Project, as measured by improved access to
education, health, water supply and markets, and by proxies; such as type of housing, improved nutrition
and kitchen practices, more efficient use of energy, increased off-farm revenue-earning activities for
women, and increased revenue from marketed products.
Indicators for the proiect's global objective of integrated ecosystem management
a)     Formulation and adoption of appropriate policies and regulations to support the integrated
ecosystem management: as assessed by the rate of implementation of appropriate resource management
plans for the area, implemented with full community and stakeholder involvement;
b)     Reduction in adverse impacts of resource use on the biodiversity: as measured by improvement
in demographic status of key species and the richness and diversity of habitats;
c)     Reduction in wind and water erosion; and
d)     Reduction in net emissions of greenhouse gases: as measured by improved energy efficiency,
substitution of sustainable use of biomass and non-biomass for fossil energy and improved land
management practices
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22163     Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2001
- 3-



1.1.   Project linkage to CAS objectives.
The Egyptian Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is consistent with the country's development agenda,
which emphasizes poverty reduction. The alleviation of rural poverty in particular is cited in the CAS as
the most relevant target for the coming years.
"As 63% of the poor and 74% of the ultra poor in Egypt live in rural areas, increasing productivity of
agriculture remains an important prerequisite for increasing the incomes of the rural poor in a sustainable
manner. More effort needs to be made to develop new crop varieties and agricultural techniques and to
enhance small holder access to basic services, information, technology and extension. In addition,
increased emphasis on non-agricultural sources of rural employment and income from rural handicrafts
and industries will be needed for rural poverty alleviation."
To address rural poverty, a key focus of the Bank's assistance strategy is to assist the GOE in its efforts
to promote an export-oriented agricultural sector and provide gainful employment to an increasingly
large labor force, through developing rural infrastructure, promoting natural resource management and
enhancing local capacities. The present project addresses the issue of rural poverty alleviation through
commnunity-based rural development and natural resource management. The Project also seeks to
mainstream a concern for natural resources conservation into rural/community development investment
projects, through a fully-blended GEF component, in accordance with the stated CAS objective of
mainstreaming environment into sectorial development projects.
This assistance is also in line with the GOE's strategy to integrate women in development. Attention to
gender issues is part of the focus of the current GOE Five-Year Plan. The Government has requested
Bank support in mainstreaming gender concerns, which has been reflected in the CAS.
As requested by the GOE, the CAS lists in part D, the follow-on "Matruh Resource Management Project"
as part of the "Targeted interventions for poverty reduction" slated for FY2003.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The proposed Project complies with the GEF's Operational Strategy in the areas of biodiversity
conservation, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable use of water bodies, including
watersheds. It addresses the Operational Program (OP 12) "Integrated Ecosystem Management," which
provides a comprehensive and cross-sector approach to address many of the goals of global
environmental conventions, including the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (UNCBD),
the Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Convention to Combat
Desertification (UNCCD). Such an integrated approach allows for the adoption of comprehensive
management interventions that integrate ecological, economic and social goals to achieve both local and
global benefits. It addresses three of the identified program objectives of OP 12, as follows:
a.     Conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, as well as equitable sharing of benefits
arising from biodiversity use;
b.     Reduction of net emissions and increased storage of greenhouse gases in terrestrial ecosystems;
and
c.     Conservation and sustainable use of water bodies, including watersheds and coastal zones.
Egypt has ratified all the major international environmental conventions and agreements dealing with the
protection of natural habitats and related species, as well as addressing global climate change. The
Project is designed to support through its relevant outputs related to rangeland management and
-4 -



biodiversity conservation, many of the articles of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) such as:
Article 6 - General measures for conservation and sustainable use
Article 8 - In-situ conservation
Article 13 - Public education and awareness
The project will also promote sustainable forms of agriculture and land management in light of climate
change considerations, as well as contribute to improving the efficiency of use of biomass and
non-biomass energy sources for rural households in the project area. In addition, the Project will
continue with work initiated under Phase I for sustainable watershed development and range management
based on community ownership and participation.
In achieving these objectives, the Project will seek to establish institutional mechanisms to facilitate
integrated and cross-sector management practices between the local communities and relevant local and
national level Govemment authorities responsible for development planning in the region. The Project
will also liaise closely with the approved regional GEF/UNDP project "Conservation of Wetlands and
Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region" (MedWet) of which Egypt is one of six participating
countries. One conservation area in this MedWet project close to the current project area is situated
along the coast at the El Omayed Protectorate (70 km west of Alexandria). Lessons learnt from this and
other MedWet areas will be used by the project. The Project will also seek to collaborate with the
recently approved GEF/UNDP project on the "Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants in
Arid and Semi Arid Areas of Egypt." This will ensure that national level activities implemented by the
latter are utilized to support local level efforts with the Bedouin communities in the North West Coastal
Zone (NWCZ) area, where the utilization of medicinal and herbal plants is common for a variety of
purposes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Sector Issues
Agriculture contributed about 17% to GDP and 12% of the value of total exports in the 1990s, but
captured only 7% of total investments. Almost 60% of the industrial sector's income comes from
agricultural-based operations such as cotton spinning and weaving and food processing industries.
Agriculture provides food for about 65 million people living in the Delta and the Nile Valley.
Over the last two decades, Egypt's agricultural sector pioneered the economic reform process, with
substantial success achieved in price liberalization of inputs and outputs and the elimination of land-use
controls for most crops. During the 1990s, the focus was on increasing agricultural productivity of land
and water through more efficient use of these limited resources.  Thus, the performance of the
agricultural sector improved, from an average annual growth rate of 2.7% in the 1980s to 3.2% in the
1990s, and the food gap narrowed significantly. Notwithstanding this progress, much more needs to be
done to harness the full potential of this sector to increase agricultural production and rural incomes, and
alleviate poverty. In addition to rural poverty, already cited above, the following issues appear as the
most relevant for the coming years:
* Water scarcity. a prime challenge for the future of Egypt. The Nile is the country's life-sustaining
water resource. It provides about 95% of Egypt's water requirements and 90% of water supplies for
its irrigated agriculture. Rainfed agriculture occupies a very small percentage of agricultural land, -
only 4 percent. Per capita water availability has already dropped below the scarcity level of 1,000m'
per capita/year and below the regional average (950 to 1,200 mr/c/year). It is expected to fall to 670
m 3/c/year by 2017. The Project area depends entirely on rainfed agriculture and water availability is
- 5 -



well below the average. Thus, managing the scarce water supply is critical.
* Land and water degradation. Annual loss of land due to urban encroachment is estimated to be
between 15,000 and 30,000 feddan per year (1 feddan= 0.42 ha). As to land degradation, its major
causes are poor irrigation drainage, soil salinization, inadequate crop rotation and soil erosion. In
addition, water quality is deteriorating because of salinity and increased concentrations of municipal
and industrial pollution loads entering the water bodies, particularly in the downstream reaches of
irrigation and drainage canals. In the Project, the coastal zone area is relatively little developed, but
vacation villages are being built and more are planned. It will be a challenge to ensure that
unregulated development does not occur, especially on sites of ecological importance. Where
development occurs, a proper environmental assessment should be undertaken before plans are
approved and once approved environmental directives must be enforced.
*   Below-potential development of agricultural exports. Revenues from agricultural exports, excluding
cotton, have remained low and volatile during the 1990s, owing to the incomplete liberalization of
prices and marketing mechanisms for some products. Other reasons, especially for the horticulture
sub-sector, identified as the most promising sub-sector for exports, are import barriers in major
potential markets, poor quality control and the lack of reliable supporting infrastructure and other
services to allow private sector competitive involvement. The Project area grows figs and olives and
has some potential to develop medicinal/herbal products.
Thus, rural development is dominated by the critical need to manage scarce arable land and water
resources more efficiently and sustainably, in order to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population
while maintaining biodiversity. Further scope for agricultural growth and exports is contingent upon
deepening the policy and institutional reforms successfully undertaken in the 1990s, being mindful of the
government's environmental policy and strategy.
2.2 Government's strategy
The relevant elements of the GOE's agricultural strategy, as expressed in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reclamation (MALR) "Strategyfor Agriculture Development until year 2017" are as follows:
*   The maintenance and development of the natural resource base through a more efficient allocation
and use of soil and water resources, including strict checking of encroachment of urban activities on
agricultural land and rationalizing water use in the major water-consuming crops: wheat, rice, maize,
cotton and sugarcane. Soil reclamation and soil amelioration will be given priority to overcome the
problems of soil salinity and water logging.
* As part of the strategy to safeguard agricultural land against desertification, green belts, hedges and
shelterbelts will be encouraged.
*   Agricultural exports will be promoted, based on quality assurance and product safety, removing
obstacles to private sector development and improving rural infrastructure.
*   The role of rural women in development will be promoted through literacy programs and the
enhancement of women-led small and micro-enterprises to increase women's access to economic
opportunities in the livestock, indigenous resources (e.g. medicinal/herbal plants), marketing and
processing sub-sectors.
In the environmental sector, Law 102 of 1983 provides the legal framework for the declaration and
- 6 -



management of protected areas and regulates the conservation of natural resources. Since the first
Protected Area was established in 1983 at Ras Mohammed, 23 Protected Areas, covering over 90,000
km2 have been established EEAA 2002). The EEAA has full executive authority over the management
of the Protected Areas (Baha El Din 1998). A National Study on Biological Diversity was completed in
1996, followed by the release of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) in 1998.
The principal strategic goal is the proper management and protection of natural resources and
biodiversity. Capacity building, improving awareness, and strengthening the private sector, NGOs, and
research institutes involved with the Project are all part of the strategy and action plan. Based on this
strategy, the Nature Conservation Sector of EEAA has undertaken an assessment of new potential
protected areas according to established global and national criteria (Baha El Din, 1998), four of which
fall within the MRMP Project zone.
Law 4 of 1994 'Promulgating the Environment Law' defined the scope and responsibilities of the EEAA
and established an environmental protection fund. Articles 17 to 23 require environmental impact
assessments prior to development. The law also forbids hunting and habitat destruction of specified
types of wild birds and animals as well as protection of air, land and water from various types of
pollution. Following a three-year grace period, monitoring and enforcement of the law is being
undertaken by an inspection unit within EEAA in cooperation with the relevant competent authorities.
In addition to the national laws, Egypt is also party to several international conventions and agreements.
Conventions that Egypt has signed with implications for biodiversity are the African Convention on
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (Algiers 1968); Convention on Wetlands of International
Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar 1971); Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) (Washington, D.C. 1973); Convention of the
Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animal (CMS)(Bonn 1983); Convention on Biological
Diversity (Rio 1992); particularly Protected Area Protocol of the Barcelona Agreement; and the
African-Eurasian Migratory Water Bird Agreement (AEWA) (The Hague 1995).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    Sector issues
Backnround. The Project area is situated in the North West Coastal Zone (NWCZ), a rainfed area, which
extends about 500 km from El-Saloum in the West, on the border with Libya, to Alexandria in the East.
It is bound by the Mediterranean Sea on the North and the Sahara Desert, about 60 km. to the South. The
natural habitat is dry to very dry rangeland, with an annual rainfall ranging from about 140 mm in the NE
to about 20 mm in the SE.
The Project area itself runs easterly along the coast from the border with Libya for about 320 km. and
inland from the coast for about 44 km. By mid-2002, it is anticipated that the population will reach
230,000 (30,000 households), a 40,000 increase since 1992, although there is some uncertainty with these
figures as the Bedouin move between Egypt and Libya and some people have migrated to Cairo and other
urban areas. Small areas along the coast, especially in the SE are being developed as tourist villages.
The area is inhabited by Bedouin people (85% of the population), living off of an extensive dryland
production system of sheep/goat-barley-tree (fruit) crops. Four agro-ecological zones are distinguished
in the project area. (i) a narrow coastal strip, about 5 km inland, which has good alluvial soils and
horticulture is the main farming activity, with livestock and barley; (ii) a mixed production strip, 5-15 km
inland, of lower rainfall and soil quality, and a mixed small ruminants-barley FS prevails with orchards
grown in the wadis; (iii) a rangeland strip, 15-50 km inland, of semi-nomadic population, largely used for
- 7 -



small ruminants grazing, with scattered barley cultivation in land depressions; and (iv) an open-range
area lies beyond 50-km inland, where a nomadic population are living on animal production, mainly
camels. Tourist villages provide seasonal work for some of the young Bedouin.
The Project area differs from most other parts of Egypt in that the traditional tribal structure is still very
much alive and a strong force for the integration of society. Customary laws still apply for local
administration, adjudication and common issues. There are 40 tribes (qabila) made up of clans (aila),
which are patri-lineages of 5-7 generations: these are further divided into extended households or
lineages (bayt) of 34 generations. Leaders are designated at each tribal level, forming a customary law
council (majlis' urfi). The tribal hierarchical social structure, traditions and customary laws (ur)
organize the Bedouin community life.  Pronounced solidarity is maintained with recognized
responsibility at each hierarchical level. Though the State does not formally recognize the urf, it allows
the Bedouins to resolve conflicts through the urf praised as a highly effective social system for conflict
resolution and dispute settlement.
The rangeland is allocated for usufruct between tribes, clans and lineages, except in the southern part
where communal rangeland still exists. The Egyptian law does not consider tribal ownership of land.
All desert land or "undeveloped land" is considered as state property. However, the GOE informally
recognizes the usufruct of land (wad' yad, meaning 'placing the hand'), except in the case of the
Ministry of Defense, which has taken over some land for strategic purposes without provision for
involuntary resettlement.
Most of the population lives in scattered settlements. The decrease in nomadic lifestyle that occurred in
the last few decades in the NWCZ has transformed traditional, ecologically balanced, pastoral systems to
potentially unsustainable sedentary agriculture. This transformation has increased human and animal
pressures on the fragile resource base and ecosystems of the arid environment, creating a cycle of
resource degradation and human poverty, threatening biodiversity, and accelerating environmental
deterioration.  In addition, the Bedouin people have limited experience in sustainable resource
management in a sedentary environment and thus have limited coping strategies. This transition has
occurred more rapidly in the Eastern parts closer to Alexandria and in the Northern strip adjacent to the
Mediterranean Sea. Poverty is also accentuated by limited government services, particularly for health
and education, and the lack of economic opportunities other than agriculture. These issues are reviewed
below.
Issue # 1.   Management of scarce land and water resources. Human settlements and land use are
entirely dependent on rainfall and on various forms on water harvesting. Annual rainfall, restricted to the
winter months and to a narrow 20 km strip along the coast, averages between 140 mm in the West to 75
mm in the East. Rainfall tapers off very rapidly with distance from the coast. Rainfall patterns are
extremely erratic, with high fluctuations spatially as well as within and between years. Productive or
potentially productive areas in terms of runoff accumulation and soils are concentrated within a small
number of wadis and depressions, mainly along the Coast. There are 218 wadis with their watersheds or
sub-watersheds in the targeted area. One of the main issues is to increase the efficiency of runoff water
use for human and animal consumption and cultivation, and to minimize soil erosion. To improve run-off
efficiency necessitates constructing water harvesting structures; cisterns, and dykes. Water stored in
cisterns is mainly used for domestic and livestock, and partly for summer irrigation of trees. Dykes are
exclusively used for spreadsheet irrigation. Generally, a hard layer underlies the soils, determining soil
depth. This layer has a useful function in the water harvesting system by hindering water loss through
deep percolation. Groundwater potential is limited, and of low productivity and poor quality.
Issue # 2.   Degradation of ranzeland and vegetative cover. Historically, the NWCZ of Egypt has
- 8 -



been quite rich in natural habitats and biodiversity.  Plant biodiversity includes a multitude of
domesticated (indigenous or exotic) agricultural germplasms, and wild plant species. The vegetative
cover has been exposed to a severe degradation process as a result of erratic rainfall patterns and wind
erosion, combined with demographic pressure and the settlement process. This process occurred without
technical support to devise schemes to adapt the semi-nomadic traditional production systems to a
sedentary lifestyle. This led to unsustainable land-use practices in these fragile eco-systems, expansion
of barley cultivation into marginal land, excessive firewood gathering and over-exploitation of the
rangeland. Uncontrolled tourist development along the coast is also taking its toll with arable land lost to
tourist villages and quarrying, unregulated use of off-road vehicles which has disturbed topsoil, and
spoiled valuable scenic and pristine landscapes.
Natural resource degradation has been reflected in reduced bio-diversity, endangered species and
declining availability of pastures for herds. The traditional extensive livestock production system has
been transformed to a semi-intensive system, with over 50% of the feed requirements supplied by
concentrates. Based on published information and field observations, the species that merit the highest
priority for conservation action are as followsAllium mareoticum, Ebenus arm itageei, Echinops
taeckholmianus, Helianthemum sphaerocalyx, Zillia baiparmata.
The problem of identifying range management systems that would be sustainable, socially acceptable and
economically sound remains an important part of the agenda.
Issue # 3.    Crop and livestock production svstems. With so limited rainfall, extensive sheep/barley
based farming system is dominant with tree crop production and patches of intensive vegetable
production in areas where runoff water can be stored. Production strategies are characterized by
flexibility and diversity to take into account precipitation variability: enterprise/activity diversity within
households as well as spatial diversity in resource use. New or improved technologies, adapted to the
agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions, are required to increase the efficiency of extensive
production systems that are no longer appropriate, given the demographic pressure and the settlement
process. A number of constraints have been identified as follows:
Crop production: low yields of local cultivars; insufficient seed supply; limited options for crop
diversification; improper crop management practices; post-harvest handling and processing problems;
marketing difficulties.
Animal production: inbreeding of stock; pursuit of quantity rather than quality; disequilibrium between
natural feed resources and animal population.
-9-



Issue # 4.   Marketing and agro-processing. For the current level of development, marketing has not
been a major problem except for figs. However, if agriculture and off-farm income generating activities
are going to become a source of increased income, marketing and agro-processing will be a major
concern. New, market-driven, products (such as medicinal plants) will have to be identified, as well as
new/increased outlets for traditional products. These include: major cities (Alexandria and Cairo),
increased local market demand to cater for tourism at certain periods of the year (May to September) and
the Arab Gulf countries, especially for livestock. For figs, agro-processing (drying) will become
necessary to absorb any increased production. Improved quality and quality control, appropriate
packaging and handling will be important concerns if producers are to obtain higher prices. For
marketing purposes, producers should organize themselves as a bargaining unit so as to be in a better
position to negotiate with traders and wholesalers. The present cooperative system, which developed
around government subsidies, now suppressed, may no longer be dynamic enough. Other types of
producer organizations may have to be encouraged. Accurate and timely marketing information will also
become crucial. Thus, information and communication technology will play an increasing role.
Issue # I.    Off-farm activities. Though there is certainly scope to increase agricultural production
and marketing, agriculture alone will be insufficient to provide substantial increase in income to most of
the rural people in the NWCZ, especially as the population is increasing at about 2% per-year. The first
project provided support to rug weaving and handicraft production by women. However, these activities
suffer from insufficient support for marketing. Capacity building, including the provision of market
intelligence related to quality and more effective communication systems should be emphasized to enable
rural people, especially women to take advantage of existing off-farm income generating activities. The
production of medicinal and herbal plants is a possibility that fequires supply surveys of such plants and
market research.
Issue # 6.   Rural roads. There is a lack of surfaced roads, except along the coast. This curtails the
supply of goods and services, increases their costs and leads to haphazard development of dirt roads and
tracks (mainly for donkey cart transport). For some of the N-S roads that have been constructed, sand
drifts are common in parts. Of some concern is the use of off-road four-wheel drive vehicles for hunting
purposes. This is having an adverse effect upon the landscape and placing some fauna under severe
pressure. The proposed Project will contribute to paving dirt roads of particular importance given the
number of population they serve.
Issue #7.    Lack of cross-sectoral coordination for planning and resource management. Regional
development plans are elaborated by central planning authorities without much feedback from the local
level or the target communities. In particular, plans are devised by combining sectoral projections and
needs with a lack of coordination among the different sectors, often resulting in low attention to
environmental sustainability or social equity. The Project will aim at strengthening capacities at the local
level for integrated ecosystem management and the building of public/community/private sector
partnerships for the planning and implementation of local development plans for the area.
Issue # 8.   Availabilitv of services and gender issues. In the remote areas of the NWCZ, access to
education and training and health services is a major problem, especially for women and girls. Whether
government services can extend their operations to these remote and low-population density places in the
medium-term is a moot point. This is where the Project may be of some assistance by supplying informal
education and training including environmental training. For the long term, the Project will have
promoted a culture of participatory service delivery amongst government services in the Governorate
(education, health) along with self-help principles on the part of the communities.
Issue # 9.   Access to rural micro-finance. There are two commercial banks operating in the NWCZ:
- 10 -



PBDAC and the National Bank, both with offices only in Marsa Matruh, the main city. It may not be
viable for them to open branch offices: the volume of operations that they would have, given the
estimated potential demand for rural credit, is too low to enable them to cover their fixed costs. As a
result, rural people have little access to modem rural finance, except in the close vicinity of Marsa
Matruh. There is no NGO or any other form of micro-finance institution that could perform the function
of micro-finance institution. Credit needs however are important and covered by moneylenders or
retailers at an hidden lending rate that varies between 60 and 200 % a year. All of them provide credit in
kind. The proposed Project will take on a micro-finance approach to rural lending, as a pilot operation,
offering credit under terms and conditions that can take into account the specificities of the target rural
population.
3.2    Government strategy under MRMP I and the project's achievements
The GOE began to address the above issues under the current Matruh Resource Management Project
(MRMP 1) with IDA funding, focusing on natural resource management, agricultural development and
community development. The innovative aspect of the existing project has been its participatory
approach, which combines technical innovations and the socio-economic and institutional development
needs of the Local Communities. Local communities have elected representatives and prepared
Community Action Plans (CAPs) for implementing resource management and economic and social
activities.
MRMP I made considerable progress in addressing the shortage of water through its water harvesting and
watershed management component. It helped the local communities construct underground cisterns and
reservoirs and rehabilitate some cisterns that date back to the Roman times. A total of 7,000 cisterns and
310 reservoirs have been constructed or rehabilitated, representing over 1.1 million m3, - four times the
target at appraisal, thus increasing water availability to participating communities by more than 45%
There are also 218 wadis in the region running from South to North. Sixty-four wadis have been selected
for watershed development, based on dike construction to retain both water and arable soil, enabling the
cultivation of 4,000 feddan. The local communities have expressed a strong interest in this component.
Watershed management and water harvesting investments are still likely to be the most demanded
intervention under the follow-on project.
The range adaptive research and technology transfer program of the on-going project was aimed at
rehabilitating rangelands to reduce the feed gap. The program yielded a number of adaptable research
results that were extended to herders. It helped the local communities establish fodder trees and shrubs
on 12,000 feddan, over-seeded 2,000 feddan of rangeland and establish 250 range management units.
New stock was introduced and the swapping of rams and billy goats for breeding purposes was
encouraged.
The present Project has put valuable emphasis on adaptive research and extension for crop and livestock
production improvement, with the construction and staffing of the Matruh Adaptive Research Center
(MARC) and the five sub-regional support centers for extension. A farming system approach guided the
technology generation and transfer program: a number of technologies have been tested, adapted and
extended. The packages that have been developed enabled to increase productivity on farmers'
demonstration plots, as follows: barley 70%, olive & fig 60%, vegetables: 27%. The issue is to extend
these technologies to many more farmers, after having tested and adapted them to different
agro-ecological and socio-economic contexts.
As far as access to services is concerned, the alternative to establishing sustainable government services
for these areas, at least as a transition strategy, was for the project to provide these services with its own
- 1 1 -



resources. Thus, the Project helped the local communities link with other government services to provide
literacy classes for women and girls and extension workshops to increase nutrition and health awareness.
Finally, the Project also tackled the issue of access to credit. Credit was to be made available on a pilot
basis, through locally-established banks, the PBDAC and the National Bank of Egypt, with the PBDAC
playing a prominent role. Prolonged negotiations between the Project and these institutions did not lead
to any agreement on terms and conditions for loans, nor on mechanisms for credit delivery. In addition
to the fact that opening branches outside the main city may not have been a viable operation, there were
at least five other difficulties:
(i)    the need for a guarantee/collateral, difficult to arrange in the project area;
(ii)  the risk associated with repayment of agricultural loans under recurrent drought conditions;
(iii)  the interest rates charged by commercial banks for urban and industrial undertakings were too
high (13 to 15%), especially in the presence of alternative soft loans and grant funding available for the
same target groups under the Social Fund for Development and the "Shuruq" Fund (between 7 and 9%);
(iv)   the strong religious Bedouin convictions, against paying interest; and
(v)    the geographical dispersion and remoteness of the communities.
Another tentative to establish credit mechanisms through the Central Agricultural Cooperative was
equally unsuccessful.
Since institutionalizing micro-finance through commercial banks failed, the first project established a
small revolving fund, which provided seed money, in particular for women, for income-generating
activities, such as poultry rearing, nursery establishment, as well as incentives for environmental
protection (purchase of gas ovens). The recovery rate achieved for this credit without interest is 98%. It
was well managed financially at the time of the second in-depth project review (November 2000).
3.3   Strategic choices
The first project set out to break the cycle of natural resource degradation and poverty,. The overarching
objective of the follow-on Project will be rural poverty reduction through sustainable community-driven
development. MRMP I achieved considerable success in pioneering the participatory approach in the
challenging environment of a traditional (male dominated) tribal social system and in gaining the trust
and confidence of the Bedouin people. MRMP II will build upon the successes of the first project, to
further the participatory process and empower local communities to achieve sustainable development.
This entails greater responsibility and authority being passed to local communities that have been
prepared, trained and given the requisite guidance for such responsibilities.
Thus, the follow-on Project will move towards a community-driven development (CDD) approach,
tailored to fit the socio-economic conditions of the communities.  The CDD approach will be
implemented incrementally. Gradually, it will require a greater involvement by local communities in
decision making regarding resource allocation, as well as their involvement in implementing, monitoring
and evaluating all project activities.
The GEF-funded activities will give an increased and much needed emphasis to environmental
conservation. They will be fully integrated within the MRMP II as a blended Project and under the
technical responsibility of the Nature Conservation Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency, as well as the Matruh Govemorate.
- 12-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed MRMP II will comprise the following six components to be implemented over a six-year
period from 2003 to 2008.
A.     Community Development
Al. Capacity Building of Communities
A2. Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity
B.     Integrated Natural Resource Management
B 1. Water Harvesting and Watershed Management
B2. Range Management
B3. Biodiversity Conservation and Environmental Management Plan Implementation
C.     Productive Activities Development
Cl. Agricultural and Livestock Services
C2. Off-farm Productive Activities
D.     Rural Roads
E      Revolving Fund/ Rural Micro-finance
F.     Project Management
A summary of the various components is given below.
Component A.        Community Development (US 8.2 million)
Al. Capacity building of communities. The objective of this sub-component is to further the
participatory approach initiated under MRMP I. To achieve this objective the Project will provide
support to local community representatives (mandoubeen) at the level of the clan (aila) for the design of
Community Action Plans (CAPs), including: (i) an initial training focusing on the roles and
responsibilities of the mandoubeen; (ii) the criteria and processes for identifying disadvantaged
households; and, (iii) the process for establishing development priorities and prioritizing resource
allocation. Following the initial training, further training and facilitation will be provided for the local
communities to:
(i)    acquire negotiating skills and management capacities of their community affairs;
(ii)   understand the basic concepts of biodiversity conservation, and environmental
assessment;
(iii)  set in place the process for monitoring the implementation of their activities and evaluate
the results; and
(iv)   become legally recognized, upon their request.
- 13 -



The representation of the local communities will also be facilitated at higher levels, i.e., at the
Sub-regional Support Center levels and Project headquarters level for participation in the
decision-making processes regarding Project resource allocation. It will also provide improved access to
information and communication facilities within the communities. This component will also support
local community initiatives, not foreseen at the time of Project preparation.
Al. Strengthening of women's development capacity. The Project will promote a two-pronged
approach to strengthening women's development capacity by:
(i)    ensuring that women take part in the overall participatory planning process (albeit
through separate meetings) and that they have the same access to information as men, to
allow them to influence processes through their infornal channels.
(ii)   soliciting their views on such aspects as: a) the criteria for defining the disadvantaged
households, b) the-selection of beneficiary households, and c) the allocation of resources
for different activities, particularly communal facilities, whilst also separately addressing
the special needs and interests of women.
The Project will support the construction of basic two-room social centers, with community contribution
and community involvement in management, in order to provide a venue for literacy classes, training
programs, environmental awareness and other community activities. Literacy classes for women and
primary education programs for girls will be conducted in collaboration with the Education Department.
The Project will assist women to reduce work load for domestic chores through access to labor saving
assets such as hand pumps, ovens and carts for transport under shared financial arrangements (partly
project finranced, partly women's own contribution). The Project will support the construction of latrines
and nutrition, hygiene and health sensitization programs, through enlisting the support of the Health
Department. With GEF funding, the Project will also promote environmental awareness programs
through formal and informal environmental education in schools and at the community centers. Also
with (TiF funding, affordable alternative energy sources for cooking, particularly renewable sources, will
be demonstrated in selected communities and introduced through partial financing to promote
wider-scale use to enhance conservation of biomass.
Component B.        Intearated Natural Resource Manaaement (US$ 21.1 million)
B1. Water harvesting and watershed management. The key issue of lack of water will be addressed
through a major program for water harvesting and storage and watershed management. Implementation
will be carried out using the proven successful water harvesting and storage techniques and infrastructure
(underground cisterns/reservoirs and various types of dikes for water and soil' retention in the wadis)
integrated within an overall strategy of watershed management. Watershed management may require the
involvement of several communities having rights over the same watershed, to assist in the designing and
implementation of sustainable watershed management plans taking into consideration the different land
use systems, the communities' diverse needs for water, and reducing, or eliminating potential conflicts
amongst users. Protection of the upper catchment areas will continue to be promoted with GEF
contribution, through micro-catchment water harvesting measures, shelterbelts against wind erosion and
re-seeding of range areas. GEF funds will also support adaptive research to establish water run-off
coefficients and to investigate improved water harvesting techniques.
- 14 -



B2. Range management. The objective of this sub-component is to develop a strategy for the sustained
use of the communal resources, based on a community-managed rangeland rehabilitation and utilization.
Such an approach, based on the establishment of Pilot Grazing Management Units (PGMUs), will aim at
managing the vegetation together with the animals. The underlying principle is to simulate the large herd
movements of the past by dividing the land under management into several plots which animals graze
one after the other, providing the plants enough time to recover. All features of such schemes (size,
number of participants, grazing calendar, etc.) are left to the decision of the herders' group, according to
the state of degradation of their land, social constraints, and their experience and managerial ability.
With GEF funding, biodiversity concepts will be introduced into range management activities. GEF will
finance adaptive research and extension on assessing/monitoring the rangeland resources, germ plasm
resource enhancement; evaluation of rangeland restoration technologies; and, advice to producers on the
best use of planted fodder shrubs. Research will help establish optimal length of time that major
rangeland plants require for their regeneration under different climatic conditions. This data is essential
for grazing management planning. Four Protected Plots will be established to provide in situ source of
germ plasm of desirable perennial range species which have little opportunity to produce seed under
present grazing conditions.
B3. Biodiversity Conservation and EMP Implementation. This sub-component will be entirely funded
by GEF grant. It represents an enhanced focus on biodiversity conservation and integrated environmental
management from the previous project. It will be implemented through an integration of some of its
activities with the other components:
*   Integrating environmental education and awareness into community capacity building activities and
introducing alternative fuel sources (Component A);
* Integrating ecosystem conservation concepts into range and water management activities with the
communities (sub-component B. 1 and B.2); and
* Supporting sustainable income-generating activities to reduce resource over-exploitation (Component
C).
In addition to the above activities, specific activities targeting biodiversity conservation will be
implemented. The Project will monitor and update the records on the status of biodiversity in the area,
develop strategies for enhancing eco-tourism based on community involvement and conservation
concepts and strengthen local level capacity for environmental monitoring and planning. This will be
done through the funding of additional staff and equipment and the provision of training on
environmental matters, including:  resource inventory and evaluation; environmental assessment,
multi-disciplinary resource management, socio-economic surveying; integrated land use planning, and
species monitoring and evaluation. It will support the creation of community managed biodiversity
conservation areas; and participatory training on specific environmental issues.
The Project will assist the GOE in the establishment and initial management of two Protected Areas
(PAs) in the NWCZ (El Qasr and Saloum). Local populations will take part in the elaboration of the
Protected Area development plans and their management. The plans will include activities promoting
biodiversity conservation and rangeland management. In addition, alternative income generating
activities will be promoted in case of any loss or restriction of access to resources for the local
commiuinities following the establishment of the Protected Areas. These can include off-farm income
generating activities and payment for targeted community conservation mechanisms for potentially
affected beneficiaries, to be funded through Local Community grants. Visitors centers will be
constructed for public education programs and staff recruited to manage the Protected Areas.
- 15 -



Finally, the sub-component will implement the Environmental Management Plan. The EMP identifies
the environmental mitigation measures, screening process, capacity-building and monitoring activities
that will be undertaken during Project implementation to ensure that any potential adverse environmental
impacts are either eliminated or minimized.
Component C.       Productive Activities Development (US$ 5.0 million)
Cl. Agricultural and livestock services. The principal focus of the sub-component is the dissemination
of those technologies already developed under MRMP I that offer the best promise of improvement of
existing farming systems at minimal cost and risk. There will be more farmer involvement and a new
community-based extension outreach effort through the training of Community Technical Contact
Persons (wakil/wukala), one per Local Community. These facilitators, chosen by community members,
will serve as resource persons to handle the most common farming advisory demands and liaise with
their Sub-Regional Support Center for technical support.
Extension will be accompanied by a tailoring of the adaptive research program to meet farmer needs
through contractual arrangements with the Matruh Adaptive Research Center. The agronomic research
will be complemented by farm financial and economic evaluation of adaptive research findings:
*   For livestock production, the approach will focus on lessening the dependence on concentrates, better
use of crop by-products, more value added to animal products at the farm level e.g., through fattening
and ensuring the sustainability of the rangeland. Livestock productivity interventions will include
extending the ram exchange and goat genetic improvement program. Improvements in animal
nutrition will be promoted through the demonstration of feed blocks, urea treated straw and mineral
blocks.  Work in collaboration with the Strengthening of Women's development capacities
sub-component will focus on improved husbandry practices for poultry, pigeon and turkeys.
*   For crop production, the emphasis will be on barley and associated crops such as vetch, focusing on
the testing of new varieties, improved systems of cultivation and of water supplementation, and
inter-planted fodder shrubs in alley cropping systems.
*   For tree crops and horticulture. the emphasis will be on figs, olives and watermelons focusing on
improved husbandry practices, quality control and market grading measures, and the testing of dried
fig varieties and higher olive oil content cultivars. In addition, new work on medicinal and aromatic
plant domestication and culture will be supported through the GEF contribution.
C2. Off-farm Productive Activities. The objective of this sub-component is to increase and diversify
rural household income through the development of: (a) household or cottage agro-processing
(production of shelled almonds, dried figs and pickled olives); and (b) traditional Bedouin handicrafts.
The component will be market driven, building upon Bedouin resources, skills and organization, and
taking into account women socio-economic environment and their life-style priorities. It will focus on:
*   providing access to market information (quality, prices, market locations, transportation, and
conditions of market entry);
*   improving the quality of products to respond to a market demand as well as to create new market
niches (building upon a "Matruh" label, to be promoted);
*   facilitate provision of inputs for producers;
*   ensure the regular sale of the end products;
*   promote and train local community-based organizations that will be able to manage the operation
when the break-even point will be reached. These community-based organizations will be gender
- 16 -



specific (i.e. women organizations for specific women activities); and
*   ensure that the promoted activities are environmentally sustainable, through integration into the
overall area development plans and respective sub-project environmental reviews.
These functions will be ensured by community marketing professionals with the aim to develop an
economically sound and sustainable production and marketing operation that should reach a break-even
point within three or four years. These professionals will be responsible for: (a) the recruitment and
training of local people who will participate in the operation (quality control), (b) the management of the
operation until the break-even point is reached and the operation handed over to local community-based
organization(s); and (c) technical assistance to these organization(s), declining in intensity over time, to
help them run the operation.
GEF contribution under this sub-component will be geared towards provision of technical assistance to
investigate those activities that have global environmental benefits and ensure environmental
sustainability. These include supply surveys and market investigation for medicinal and herbal plants,
based on the domestication of wild indigenous species, drawing from the experience of the GEF
"Medicinal Plants" project at St. Katherine's Protectorate in Sinai.
Component D.        Rural Roads (US$ 4.0 million)
The Project will surface unpaved feeder roads (for a total of about 135 kmn.). Six dirt roads have already
been identified as part of an overall program of 300 km of feeder roads, 200 km of which have been
implemented with the World Food Program. It will also give advice on the alignment of new roads and
their protection against erosion (use of techniques to bind the soil and prevent drifting). As under the
World Food Program, the communities will participate in road construction through the gathering and
stockpiling of stones along the side of the road, for the contractor to use. The purpose is to provide the
communities with an additional source of income and build a sense of ownership for later maintenance.
The local communities will be trained for basic and simple maintenance. The roads will be handed over
to the Road Works Department after completion.
Component E.       Revolvine Fund/Rural Micro-Finance (US$ 3.6 million)
The present project has been managing a small revolving fund. For sustainability, the MALR agreed that
an independent pilot micro-finance scheme should be tested with mobile credit retailers initially based in
the Sub-Regional Support Centers, and local traders, to deliver credit in kind. The Project will provide:
* a revolving fund to initiate the lending process; and,
* funding to support training and establishment of professional credit retailers in the Project area.
- 17 -



Component F.        Proiect Manaeement (US$ 2.9 million).
The Project will fund the necessary equipment, vehicles, staff development, technical assistance and
monitoring and evaluation system for efficient and effective management of the Project. A line item in
the budget will be used to explore the scope and feasibility for extending the participatory approach to
other areas in the Govemorate (Siwa) or other rainfed areas in Egypt through commissioning special
studies and assessment visits to these areas by key Project staff for interaction with the local government,
communities, etc.
_dctve            Bank            GEF      %
Component                          Coms     % of financing  % of  flnancing  GEF
(U .M)   Total  (USSM)   Total  (US1M)  financing
A. Community Development                      8.21   18.3     3.60   29.1     0.39     7.5
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management     21.05  46.8     1.07    8.7     4.02    77.8
C. Productive Activities Development          4.95   11.0     2.14   17.3     0.76    14.7
D. Rural Roads                                4.04    9.0     3.00   24.3     0.00     0.0
E. Rural Micro-Finance                        3.63    8.1     1.65   13.4     0.00     0.0
F. Project Management                         2.94    6.5     0.76    6.2     0.00     0.0
Global Components
0.00    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.00
Total Project Costs  44.82  99.7    12.22   98.9     5.17   100.0
Front-end fee    0.13   0.3     0.13    1.1     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required  44.95  100.0   12.35  100.0     5.17   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Working towards community-driven development. The activities of the on-going project have been
essentially designed and implemented by the Project Coordination Unit, with some participation from the
local communities. With the help of the Project, the local communities will take charge of the planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the activities. In particular, they will prepare their
Community Action Plan (CAP), outlining the general framework for the activities to be carried out in
their local community over the life of the Project. For the execution of the CAP, the local communities
will prepare an Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB). The activities included in an AWPB will be
funded through a Local Community Grant. Each local community will be aware of the annual funding
available for activities in their community. However, the PCU will still be responsible for activity
implementation. For the long-run, the objective is to strengthen local community capacity in order to
transfer progressively some of the implementation to them. In order to achieve that objective, the Project
will support the registration of local communities, so that they will become legally recognized entities.
Mainstreaming access to social services (health and education). Some major breakthroughs have been
accomplished under the on-going project in particular with regard to women and girls' functional literacy
and numeracy, thanks to the community development approach taken by the project. The Govemorate
Health and Education services will be more closely associated during the Second Project. These services
will be represented on the Project Coordination Committee. The Project will provide them with financial
resources to allow their staff to work under the Project. Ways to mainstream these activities into the
Health and Education services once the Project ends will be investigated under the course of Project
implementation. With GEF funded activities, environmental education will be incorporated into the
formal and informal education system.
Access to credit. An innovative rural micro-finance scheme will be introduced as a pilot. The scheme
- 18 -



will involve as partners a technical assistance company supervising professional credit retailers.
Institutional sustainabilitv for the Matruh Adaptive Research Center (MARC). Created under the present
project, MARC should now be institutionalized under an existing research institute. Three possibilities
are being investigated, namely, the Agricultural Research Center, the Desert Research Center or
ICARDA, the International Center for Arid, Rangeland and Dryland Areas. The first has the mandate for
research and extension in Egypt. The second has been created with the specific mandate for desert and
arid areas, covering the North Coast. The third possibility is an international research center, member of
the CGIAR (Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research), with headquarters in Aleppo
and which may be interested in having an outreach center. Thus, the Project will no longer finance
MARC operating costs directly. MARC research teams will be working under contractual arrangements
on specific research themes, identified with local communities.
Mainstreaming some of the PCU functions. The on-going Project is being implemented by a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), operating separately from the MALR services in Matruh and specifically set
up for the purpose of Project management. The PCU staff are MALR employees on secondment. The
sub-regional support centers, under the PCU, are also staffed with seconded MALR employees. During
the course of MRMP II implementation, the future of the PCU functions will have to be discussed taking
into consideration the need for continuity while recognizing that the nature and intensity of community
support will decrease over time and will eventually be terninated. In addition, GEF will fund
environmental staff in the Governorate's office. They will be funded by the Govemorate after Project
completion. EEAA will take full responsibility for the Protectorates after Project completion. PCU staff
will gradually pass responsibilities to the Govemorate and other concerned bodies, including ministries,
so that by 2008 they are fully in charge.
Regional planning with an environment focus.  Coordination among the different sectors (local
Government, Tourism Development Authority, Ministry of Planning, North West Coast Development
Agency and the Army) is necessary to ensure that land use and regional development plans reflect the
needs of the local communities and take into account the conservation of endangered habitats and
ecosystems. At present, regional plans for the Govemorate are urban in focus and centrally planned, but
the Project-supported environmental officers will help switch the focus to rural areas. Also, multi-sector
environmentally-centered planning for the Siwa Oasis has been initiated recently through support from
the Italian Government, and the approach and lessons learned will be used by the Project in
implementing the relevant activities with GEF funding.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1   National Benefits
The main benefits from the project are:
(a)    improved welfare for the poorest segments of the rural Bedouin households estimated at 17,600
out of 22,000 rural households. They will benefit from: (i) increased income and income security from
off-farm income generating activities, improved range management practices, watershed management
and better farm technology; (ii) improved living conditions through increased and more reliable water
availability through water harvesting and, especially for women, improved access to social services and
labor saving devices; and (iii) greater empowerment and human capacity development, especially for
women.
(b)    environmental rehabilitation and biodiversity conservation.
-19-



3.2    Global Environmental Benefits
The Project will result in global and regional environmental benefits through the fully integrated
implementation of the described interventions. Specific benefits targeting biodiversity of global
significance will be attained (see Annex 13). In addition, benefits resulting from range rehabilitation will
serve also the objectives of biodiversity conservation. Improvements in soil integrity and water
management will ensure the sustainability of achieved global environmental benefits. Important lessons
can be learned from the monitoring of multiple benefits and documentation of successful participatory
management methods. The following outputs are expected:
(i)    biodiversity conservation and improved integrated natural resource management through
watershed and range management, establishment of protected areas, local biodiversity conservation
areas; support for community-based species conservation initiatives;
(ii)  reduced net emissions of greenhouse gases through biomass conservation achieved with
alternative fuel source uses and improved range management; and
(iii)  local and national capacity established for adequate planning and management of the resources in
an integrated and sustainable manner.
3.3   Replicabilitv
Replicability potential for the results of this Project are high, both within Egypt and in the region. In
terms of approaches chosen, the successful implementation of an integrated development approach at the
local level and the related strengthening and capacity building of local institutions is extremely useful for
the Government of Egypt's efforts in decentralized management, and can be used as a model for other
remote and rural-based Govemorates. This Project is the first of its kind in the country to attempt the
establishment of a bottom-up cross-sectoral planning and implementation mechanism that takes into
consideration aspects of environmental and social sustainability as well as the full involvement of the
communities. This is captured in the process of designing and implementing Community Action Plans
(CAP)s.
In terms of overall technical lessons, the integrated resource management techniques, with a strong
conservation bias, can serve as models in similar rainfed areas of the country and the region. Outputs of
this Project can be used to formulate an integrated dryland management strategy for the country, and
lessons disseminated to other countries along the Mediterranean. Environmental curricula developed for
the local communities will be utilized by EEAA in the awareness programs of other Protected Areas in
Egypt.
During Project implementation, a number of activities will be undertaken to ensure dissemination of
results for enhanced replicability. Part of the Project's activities is to bring farmers and government
officials from outside the project area to demonstrate the various aspects of the Project and encourage the
participants to establish similar schemes in their areas. By reinforcing the environmental arm of the
Governorate's office, the Project's initiatives can be spread to the rest of the Governorate. In addition,
there has been and will continue to be videos, articles and newsletters, etc. expounding the successes
(and failures) of various interventions. Common activities will be planned with the related GEF/UNDP
projects in biodiversity conservation to share results and experiences.
-20 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project management arrangements will largely follow the structure established under MRMP 1, but other
stakeholders will be involved to reflect the enhanced focus on environmental and participatory aspects.
Execution responsibility will be assigned with autonomous funding to the Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency (EEAA) for the implementation of the biodiversity conservation activities. Coordination
will be enhanced with the Govemorate and relevant Ministries to ensure the sustainability of services
beyond the project life.
Governing bodies.
The expression of local community requests, the coordination and the consistency of activities to be
implemented will be ensured by 4 committees located at the national, regional and sub-regional levels:
* the National Coordination Committee (NCC);
* the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the Local Communities' Regional Committee; and
*   Local Communities' Sub-regional Committees at the SRSCs level (one at each SRSC).
The National Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of the National Coordinator appointed by
MALR includes a representative from the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) and the
Director of Foreign Agriculture Relations of the Ministry of Agriculture.  When appropriate,
representatives of other services or bi/multi-lateral projects being executed in the project area will be
co-opted. Under MRMP I, this Committee should take a more active role in the affairs of the project.
The NCC: (i) provides guidance on issues of policy and strategy consistent with national programming
concerns; (ii) facilitates and supports the work of the Project management team; and (iii) monitors the
performance of the Project.
At the Govemorate level, the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) is a coordinating mechanism
between the Project, the local communities' representatives and the other Governorate entities. It will
have its mandate and membership updated to ensure representation of the Health, Education and Social
services which were not part of the PCC under the first project. The Govemorate Environmental
Management Unit (EMU) which will be involved under the Project with GEF funding as well as the
Biodiversity Conservation Unit, whose staff is nominated by NCS/EEAA, will be represented on the
PCC. An important innovation is the fact that local communities will be represented on the Project
Coordination Committee, with two representatives, whereas under MRMP I, the PCC was exclusively an
administrative body.
The Project Coordination Committee meets four times a year. It: (i) ensures a two-way flow of
information between the project, the govemorate and the sectoral services; (ii) ensures coordination in
planning and implementation between CAPs and project activities on the one hand, and governorate
annual investment plan and sectoral plans on the other hand; (iii) facilitates the provision of additional
required services to local communities as need may arise; and (iv), resolves any issue that may arise
during implementation that are beyond the scope of the Project.
Local communities are represented at the Sub-regional Support Center level (2 representatives per Local
Community). The five Local Community Sub-regional committees will each choose two representatives
for the Local Community Regional Committee which in turn, will elect two representatives to the PCC.
These committees are communication and consultation mechanisms for the Local Communities, enabling
them to exchange experience and learn from each other. In addition, the regional level committee has
specific functions, as follows: (i) identify implementation problems and make proposals to solve them;
- 21 -



(ii) prepare the Project Coordination Committee; and (iii) organize feedback information to local
communities. Therefore it meets four times a year as the Project Coordination Committee does: each
session includes a meeting before and after the PCC meeting.
The additional functions of the Local Community Sub-regional Committee is to: (i) identify the
sub-regional priorities to be discussed with local popular councils and sectoral services; (ii) identify
activities that cut across or show effects across community boundaries; and (iii) prepare the Local
Community Regional Committee.
Project implementation arrangements. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will coordinate the
implementation of the project activities through its five Sub-Regional Support Centers (SRSCs),
supported by research carried out by the Matruh Adaptive Research Center (MARC) or other research
institutes as the need may arise. The PCU has delegation of authority regarding the disbursement of
project funds and procurement. Over the years, it has acquired considerable experience with the
implementation of the first MRMP.
Modifications will be made to the organizational structure to reflect the changes in emphasis, namely,
the greater focus on community planning, gender, environmental protection, range management and
off-farm income generating activities, including more efficient access to and dissemination of
project-related information within the Project and between the Project and the communities. There will
be six implementing units under the PCU regrouped under three Directors:
*   Community Development and Gender Units, under the Director of Community Development;
* Land and Water Management Unit (including Roads); Range Management Unit; and Biodiversity
Conservation Unit (EEAA/NCS seconded staff), all under the Director for Natural Resource
Management;
* Agricultural and Livestock Services Unit, and a supervisor, in charge of monitoring the
implementation of the off-farm productive activities and the micro-finance scheme, under the
Director for Productive Activities Development.
Each Unit, is headed by its own manager, responsible for managing its own budget and preparing its
annual work program. The Unit managers, together with the head of the Financial Management Unit and
the Directors of the Sub Regional Support Centers constitute the Project Management Committee, an
internal task force for coordinating the planning and the implementation of the activities. This task force:
(i) ensures consistency of unit work programs with the Local Communities' Annual Work Program. The
task force: (i) reviews the unit work programs, approves them, or requests revision in case of
inconsistency; (ii) reviews unit progress reports; and (iii), ensures facilitation, mediation, and conflict
resolution.The PMC meets at least monthly and is chaired by the DDG.
The Biodiversity Conservation Unit will be headed by a NSC/EEAA appointed manager, and will be
composed of three staff appointed by the NCS/EEAA. This unit will be located in the PCU to enhance
coordination and the adoption of multi-disciplinary approaches to implementation. However, it will
manage a separate budget. It will be technically affiliated to EEAA, while being administratively under
the PCU to ensure overall coherence of project implementation. In addition, two Protected Area
Management (PAM) offices will be created and staffed for the two PAs in El Qasr and Salloum. The
recurrent costs of these PAM offices will be gradually taken up by EEAA so as to ensure financial
sustainability of this supporting structure, to facilitate its integration within the network of Protected
Areas of EEAA when the Project ends. Initially, the PAM office will be housed in one of the SRSCs until
preparatory work and official declaration is completed.
-22 -



Chanie in Management Culture. The core concern of MRMP II is achieving sustainability through
fostering self-reliance and promoting community ownership of the development process. This will
require some changes in the Project management culture in order to create the space for the communities
to develop their own managerial capabilities. It will require Project staff to adopt a supportive and
facilitating role, rather than merely an implementing role. Changes will include in particular redefining
the terms of reference and staff profiles for all senior project staff (both managerial and technical).
Local communities' role. Local communities will be playing a more active role than under the first
project: (i) they will elaborate their Community Action Plans (CAPs) and Annual Work Program and
Budgets, indicating their priorities in terms of resource allocation; Project actions will be based on the
aggregation of the AWPBs; (ii) they will identify the poorest households for targeted interventions; and
(iii) they will be more involved in the implementation: not only digging cisterns, but also managing the
range, undertaking biodiversity conservation actions; participating in the management of the Protected
Areas and other areas of biodiversity importance; taking part in the diffusion of knowledge and
information through the wukala; organizing the production and the marketing of their handicrafts and
processed agri-products; providing the basic material (stone gathering and stockpiling) for road
construction.
Contracting out. Contracting out tasks whenever possible, instead of recruiting staff to perform them, will
stimulate the development of local expertise to serve the needs of the Local Communities and enhance
sustainability of project actions. It is hoped that this expertise will continue to be available after the
Project closes. In particular, for the off-farm income-generating activities (handicrafts and
agro-processing), a technical assistance firm will supervise community marketing professionals, recruited
to set up the system and provide training and backstopping to producer groups. Similarly, a specialized
technical assistance company will be responsible for the set up of the micro-finance credit scheme.
Finally, most of the watershed development will be contracted out to local enterprises, as well as all the
road works.
Financial Management and Accounting. Financial management, accounting and financial reporting will
be assured by the Financial Management Unit of the PCU. The FMU will maintain accounting records
for project components, prepare and disseminate project accounts and Financial Monitoring Reports (See
Section E. 4.4 for Financial management issues and Annex 6B). If needed, it will be backstopped by a
financial management firm.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Except for the institutional arrangements envisaged under Section 3. Key policy and institutional reforms
to be sought and the progressive transfer of implementation responsibilities to the communities, no
alternative to the present project set up is being considered:
(i) MRMP II will move towards a community-driven development approach, which presupposes that the
communities decide on resource allocation, and that the responsibilities for implementation get
progressively transferred to them;                                                  >
(ii) MARC, which will be operated under the Project, should become a unit of an established research
institute;
(iii) a micro-finance scheme should be established by a professional service provider; and
(iv) some of the functions of the PCU will be streamlined into the services of the govemorate by the end
of the project (health, education and environment).
- 23 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
'Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    -Project                -(PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects onlj)
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progrss (IP)  Objective (DO)
Natural Resource Management       Matruh Resource Management      S             S
Project
Agriculture                      Agricultural Modernization       U             U
Agriculture                       East Delta Agricultural         S             S
Services Project
Irrigation                       Irrigation Improvement Project   S             S
Drainage                          Second National Drainage        S             S
Project
Drainage                         National Drainage Project        HS           HS
Irrigation/Drainage               Second Pump Station             HS           HS
Rehabilitation Project
Irrigation/Drainage              Third Pump Station               S             S
Rehabilitation Project
Other development agencies
UNDP/GEF Biodiversity Conservation Conservation of Wetlands and
Coastal Ecosystems in the
Mediterranean Region
UNDP/ GEF Biodiversity
Conservation                     Conservation and Sustainable
Use of Medicinal Plants in
Arid and Semi Arid Areas of
Egypt
Sustainable Development of
the Siwa Region
Italian Cooperation              Sustainable Development of
the Siwa Region
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satsfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The World Bank MENA region recently financed a review of eight projects with a community-driven
development (CDD) approach, including the MRM project. The region organized regional workshops as
well as a workshop at headquarters, based on the conclusions and recommendations of this study (see
Annex 18 and Moncef Zghidi: Review of Community-Driven development Projects in MNA: Case study
of Matruh Resources Management Project (April 2001). In addition to the lessons already incorporated
in Section 3: Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought, the following supplementary lessons from
this review were taken into account in project preparation:
(i) Effective demand-driven agproach. A rigid budget with specific activities already identified at the
design phase of the Project would contradict the demand-driven approach. Hence, the initial budget
allocation among components and cost tables (Costab) can only be indicative. At implementation stage,
all the activities subject to local communities' decision and recorded under their Community Action Plan
-24 -



will be financed out of one line item in the Project budget: Local Community Grants, whatever the
component and whatever the disbursement category, i.e. civil works, goods and equipment or consultant
and training.
(ii) Capacity-building. targeting communities. MRMP I emphasized capacity building of a technical
nature for project staff, but little was done for capacity building of the communities themselves, other
than for women. Thus, MRMP II will put particular emphasis on local community capacity building.
(Component A).
(iii) Criteria for resource allocation to target the poorest and independent external evaluation of their
implementation. Project managers as well as community representatives can be under considerable
political and social pressure to allocate resources in ways that will not necessarily target the poorest.
Elite capture is a common phenomenon. Therefore, while the problem of political and social pressure,
and elite capture cannot be completely avoided, Project preparation has been emphasizing the definition
of criteria for resource allocation and agreement thereupon with the communities. External independent
evaluations will be scheduled during implementation to monitor compliance. See Section E.6.4.
Summary Project Analysis - Social. (Page 29).
(iv) Marketine issues.  Promoting increased agricultural production, agricultural diversification,
processing and handicrafts will run into difficulties if marketing issues are not addressed up-front. The
off-farm income-generating activity component integrates the chain of functions, from production to
markets.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The following are positive indicators of the borrower's commitment and ownership for the Project:
(i)    The GOE, going by the highly successful results of the current MRMP, has officially requested
the Bank to take a lead role in preparing the follow-on project and to cooperate with other donors such as
IFAD;
(ii)   The GOE has also requested the Bank to obtain a Japanese PHRD grant for preparation of the
project;
(iii)  The GOE utilized funding under the TA component of IDA Credit (Cr. 2504-EGT) for project
preparation until the PHRD grant became effective to ensure preparation work did not suffer any delay;
(iv)   The GOE provided additional funding of about LE 11 million to enable the continuation of
project activities in the remaining period to closure of the MRMP I, which was extended by one year to
close on December 31, 2002; the GOE also provided LE 3.8 million, to finance the salaries of staff and a
minimum amount of activities between the time MRIvIP I closes and the time the IBRD loan for MRMRP
II becomes effective; finally, the Ministry of Planning already earmarked counterpart funds to be
available on July 1, 2003, or as soon as the IBRD loan is effective
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank is involved in the implementation of community-driven development projects and natural
resource management projects in many countries, in the Mediterranean and North Africa Region (MNA)
and other regions. The MNA region recently financed a review of eight projects with a
community-driven development (CDD) approach (see above, lessons learnt). The Bank also played a
leading role with IFAD, given its experience in the first project.
The GEF value added comes from its global experience in the design, implementation and financing of
- 25 -



biodiversity, climate change and international waters projects. The GEF support is justified by the total
regional and global benefits attained from the integrated approaches to land, water and biodiversity
management in the project area. Coordination with other GEF projects in the country and region will
enhance the opportunities for exchange of ideas, information and integrated monitoring and oversight.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
MRMP II will aim at reducing rural poverty by potentially targeting all 22,000 households in the Project
area. However, based on criteria determined by the communities, the Project will allocate its resources
with priority to the poorer segments of the target population. Direct benefits from Project activities:
increased income and income security, and improved living conditions, measured as incremental net farm
income, will accrue to the target population . The economic analysis is based on six representative farm
models with different combinations of the most common cropping and livestock activities and which
reflect two farm sizes. The "with project" alternative comprises operational budgets for agricultural
activities, yield effects of erosion control, and on-farm investment costs for orchards plantation, water
harvesting measures, fodder shrub plantations and animal sheds. Rainfall probabilities and yield response
to rainfall variation are used to account for the risk associated with rainfed agriculture.
The financial intemal rates of return (IRR) at farm level range from 14.8% for the "small new tree crop
plantation and livestock" system under poor rainfall conditions to 90.6% in the "small tree, barley,
livestock" system in the high rainfall scenario. Financial IRRs based on average yield effects weighted by
rainfall probabilities would not fall below 27.8% for any of the six tested farm models. By year 20 after
the start of project implementation, the farm income would have increased by 30%, 26%, 70%, 59%,
109% and 83% in the six farm models, respectively, compared to the income situation in the "without
project" alternative. In general, the proposed resource management improvements show good financial
retums in all farm models. As expected, the farm model combining trees, annual crops and livestock
shows the highest returns and the least vulnerability with regard to climatic conditions. Only under
persistent drought conditions and only in the case of new orchards, farmers will get close to risking
financial losses if they adopted the proposed innovations. Adoption rates can be expected to be
comparatively high as long as subsidized or free services and infrastructure support of high quality are
provided.
The economic attractiveness of Project activities was assessed through a regional model based on the
average rainfall scenario, aggregating farm models according to their occurrence in the region and taling
into account adoption rates as observed during the preceding MRMP I, converting financial to economic
prices, and including the full economic cost of the Project. The economic IRR of 18.8% shows that
project interventions are profitable from an overall economy's viewpoint, even if only the direct benefits
in the farm households are taken into account. The actual economic attractiveness can be assumed to be
higher if non-quantified benefits from community-focused and environmental activities are included,
such as the strengthening of community and women development capacity, the support to off-farm
income activities and marketing, the paving of rural roads, and biodiversity conservation. However, the
economic viability of the Project is particularly sensitive to changes in the total cost and benefits, and to
adoption rates of the developed and proposed innovations. The continued application of a farming
- 26 -



systems approach viewing the farm-household as a decision-making unit that allocates family resources
to a number of competing but often inter-related farm and off-farn activities under external
socio-economic constraints; high-quality, efficient and institutionalized dissemination mechanisms by the
Project and other service providers; as well as strong community participation will be crucial for
adoption and long-term sustainability.
An Incremental Cost Analysis was undertaken for GEF-funded project activities with global benefits.
These include improved biodiversity conservation, with a focus on globally significant species,
increasing biomass cover in rangeland areas and reduced losses from wind and water erosion. The
baseline expenditure was calculated to establish the current and planned funding amounts for integrated
resource management having a national benefit. The GEF alternative proposes complimentary or
substitution activities that are required to ensure that global environmental benefits are attained. The
difference between the cost of the baseline scenario and the cost of the GEF alternative represents the
incremental cost. The GEF contribution towards the Incremental Cost is US$5.17 million, while GOE,
IBRD and IFAD are committed to funding the baseline scenario as well as to co-financing part of the
increment costs. (See Annex 11: Incremental Cost analysis).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The beneficiaries will contribute US$4.4 million or 9.8 percent of total project cost in the form of
voluntary labor contributions and local materials for the construction and maintenance of water
harvesting structures, social centers and roads, equity contributions to credit-financed income-generating
activities and financial support to community resource persons. In order not to prejudice the involvement
of poor households, the communities will define mechanisms for differential contributions.
The contribution of the Government of Egypt (GOE) will be US$10.4 million (23.1 percent of total
project cost) of which US$2.1 million will be taxes and duties. GOE will finance 87% of salaries and
allowances and 72% of total recurrent cost, broadly in line with the present financing arrangements under
MRMP I. This will include full coverage of the maintenance responsibilities for the roads constructed
under the Project. Governmental funds will be provided through the budget of MALR. MALR will be
responsible for including the Project in its budget submissions to GOE Department of Finance.
Co-financing arrangements with IFAD and GEF will provide for at least 45 percent concessionality and
thus meet GOE's requirements of a minimum of 40 percent grant element.
Fiscal Impact:
See above
3. Technical:
Identifying sustainable rangeland management practices that are effective and appropriate for the herders
will be one of the key issues addressed by the research and extension teams. Under the first project, a
number of technologies have been proposed to farmers/herders including fodder trees and shrub
plantations, inter-cropping barley with nitrogen fixing annuals such as vetch, alley-cropping with
nitrogen fixing trees and over seeding existing rangelands. These technologies were addressing the feed
gap issue, but not appropriate range management under the new sedentarized conditions. Water
harvesting will be refined as a result of experience gained under MRMP I. This should increase the
supply of water for crops and kitchen gardens (as well as households) and reduce the incidence of
erosion.
- 27 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) will have the overall responsibility for the
execution of the Project, which will be entrusted to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in Marsa
Matruh, established to implement the current MRMP. The Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
(EEAA) will be a full partner in the implementation of the Biodiversity Conservation activities, with
separate funding. Four full-time staff will constitute the Biodiversity Unit within the PCU structure, in
addition to the staff and rangers of the two Protected Areas. Support for two part-time environmental
experts in the Govemorate's Environmental Management Unit (EMU) will be provided. These will
assist the PCU, the five sub-regional support centers and the 38 communities in environmental matters.
The Off-farm Income Generating Activities Sub-component will be implemented by an NGO or private
firm. The pilot micro-finance credit scheme will be implemented by a professional service provider.
Local Communities themselves will have an important role to play in implementation (see Section C. 5).
4.2 Project management:
The Project management will be carried out by the PCU, situated at Marsa Matruh (See Section C. 5. for
details).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacities of the PCU was assessed during Appraisal. Although the project team
developed some experience in dealing with procurement under Bank-financed projects during the first
project, the Procurement Unit (PRU) should be strengthened, particularly in the selection and
employment of consultants, and procurement planning. A centralized filing system, with individual files
for each procurement action from tendering to contract award and administration should be set up.
Intensive training is recommended as part of project preparation. The World Bank Office in Cairo will
provide on the job-training as the need arises, and continuous follow-up. Two additional staff will be
either recruited or assigned to the PRU. One of the PCU trained staff, who attended the training in
procurement of goods and consulting services at ILO, Turin, and the Bank workshop in Sharm El Sheikh,
Egypt, will be assigned to the PRU. The profile of the person who will be designated as the head of the
procurement unit will have to correspond to the profile defined by the World Bank procurement
specialist. The results of the procurement assessment is that overall, there will be a substantial
procurement risk until intensive training has been completed and the unit adequately staffed. Until the
training is completed, a short-term consultant may be hired by the PRU on a retainer basis.
The total value of contracts subject to prior review represents 30% percent of the total Loan amount. For
the rest of the procurement, the Borrower shall furnish all information and documents that Bank may
reasonably request, as part of the post review. A procurement plan was prepared during appraisal, as well
as a procurement manual as part of the Project Operation Manual.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The present financial management capacities of the PCU and arrangements no longer meet the Bank's
present requirements. A financial management action plan was agreed with the project and its successful
implementation is a condition for effectiveness. The detailed financial management assessment is
included in Annex 6(B) and in project files. The identified financial risks for this Project are the
following:
-28 -



Country Financial Management Risks: ROSC draft report (2002), Mini-CFAA (1997), preliminary
CFAA process (2002), and CPPR report (2002) identified major weaknesses in the Egyptian financial
accountability, in both the Egyptian public and private sectors. Also, in Transparency International's
Corruption Perceived Index (CPI) for 2001, Egypt scored 3.6 out of 10, suggesting high levels of
perceived corruption in government and public administration. To strengthen accountability, the Project
will be controlled and accounted for by the PCU.
Project Financial Management Risk: The present PCU financial management system (responsible for
implementing Matruh I) no longer meets Bank requirements. It is a manual accounting and budgeting
system. Informal accounting policies and procedures are used, not recorded in any manual. Staff in the
finance department need capacity building in the areas of finance, accounting, computer, and English.
Annual audits for MRMP I were carried out by the Central Auditing Organization (CAO) which is no
longer accepted by the Bank for new projects. Finally, since MRMP II has one more funding source and
another executing agency (EEAA), financial management will undoubtedly be more complex than for the
first project.
Financial mitigating measures: A qualified FM consultant has been hired to establish a sound financial
management and reporting system within the PCU. The consultant is also responsible to prepare a
financial management and accounting manual and train staff. As part of this work, a computerized
financial management system will be put in place, and staff trained. Also, annual audit for the Project
will be handled by a private, qualified, and independent auditor. This will be complemented by a close
and intense supervision by the Bank for the Project. If need be, the contract of the FM consultant will be
extended during the first year of the Project to provide backstopping upon request.
Counterpart funds availability risk: Allocation of counterpart funds will be made annually within
MALR's budget. Unlike other projects in Egypt counterpart funds were timely available for MRMP I and
there is no reason to expect otherwise for MRMP II: GOE is committed to the objectives of the Project,
as demonstrated by the fact that some funding is made available even during the interim period of the two
projects.
Banking arrangements: The Banking system in Egypt is relatively strong. MRMP II will have the
project's Special Accounts in a reputable commercial bank in Matruh (National Bank of Egypt).
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment process for the Project was carried out prior to Appraisal. The team
surveyed the completed activities under MRMP I, visited the proposed areas for the new Project,
including the two proposed Protected Area sites and held a number of consultation meetings.with local
community representatives in the different project areas. Based on the field work, an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and Environmental Guidelines Manual were prepared and the findings shared
with various stakeholders at the local and national level. The final documents have been publicly
disclosed at a number of locations, including the Matruh Adaptive Research Center (MARC), the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency, the Library of the National Research Center and the World
Bank Office in Cairo.
There are only lirnited environmental issues that have been identified by the environmental assessment
process. The first limited impact issue concerns drinking water quality, while the second relates to
screening the demand-driven activities to identify potential environmental impacts and related mitigation
- 29-



measures. For drinking water quality, it is recommended as a matter of prudence to implement proper
mitigation measures to minimize any potential risks. Mitigation measures at the source include improved
water management practices and water quality monitoring. Mitigation measures are also proposed for the
planning and implementation of activities (community centers, latrines and cisterns) and the construction
of rural roads.
The environmental assessment process verified the overall positive impacts of the Project. The second
Project will continue to promote sustainable resource use measures with the active participation of the
stakeholders. The GEF component will emphasize best crop and livestock production systems as well as
community biodiversity conservation practices. It will provide hands-on training to the communities
regarding environmental conservation practices. By reducing runoff and increasing vegetative cover, the
project will restore the productivity of degraded soils and improve prospects for sustainable natural
resource management. Furthermore, the introduction of water conservation methods and the planting of
shelterbelts and improved rangeland management practices will contribute to combating desertification.
Finally, the establishment of the two proposed Protected Areas will ensure that globally significant
biodiversity is properly managed and conserved.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP (see Annex 14) identifies the environmental mitigation measures, screening process,
capacity-building and monitoring activities that will be undertaken, as well as the institutional
arrangements to ensure that any potential adverse environmental impacts are either eliminated or
minimized.
The EMP integrates social, financial, institutional, technical and economic aspects of the Project,
proposes an implementation schedule for undertaking these activities and indicates their costs which have
been included in the project budget. The proposed EMP activities are fully integrated with the overall
Project approach of integrated ecosystem management, and adequately complement and build upon the
GEF supported efforts in biodiversity conservation, community participation in environmental
management and decentralized environmental planning and implementation.
The Environmental Guidelines Manual provides additional details and safeguard screening procedures
for activities, as well as identification of good practices for environmental mitigation. Hence all Project
activities will be screened by the Biodiversity Conservation Unit for any potentially negative
environmental impacts following the guidelines presented in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
The Project will not support the procurement of pesticides or pesticide application equipment, nor will
the project affect pest management in a way that could cause harm. Interviews conducted with farmers
revealed that no chemical pesticides/herbicides are being used to control pests, only biological products.
No significant conversion or degradation of natural habitats or critical natural habitats will result from
the small-scale project interventions. In fact, the measures taken to conserve the ecosystems both within
and outside the Protected Areas will have positive impacts on the status of the habitat.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 31,2002
EA start-up date:                   March 1, 2002
Date of first EA draft:             March 31, 2002
Date of Public EA Disclosure:       June 12, 2002
The Project was placed in environmental screening category "B" and after a field based environmental
- 30 -



review, it remains in that category. The Project will have mostly beneficial impacts on the environment,
however, some safeguard policies are triggered: World Bank Policy, OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) are triggered.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The proposed Project has been prepared using participatory assessment workshops, whereby local
representatives took part in the preparation exercise. Environmental issues were also discussed with the
local community representatives during the preparation stage. The draft EMP and the Environmental
Guidelines Manual were discussed with the key stakeholders at the local and national level. These
included current and proposed GOE implementing agencies (MALR and EEAA), PCU staff at the head
office and sub-regional support centers, community representatives (mandubeen) of the 38 local
communities, as well as general meetings with community groups at large. Following these discussions,
some sections have been modified based on lessons learned or to better suit the local conditions.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A thorough M & E system has been established and will be enlarged under MRMP II to build capacity
within the M&E Unit, as well as in the newly-created Natural Resource Management Unit, to perform
specific environmental monitoring and evaluation functions for the Project. The Biodiversity
Conservation Unit will assume responsibility for monitoring compliance with environmental screening
requirements and implementation of any mitigation measures for sub-projects required as a result of
environmental screening. Furthermore, the Biodiversity Conservation Unit, in coordination with the
M&E Unit will periodically monitor specified indicators of environmental impacts of the projects (e.g.,
drinking water quality, incidence of water-bome diseases, terrestrial biodiversity, rangeland regenerative
capacity). This environmental monitoring will be incorporated into the overall MRMP II monitoring plan
required as part of Project performance by the World Bank. The results of such monitoring will be
recorded and reported in the PCU's bi-annual progress reports to the Bank and will be reviewed by Bank
supervision missions. In the context of the GEF program, the Biodiversity Conservation Unit will
develop a specific monitoring program, with verifiable indicators (e.g., changes from baseline conditions
in diversity of flora and fauna, area devoted to community conservation efforts), to monitor and evaluate
progress in achieving and sustaining expected global environmental benefits. This program will be
integrated into the overall M&E system for the project to reflect the full integration of environmental
dimensions into project planning and monitoring. A set of performance indicators for the implementation
of the EMP has been included in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
MRMP I has built upon the Bedouin tribal organization, identifying 38 "local communities." A "local
community" is a geographically and socially coherent unit. It corresponds to a "territory" with its
watersheds, and the people who live from its resources. Most of the 38 local communities are made of
clans that belong to two or three tribes. (see Annex 16).
The core concern of MRMP 11 is achieving sustainability through fostering self-reliance and promoting
community ownership of the development process and strengthening relations with existing Government
institutions and services. Under the Second Project, the implementation strategy will evolve towards a
more community-driven process, building upon the existing tribal social structure and promoting women
- 31 -



involvement (See Annexes 17 and 18). The key social issues, arising out of this goal therefore include:
(a)    Giving communities greater responsibility for planning, managing, implementing and monitoring
their own development activities so that they are better prepared for, and able to carry on the
development of their communities on their own initiative and with their own resources after the
completion of the Project. To achieve this, the relationship between the Project staff and the local
communities must evolve, and the capacities of the local communities need to be strengthened.
(b)    Ensuring transparent processes and accountability between community representatives and PCU,
and a two-level flow of communication between mandoubeen and other community members. Under the
first project, planning stopped at the local community level. Under the Second Project, planning will
start at the level of the aila.
(c)    Ensuring that communities will be able to interface with other agencies after the completion of
the Project. To this end, the Community Action Plans will include all the activities that a Local
Community will want implemented, whether by the Project or other agencies. Local communities will be
encouraged to seek support outside the Project.
(d)    Promoting a self-help process, so as to promote self-reliance.
(e)    Aiming for inclusiveness, ensuring that all heads of households in the community have an input
in the decision-making process and are aware of the allocation of resources.
(f)    Ensuring that mandoubeen apply clear criteria to target the poorest households.
(g)    Ensuring that women are integrated into the participatory planning and implementation process
and that resources are allocated for women capacity building.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Each Local Community will be responsible to prepare its Community Action Plan and an Annual Work
Program and Budget (AWPB) for the first year with the help of Project staff and a professional NGO
recruited by the Project for that purpose (See Annex 18). Subsequent AWPBs will be prepared every
year based on an evaluation of the past year achievements, emerging demands and opportunities, and
annual resource allocations. This process will allow for modifications in communities' priorities as new
opportunities may develop.
The CAPs will be prepared at the aila level and presented to meetings of all heads of households for
approval prior to aggregation at the community level (several ailaat) and submission to the PCU.
Resource allocation will be decided by the communities themselves, which requires that each community
knows the amount of funding available to them, so that they can decide how much they want to allocate
to each of their priorities The implementation of the AWPBs will be jointly monitored and evaluated by
the communities and the Project staff.
The AWPBs will form the basis of the Project annual work plan (WP) and budget, which will be an
amalgamation of the AWPBs. The AWPBs will be the sole mechanism for allocating Project resources
to household and community investments, but private investments will also be encouraged. The AWPBs
will not only include requests for infrastructure investments, but also for training and advisory services.
Hence the extension program of work will be based upon the aggregation of the requests for advisory
services from each AWPB. This will also be used to guide the focus and content of the adaptive research
- 32 -



programs for the comning year.
Collaboration with the local communities involves cost sharing. The levels of participants' contributions
will depend on the type of activities. If it is an immediate revenue-earning activity, the benefit can be
individually appropriated and the contribution will be higher than for public goods. Environmental
conservation measures are likely to have long-term and collective benefits, thus contributions may be
forgone. The various levels of community and household sharing will be decided at the time of the first
planning exercise.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The projects builds upon the tribal organization structure as described under Section E 6.1 and E 6.2
above. In addition, for areas which are not the domain of expertise of the MALR, that is, Component C2
"Off-farm productive activities"and Component E "Revolving Fund/Rural Micro-finance," the Project
will contract the implementation to a professional NGOs or specialized service provider.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For MRMP II, a Community Development Unit and a Gender Unit have been created, headed by a
Community Development Director. A professional NGO, specialized in community development
methodology and processes is training CDU staff and helping them work with the Local Communities to
develop their six-year CAP and first annual work program and budget.
The issue of targeting the poorest is critical. To ensure targeting of the relatively more disadvantaged
people, mandoubeen will be responsible for establishing the criteria for identifying the disadvantaged
households within their community, undertaking wealth ranking to categorize these households (to be
checked against the Project's database) and for selecting beneficiaries in accordance with the outcome.
The criteria and ranking will be discussed and agreed upon with mandoubeen during workshops to be
conducted during the first planning exercise. Mandoubeen will then use the criteria and ranking when
deciding resource allocation within their community. At mid-term review, independent external
consultants will assess whether these procedures are being adhered to:
In the process of resource allocation, communities will address the requirements for beneficiary
contributions to project investment e.g. cisterns. The emphasis will be on equity issues through making
provision for poorer households to contribute less (in kind mainly through labor) whilst better off
households will contribute more, in line with their greater ability to pay. Communities will be required
to make a specific resource allocation for women's development activities and the staff of the Gender
Unit will assist the women to prioritize their development activities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An active Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has been established under MRMP I, which currently carries
out M&E work, Beneficiary Contact Surveys and Case Studies to evaluate the value of project
interventions. In view of the difficulties encountered in recruiting an experienced socio-economist under
the first project, and in order to provide an independent assessment, an institution will be contracted to
undertake the evaluation of the project activities. This will include undertaking a small sample baseline
diagnostic survey to update the project's knowledge of the socio-economic circumstances of households
within the project area, with a particular emphasis on the coping strategies of poor households. A small,
but fixed samnple of households will be surveyed on an annual basis. In addition, an interim and
completion evaluation will be undertaken prior to the Mid-Term Review and in the final year. The data
- 33-



and information collected will be used to assess, on a yearly basis, the impact of the Project on different
stakeholders, and to make adjustments if and when needed. Part of the GEF contribution will be used to
undertake socio-economic surveys, especially dealing with fuel use, water use and kitchen practices.
However, it should be noted that whatever the observed changes in household and individual well-being,
they cannot be attributed to project interventions, in the absence of a control group. The PCU cannot
keep a group of households out of the Project intervention, for the purpose of establishing a control
group, for obvious social and equity reasons.
- 34-



The proposed social and economic monitoring indicators are given in the Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the proect?
Policy                                    Triggered ,     ..
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                (U) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 (U Yes a No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    Yes (9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes 9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment): An environmental assessment process was completed prior to
appraisal and the findings reflected in the EMP. The Environmental Guidelines Manual provides
safeguard screening procedures for all Project activities, as well as identification of good practices for
environmental mitigation. The implementation of the EMP is designed to ensure adequate compliance
with OP 4.01, and will be monitored by the PCU and EEAA throughout project lifetime.
OP 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples). The objective at the center of OD 4.20 is to ensure that indigenous
peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the development process. In the case of MRMP II, the
Bedouin people comprise the entire population living in the target area, and therefore OP 4.20 is
triggered. However, since: (i) the Bedouins are the sole project beneficiaries; (ii) MRMP II was prepared
using a participatory approach; and, (iii) all project interventions have been designed to improve the
status of the Bedouins (poverty alleviation, access to water, access to health and education. improved
rangeland management, etc.) while taking into account and building upon their cultural specificities,
there is no need for the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). The Project will undertake the identification and declaration of two
protected areas (PAs) in the project zone. These will be defined, based on their biodiversity significance,
status of degradation and potentials for conservation and altemative economic activities that can be built
on the new conservation status. The process will be undertaken with the full participation of the local
communities in the identification of the PAs and the design and implementation of the PA management
plans, as is the case in other similar established PAs in Egypt. The issue of possible loss of income or
means of livelihoods resulting from the loss of access to resources triggers OP 4.12 (para 36 on access to
natural resources). These losses will be assessed when the boundaries of the PAs will have been
established. If it is established that the PAs will result in loss of income or means of livelihood, the
Project will provide compensation through supporting altemative economic activities. The preparatory
and consultation work with the stakeholders and local communities to determine the boundaries is
expected to take two years. The GOE prepared a Process Framework outlining the steps and participatory
process to: (i) determine the boundaries of the PA; (ii) design the Protected Area Management Plan; (iii)
define the criteria of eligibility for vulnerable and affected persons and the means to assist the affected
persons, if any, in their efforts to improve their livelihoods or at least restore them; (iv) identify the
- 35 -



potential conflict resolution mechanisms and the monitoring and follow-up arrangements (see Annex 15).
No other activities financed under the Project trigger OP 4.12. In particular, works financed under the
Project do not entail any involuntary resettlement or involuntary land acquisition issues.
8.     Business Policies
8.1    Check applicable item.
Financing of recurrent costs               (OMS 10.02).
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average     (OP 6.30. BP 6.30. GP 6.30).
Retroactive financing above normal limits   (OP 12.10. BP 12.10. GP 12.10).
Financial management                        (OP 10.02. BP 10.02).
Involvement of NGOs                         (GP 14.70).
8.2   Issues.
For the business policies checked above, describe issue(s) involved.
Financiing of recurrent costs: To ensure that the PCU is fully funded and able to carry out
implementation, the Project will provide some financing of recurrent cost as was the case for MRMP I.
The GOE contributes US$8.3 millions above and beyond taxes and duties which represent 18.7 percent
of total project costs and 72 percent of recurrent costs. Some of the project activities such as water
harvesting and income generating activities will be funded on a cost-sharing basis with beneficiaries.
The beneficiaries will contribute US$4.4 millions or 9.8 percent of total project costs.
NGOs will be involved in project implementation, under contract with the Borrower, for the Off-farm
income generating activity sub-component and the micro-finance component.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The core concern of MRMP H is achieving sustainability through fostering self-reliance and promoting
community ownership of the development process and strengthening relations with existing Government
institutions and services. This will be achieved through Component 1, Capacity-building of local
communities.
The sustainability of services provided to the communities will depend on the mainstreaming of the
Matruh Adaptive Research Center and of some of the services now funded by the PCU, in particular
health and education. It will also depend on the extent to which the Project can transfer some of the
implementation responsibility to existing NGOs and help establish a micro-finance scheme.
Sustainability of services and mechanisms established under the GEF will depend on the capacities of
local communities and Government agencies to continue the formulation and adoption of integrated
management plans in the area. It will be addressed through targeted capacity building programs, as well
as the inclusion of the relevant Government agencies in the implementation from the start. As previously
stated this includes supporting field presence of the NCS/EEAA for the management of protected areas
jointly with the communities, as well as ensuring that communities themselves undertake their own
'informal' conservation schemes. Support for the enhanced environmental management capacity in the
Governorate will also hopefully have a positive impact on the quality of services and mechanisms of
- 36 -



development planning in the future.
la. Replicability:
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk               |   RIi&kitIatng          Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Local community representatives do not    M        Funds will be disbursed within the framework
apply the criteria and procedures agreed           of an agreed upon annual work program where
upon during project preparation to target          targeted groups will be clearly identified.
the poorest and the women for project
resource allocation.                               Staff of the Community Development Unit will
be in charge of helping ailaat and mandoubeen
prepare their Community Action Plan and
related annual work program. Their role will be
to sensitize the mandoubeen to target the most
disadvantaged households. In addition, there
will be information and communication
campaigns through mass media. A
publicly-informed community is the best way
to mitigate against some members of the
communities capturing benefits.
From Components to Outputs
AI Capacity Building of Communities       M
Local community capacity is inadequate              CDU plus technical assistance from a
to transfer resource allocation                    professional NGO will provide training for the
responsibilities.                                  local communities.
CDU team staff do not have the capacity   M        Technical assistance and close monitoring
to carry out their new facilitating (rather        should ensure that CDU as well as other project
than doing) role. Technical units do not           staff are trained in their new role as facilitators.
leave the decision making effectively in           It should also help CDU delegate
the hands of the local communities.                responsibilities to local communities. As to
Project Coordination Unit is unwilling to          decision-making process, the local
transfer responsibilities to local                 communities will know their budget allocation
communities.                                       and know that they can choose from a menu of
activities.Activities to be carried out within a
Local Community are left open since they are
funded out of a Local Community Grant line
A2 Strengthening of Women's               M        A professional NGO will work with the local
Development Capacity                               communities and identify with them acceptable
- 37 -



Cultural practices prohibit the                    -mechanisms for women participation.
participation of women.
Resources allocated to women activities   M        The PCU will negotiate a minimum percentage
are insufficient.                                  from the local community budgets to be
allocated for women activities.
B 1. Land and Water Resource                       Local Community capacity to deal with
Management                                         drought conditions will be strengthened,
building on their already considerable
know-how.
Beneficiaries unable to coordinate        S        Part of the training and sensitisation of local
maintenance of structures and unable to            communities will deal with the maintenance
coordinate actions on watershed                    aspects, how to check the structures prior to the
management.                                        rainy season; how to carry out basic
maintenance according to the Maintenance
Manual; and the need to keep a maintenance
and emergency repair fund.
B2. Range Management                      M
Establishing a water supply facility in the  M     The construction of a cistern in the open range
open range could result in further                 will only be undertaken if the LC has set up a
deterioration of the range.                        comprehensive range management plan that
ensures that both water and vegetation are
likely to be used in sustainable manner.
Lower than expected rainfall, with the    S        No mitigation measures.
results that the grazing management
scheme does not show any conclusive
result.
B.3 Biodiversity Conservation             N        Careful validation of proposed environmentally
Herders and farmers are unwilling to take          friendly practices; staff and farmer/herder
on improved environmentally practices              training; public awareness campaigns.
Stakeholders do not agree to establish    M        Agreement, in principle, has already be
National Protectorates and/or community            obtained, provided that boundaries are agreed
conservation areas/environmental                   upon and communities involved in elaborating
hotspots.                                          the management plans and can benefit from
additional income generating activities.
Protectorates and conservation area       N        Agreement will be sought with communities
boundaries not respected.                          for boundaries and management plans that
include rewards and penalties.
Medicinal/herbal plants initiative        M        The initiative will be based upon a detailed
unsuccessful.                                      market analysis once seeding systems and
demonstration plots are established; production
and processing should be technically and
financially feasible.
Environmental education not included.     M        Work closely with Ministry of Education to
ensure curricula acceptable and that materials
and equipment provided.
1. Agriculture and Livestock             S        Introducing drought-tolerant barley varieties and
Lower and more erratic than expected               minimum tillage practices, small-scale home
rainfall.                                          gardens irrigated techniques.
E. Revolving Fund/Rural micro-Finance.    S        As part of its terms of reference, the
-38 -



The scheme piloted is not sustainable at           professional technical assistance company will
the end of the contract of the technical           assist the contracted credit officers to form their
assistance company.                                own micro-finance intermediary firm.
The Board of Trustees will be the guarantor of
the Fund in the long run.
Negotiations with the three commercial banks
which demonstrated an interest for setting up a
micro-finance scheme in Matruh during project
preparation will continue during the pilot phase
so that one of them will be ready to take over.
F. Project Management.                    S         wo additional procurement staff will be
Procurement capacities are limited.                nominated before the start of the Project. The
Head of the unit will be nominated with terms
of reference and profile acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement staff will receive training.
Financial Management is no longer in      S        A financial management firm is putting a new
line with Bank requirements.                       financial management system in place and will
be retained to provide backstopping to the
Project for the first year if need be. Independent
external financial firm will be recruited to audit
the accounts of the Project.
Overall Risk Rating                       M        See above all measures taken
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None foreseen
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower will be expected to:
*   Have nominated the Director General, the Deputy Director General, and the heads of the three
major units: Community Development Unit, Natural Resource Management Unit and Productive
Activities Development Unit and the head of the Procurement Unit with profiles and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank;
*   Have appointed the necessary staff from EEAA to work in the Biodiversity Sub-Unit;
*   Have set in place a financial management and accounting system acceptable to the Bank; and
*   Have submitted to the Bank the Financial Management part of the Project Operation Manual.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 39 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* An NGO was recruited to strengthen the capacity of the Community Development Unit in their work
with the Local Communities to prepare their Community Action Plans. The Community Action
Plans will provide the basis for preparing the first Annual Work Program and Budget.
* A financial management firm is working with the Financial Management Unit to set in place an
improved financial management system. The firm will elaborate the financial part of the Project
Operation Manual.
* The Procurement part of the Project Operation Manual was elaborated as part of the Appraisal
mission and has been found satisfactory.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O]2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Marie-Helene Collion            Letitia A. Obeng                Mabmood A. Ayub
Team Leader                     Sector Director                  Country Director
40 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Key Performance.    XDat Collectfon Strteify
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicatrs                    -                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rural poverty alleviation. Poverty rates reduced.  MALR Reports and statistics. GOE's strategy for rural
Rural well-being increased.                         development, natural resource
management, and pbverty
alleviation effectively
implemented.
GEF Operational Program:  Outcome I Impact
Indicators:
OP#12: Integrated Ecosystem  Comprehensive regional  Govemorate masterplan and
Management                development plans integrating sectoral development plans
ecological, social and
economic goals developed
Sustainable community
conservation measures for
land & water resources and
biodiversity in place
Output from each Global   Output Indicators:
Component:
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objectve:                 Indicators:
(i) Contnbute to the welfare  - Literacy rates (gender   Reports from the M&E      Local community
of the more disadvantaged     differentiated) (%);       unit of the PCU.          representatives apply the
rural people in Matruh         - Volume of water per     Socio-economic surveys.   criteria and procedures
govemorate.                   capita (m3);                                         agreed upon during
-Daily calorie intake;                              project preparation to
- Off-farm income per                               target the poorest and the
HH (amount); and                                     women for project
- Sick days per capita                             resource allocation.
per day (number).                                    Project management
recruits external
consultants to monitor the
implementation of criteria
to target the poorest.
Global Objective:
(ii) Conserve, rehabilitate and -Vegetation cover (%);  NSC/EEAA reports.      Other relevant stakeholders
sustainably use natural    - Distance to closer perennial M&E Unit of the PCU  willing to participate.
resources, including globally  plant (centimeters);  Reports.                  No extreme drought
significant biodiversity.  - Governorate master plan and Socio-economic surveys.  conditions
-41 -



sectoral plans include
environmental concerns
(Y/N);
- Increased awareness of
environmental issues in range
management and arable
agriculture (Y/N); and
- Improvement in demographic
status of key species and
diversity of habitat (Y/N).
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component A:
Community Development
Sub-component Al:
Capacity-building of        - Local community with  Reports from local community  Local community capacity
communities.                an official status     representative meetings at the  adequate to transfer
(number);              sub-regional and regional     responsibilities for
- Number of activities  levels,                      implementation.
included in the AWPBs  Reports from Sub-regional     Project management unit
and number of activities  support centers.           willing to transfer
implemented (ratio);                                 responsibilities.
- Rules and procedures to
allocate resources among
community members are
(i) written in a local
community document, (ii)
known by community
members, and (iii)
implemented (Y/N).
- Project meetings
attended by sub-regional
level representatives
(number);
- Women activity
registered in Annual
Work Program (number);
- Community events
covered by a radio
(number).
Sub-comnonent A 2:
Improve the general living  -Community teachers per Reports from M&E Unit   Mandoubeen agree to allocate
conditions of women.      LC (number)              Socio-economic surveys.  a percentage of the LC
-Women informed        Reports from Govemorate's resources to women activities.
about the planning     office.
process (in %)
-Women having new
economic activities
(number); and
- LC with trained
- 42 -



midwives (number).
Component B.
Intearated Natural
Resource Manaeement
Protect and enhance water   - Additional volume of  M&E reports               Communities actively involved
resource availability,      underground water       Reports from PCU.        in self-help water harvesting
moderate peak run-off rate,  storage (m3)                                    and watershed management
reduce oil erosion and       - Wadi (number) and                             schemes.
conserve rainwater for      wadi area under cropping
crops.                      (feddans); and
- Area of woody                                 Environmental concerns
biomass increase in wadi                          mainstreamed into
catchment areas (feddans,                         decision-making process of
m3).                                              communities.
Sub-Component B2.
Conserve, rehabilitate and  -PGMs established (number);  M&E reports.        Communities actively involved
sustainably use rangelands.  -Herds and animals involved  Reports from PCU.  in self-help rangeland
in the area under management  Consultant reports.    management and improvement
(number);                                            schemes.
-Frequency of conflicts in
the area under management
(number)
-Time of effective
implementation of the plan in
the area under management
(%); and
-Rate of replenishment of
veterinary pharmacies
revolving funds (%).
Sub-Component B3.
Conserve and improve    -Endangered species protected M&E reports.           -Areas of biological
biodiversity.           (number);                   Reports from BDCU/ PCU. importance delineated by local
- Protected Areas established  flora and fauna surveys.  communities and used as plant
(number);                   Consultant's reports.     source (Hotspots and
- PA management plans       NCS/EEAA reports.         community conservation
agreed with communities                              areas);
(number)                                              -Local communities actively
- Community conservation                             involved in the management of
areas established (number);                           hotspots and community
- Fuelwood used (kilo);                              conservation areas and
undertaking flora and fauna
surveys; and
-Sustainable collection of
seeds, fibers and herbal plants
from hotspots and community
conservation areas.
Comoonent C.
Productive Activities
Development
Sub-Component Cl.
Develop, demonstrate and   -Feddan under improved barley M&E reports.           -Technologies offered to
-43 -



disseminate appropriate     (number);                    Reports from PCU.         farmners adequately address
agricultural and livestock   -Average farmer yields of   Consultant's reports.     their production constraints and
production technologies.    improved barley vs. average                            are economically viable.
farmer yields of traditional                            -Farmers are willing to
varieties (%);                                         experiment with new varieties
-Area under figs of local                              f crops and farming systems
("Sultan") variety and new                              nd take up improved animal
("Turkish") drying variety of                          husbandry techniques.
figs (feddan);                                          -Credit is available if the
-Areas under home gardens                             technology requires up front
(feddans); and                                          nvestments.
-Agriculture, livestock and                             -No extreme drought
veterinary "wukaka" operating                          conditions prevail.
(number).
Project Components I        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                             Outputs)
Sub-Component C2.
Develop off-farm                -Community gross         M&E reports.              Professionals are recruited to
income-generating Activities.   revenue for off-farm      Reports from PCU.        set up the scheme for off-farm
activities (amount);      Consultant's reports.    activities production and
-Producer involved      Community reports.        marketing.
(number);                                          M/H plants domesticated and
-Proportion of HH                                 commercialized.
involved in the                                    Markets and prices provide
community (%);                                      sufficient incentives for
-Local organization                               producers and processors.
created/promoted to run
the business (number);
and
-People involved in
growing medicinal and
herbal plants (number).
Comnonent D
Rural Roads
Sub-Component DI.
Connect the inland areas with  -Length of dirt roads  M&E reports.                Communities actively involved in
the existing main roads to    paved/improved/realigned  Reports from PCU.         self-help road building and road
facilitate access to markets and  (kilometers).         Consultanfs reports.      protection.
reduce transport costs.                                 Reports from communities.  Of road tracts made by all tain
vehicles controlled by local
communities.
CoMnonent E.
Revolvine Fund/Rural
Credit
Sub-Component E.1
Improve rural people access to -Small loans per income group  Bank annual reports.  -Revolving Fund managed by a
credit for income-generating  (number);                  Reports from PCU.         technical service provider,
activities.                  -Total amount lent per income  Consultant's reports.   -Loan requirements/conditons
group (amount);                                         agreed by communities; and
-Repayment rate (%/6); and                             -Loan repayment rate financially
-Small loans related to women                         acceptable.
activities (number).
-44 -



Component F.
Project Management
Sub-Component Fl.
Well-managed project        -Time required to process   Supervision reports.       Communities trained to take on
contracts (days);                                       management responsibilities and
-SOE per year (number);                               increasingly do so.
-Aggregate financial tables                            Procurement unit capacity
available as needed                                    strengthened.
-Audit reports on time and                             Financial management system in
unqualified (Y/N);                                      place and functioning.
-Participation of LC
representative (Y/N);
-Institutional assessment (Y/N).
Component A.
Community Development
(US$8.21 m.)
M&E reports.                Increased quality and quantity
PCU, EEAA and Govemorate of products and marketing
reports.                   initiatives expand income
Consultant's reports.       base.
Improved access enables more
marketing of goods and
services.
Access to funds enables
M&E reports.                individuals and communities
PCU, EEAA and Govemorate to obtain loans for enterprise
reports.                    use.
Consultant's reports.
Procurement and Financial
M&E reports.                management units operate
PCU, EEAA and Govemorate adequately.
reports.
Consultant's reports.
PCU reports.
Community reporting.
Bank reporting.
Loan repayment information.
Progress reports.
-45-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
A. Project Objectives
1.    MRMP I set out to break the cycle of natural resource degradation and poverty. The overarching
goal of MRMP II will be: rural poverty reduction through sustainable, community-driven development
and natural resource management. To achieve this, the specific objectives of the project will be to:
(a)    assist communities, including women and the poor, to organize themselves and
participate in community-based planning and implementation of development activities;
(b)    assist communities to conserve, rehabilitate and sustainably manage the natural resource
base through developing appropriate, community-based institutional processes and
mechanisms;
(c)    improve small holder sustainable agriculture, horticulture and livestock productivity;
(d)    promote market-driven off-farm income generating activities, mainly targeting women;
and
(e)    provide improved access to technical, financial and commercial services.
Within this frarnework of integrated resource management, GEF support is sought to address global
environmental concerns in the day-to-day management of resources, as well as mainstream
environmental dimensions into overall planning and implementation of development activities in the
area.
B. Target Group and Targeting
2.     There are about 22, 000 rural households in the project area, 17,600 of these households are
estimated to be below the poverty line. The poverty line has been defined by under the first project
through a combination of a number of criteria such as number of sheep, access to arable land, number of
cisterns and cash income. Around 9,000 households have already benefited from MRMP I of which
6,700 are below the poverty line. This leaves approximately 11,000 below poverty line households who
have received no assistance. These households will constitute the target group for MRMP In to benefit
from Project investments such as cisterns and dykes, rangeland and livestock improvement measures, etc.
3.     Households above the poverty line will not be eligible for private, household level investments
However, all members of communities will be potential beneficiaries from extension advice and access
to improved technologies arising from adaptive research programs. In addition, all members of
communities will also be considered as potential beneficiaries from community level investments (e.g.
feeder roads, communal range management schemes, social centers, literacy programs, health and
environmental awareness programs, conservation initiatives, etc.).
4.     To ensure targeting of the poor, communities will be responsible for establishing the criteria for
identifying the poor and disadvantaged households within their conmmunity and for selecting
beneficiaries. The eligibility of the selected households will be checked against the Project's database.
5.    In addition to poverty criteria, other specific criteria will apply for the selection of beneficiaries
for cisterns, dykes and rangeland development and improvement. These are as follows:
-46 -



*      Cisterns: the poverty level of the household and the absence of a cistern will be the governing
criteria. An additional criterion will be the main use of the cistern with priority given to domestic needs,
followed by needs for livestock and, for high-value, small-scale agricultural production. It is estimated
that around 8,700 households still do not own a cistern and these will be the priority target group for
cistern construction.
*      Dykes: the poverty level of the household and the absence of a dyke will be the governing
criteria. The potential number of dykes in a wadi will be determined by the overall water balance through
watershed modelling. Those dykes will then be allocated to the poor households (according to local
community criteria agreed upon) who currently do not have access to a dyke. Very poor households may
benefit from both a cistern and a dyke as both may be required in order to make a significant impact on
the earning capacity of the household.
C. Project Implementation Approach
6.     The core concern of MRMP II is achieving sustainability through fostering self-reliance and
promoting community ownership of the development process and strengthening relations with existing
Government institutions and services. A principal objective is to strengthen local community capacity in
order to progressively transfer responsibilities to them. This means that the key features of the
implementation approach to be followed under MRMP II include:
(a)    Giving comrnunities greater responsibility for planning, managing, implementing and monitoring
their own development activities (included the ones implemented by the Project on their behalf) so that
they are better prepared for, and able to carry on the development of their communities on their own
initiative and with their own resources after the completion of the Project;
(b)    Ensuring transparent processes and accountability by close coordination between community
representatives and PCU and a two-level flow of communication between mandoubeen and other
community members;
(c)    Assisting communities at their request, to establish legally-recognized, community-based
organizations able to interface with other govermment agencies after the completion of the Project;
(d)    Aiming for inclusiveness, ensuring that all heads of households in the community have an input
in the decision-making process and are aware of the allocation of resources.
(e)    Promoting a self-help process. The Project will promote the principle that individual household
and community obligations go hand-in-hand with access to Project resources. This will be exercised
through, among other things:
(i)    Genuine contributions from households/communities to infrastructure development, in
the form of voluntary labor and locally-available materials; and
(ii)   Encouraging the formnation of "common interest groups" amongst producers in their
pursuit of common goals through cooperation, mutual assistance and seeking access to
markets.
7.     To achieve this, MRMP II will introduce the following key changes to the participatory planning
process:
-47 -



(a)   An initial participatory planning exercise will be undertaken at the aila (clan) level, facilitated by
the mandoubeen, the Project staff and a local NGO. The objective of the exercise will be for each LC to
come up with a Community Action Plan, which will present the development objectives that the LC
wants to achieve over the course of the Project and the broadly defined activities to be implemented.
Following the CAP, the LC will prepare an Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB) which will detail
the specific activities to be implemented during the first year and their costs. To prepare their AWPB, e
ach Local Community will be assigned an allocation of financial resources on an annual basis by the
Project management, which will form the Local Community Grant for the year. The Local Community
will be responsible for deciding on the allocation of these resources between different activities, based on
a menu of activities eligible for Project financing and in accordance with the technical criteria and
conditions established by the Project for different activities. The only requirement will be that a
minimum percentage of resource allocation (the minimum percentage will be decided in collaboration
with the communities) for women's development activities and environmental conservation activities.
This will be done by each aila.
(b)   Local communities will be encouraged to re-assess their choices of mandoubeen in the light of
the new requirements under MRMP H. This process could be repeated in Year 3 to ensure the
accountability of the mandoubeen to their constituency. However, it is up to the local communities to
replace their mandoub whenever they feel it is needed. They do not have to wait until the next
suggestion is made to them to re-assess their choice;
(c)   The Project's technical teams will provide guidance with regard to the feasible technical
opportunities available, particularly in relation to water harvesting and watershed management
interventions, and crop/livestock-related activities, in order to help the Local Communities make sound
investment decisions;
(d)   Each aila will select the beneficiaries with a requirement to focus on assisting the more
disadvantaged and resource poor households in their unit;
(e)   The Project will ensure that women are an integral part of the planning and decision making
processes through providing women with the same level of information as men through separate
meetings
(f)   The activities and beneficiary selection for each aila will be submitted to a meeting of heads of
households, members of the aila, for approval prior to submission to the Community Group for
aggregation into the Local Community CAP. Separate meetings will be held for men and women;
(g)   The CAPs and their Annual Work Programs and Budgets will be the principal mechanism for
allocating resources to household and community-level investments; and,
(h)   The activities under the decision of the Local Communities will be funded from a line item in the
Project budget, Local Community Grants. Each Local Community will be attributed a share of the funds
available under Local Community Grants budget, based on a number of criteria: the percentage of low
income households in the community, the location of the Local Community (i.e. Zone I, II and m from
North to South), development potentials (i.e whether a road is planned or a watershed development is
feasible), and the amount of previous investments in the Local Community.
D. Project Components
9.    The proposed MRMP II will comprise the following six components and sub-components to be
-48 -



implemented over a six-year period.
A. Community Development
Capacity Building of Communities
Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity
B. Inteerated Natural Resource Management
Land and Water Resource Management
Rangeland Management
Biodiversity Conservation and Environmental Management Plan Implementation
C. Productive Activities Development
Agricultural and Livestock Production Advisory Services
Off-farm Income Generating Activities, Agro-Processing and Marketing
D. Rural Roads
E. Revolving Fund/Rural Micro-finance
F. Project Management
10.   The Project will follow a more flexible, process-oriented and demand-driven approach whereby
the communities will determine their priority activities through a participatory planning process. Hence
the number and types of investments described below are only indicative and should in no way be
considered a blueprint. The investment program will be defined each year through the each LC Annual
Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) which will be the key tool for reflecting the communities' investment
priorities.
A.     Community Development (US$ 8.2 million. GEF Contribution US$ 0.4 million)
11.   Capacity Building of Communities: The project will be implemented through a stronger and
systematic community-driven development process. The participatory approaches initiated under MRMP
I will be deepened in order to: (a) develop effective mechanisms that will involve all members of the
community in decision making, enhance community ownership and (b) enable communities to gain the
skills and experience to seek funding from other local funding agencies (e.g. the Social Fund for
Development, Shuruq Fund, the Govemorate education and health services, etc.) for assistance after the
end of the Project.
12.   To achieve these objectives the project will provide information and training to the local
community representatives (mandoubeen) and other community members. The initial training will focus
on the overall strategy and processes to be followed under MRMP II, the roles and responsibilities of the
mandoubeen and the communities, the criteria and processes for identifying disadvantaged households,
defining the community's development objectives, the processes for establishing development priorities
and prioritizing resource allocation as the basis for the design of the Community Action Plans (CAPs)
and their Annual Work programs. Following the initial training, support to Local Community will be
provided to:
assist the local communities to become legal entities;
acquire negotiating skills and management capacities for their community affairs;
-49 -



*     receive basic training in environmental protection (including range management) and
environmental assessment;
set in place the process for monitoring the implementation of their activities and evaluating the
results; and,
develop their own internal and external information and communication system
13.   Local communities are represented at the Sub-regional Support Center level (2 representatives
per Local Community). The five Local Community Sub-regional committees will each choose two
representatives for the Local Community Regional Committee which in turn, will elect two
representatives to the PCC. These committees are communication and consultation mechanisms for the
Local Communities themselves which enable them to exchange experience and learn from each other. In
addition, the regional level committee has specific functions, as follows: (i) identify implementation
problems and make proposals to solve them; (ii) prepare the Project Coordination Committee; (iii)
organize feedback information to local communities. The additional functions of the Local Community
Sub-regional Committee is to: (i) identify the sub-regional priorities to be discussed with local popular
councils and sectoral services; (ii) identify activities that cut across or show effects across community
boundaries; and (iii) prepare the Local Community Regional Committee. The Project will provide
facilitation to ensure an effective role to the mandoubeen, especially at the PCC level.
14.   The GEF contribution will enable the Project to build community awareness of environmental
concerns, including practical initiatives to involve the communities in the monitoring and recording of
their biodiversity resources, and reflecting resource conservation issues in their respective CAPs. The
GEF contribution will also help the introduction of formal and informal environmental education in
schools and at the 38 community centers.
15.   In addition to the activities described below, a line item in the budget for this component will
provide additional funds for: (i) well-perforning activities in high demand by communities; and (ii)
support local communities new initiatives which were not envisioned at the time of project preparation.
16.   Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity. The project will promote a two-pronged
approach towards strengthening women's involvement in the development process by:
ensuring that women are integrated into the participatory planning and implementation process
(albeit through separate meetings) and soliciting their views on such aspects as: (i) the criteria for
defining the disadvantaged households; (ii) the selection of beneficiary households; and (iii) the
allocation of resources for different activities, particularly communal facilities;
separately addressing the special needs and interests of women and providing them with skills
and means to help them improve their general living condition; and.
Promoting the creation of women's organizations, giving greater recognition to the important
role of women in the household and conmmunity, and gradually giving them greater control of their
own affairs, thereby recognizing that men's full support for gender-related activities is essential (see
Sub-component C.2).
17.   Women will be provided with training in the new participatory planning processes and the role
and responsibilities of mandoubeen, etc. to ensure that they have the same access to information as the
men and to allow them to influence processes through their informal channels.
- 50-



18.    As a key contribution to building women's capacity, the Project will support literacy classes for
women (a 3-year process) and education for girls, with a 5-year program aimed at providing the next
generation with greater opportunities for advancement. To this effect, the Project will support the
construction of up to 23 basic two-room community social centers (15 were constructed during the first
project), with conmmunity contribution and community involvement in management, in order to provide a
venue for literacy classes, training programs, environmental awareness and other community activities.
Ownership of these social centers will be transferred to the communities by the end of the Project. These
centers could act as community information resource centers. Some may, on a pilot basis, be equipped
with appropriate information communications equipment.
19.   The Project will also support nutrition, hygiene and health awareness programs, including
promotion of the construction of latrines, through enlisting the support of the Govemorate's Health and
Education Departments. The GEF contribution will support environmental awareness programs to assist
women in sustainable utilization and management of their community's resource base. It will also
support a survey on energy consumption and kitchen practices to determine if and what interventions are
appropriate to improve the kitchen environment and ensure sustainability of energy supply. Based on the
recommendations of the survey, the project will provide support and subsidies to substitute alternative
energy technologies (e.g., gas/solar cookers) as a means of reducing pressure on wild plant species used
for fuel wood, in addition to improving kitchen environment.
20.    Finally, the Project will assist women to reduce the work load for domestic chores through access
to labor saving assets such as hand pumps, ovens and carts for transport through credit, subsidies, and
women's own contribution.
B.     Integrated Natural Resource Mana2ement (US$ 21.1 million. GEF Contribution US$ 4.0
million)
21.    Land and Water Resource Management. The project will support the implementation of
proven successful water harvesting and storage techniques and infrastructure (underground
cistems/reservoirs and various types of dykes for water and soil retention in the wadis and watershed
areas) integrated within an overall strategy of watershed management and using implementation
procedures developed under the on-going project.
22.     Watershed management may require the involvement of several communities having rights
within the same watershed, in the design and implementation of sustainable watershed management plans
taking into consideration the nature of the available shared resources, the different land use systems, the
communities' diverse needs for water, and reducing, or resolving potential conflicts amongst users.
Planning will involve the communities, prior to preparation of CAPs and will start with the identification,
screening and prioritizing the potential water resources and boundaries of watersheds to determine
optimum land use planning. The Land and Water Resource Management Unit will insure that the
interventions are not in conflict with sustainable and efficient natural resources management.
23.    The maintenance of all water harvesting structures will be the responsibility of the beneficiaries
for investments on private land while the beneficiaries will be jointly responsible for the maintenance of
the interventions in wadi and communal lands.The responsibility of the beneficiaries regarding
maintenance will be discussed at length during CAP preparation. For wadi development planning and
dyke maintenance, the project will assist in the formation of Watershed Management Associations
(WMA) comprising all the households who are on a particular watershed. The beneficiaries will be
trained to check their structures prior to rainy season and carry out any necessary maintenance according
- 51 -



to the Water Harvesting Operation and Maintenance Manual. The Project will prepare this manual, a
user-friendly manual, written in Arabic and giving procedures and instructions on the maintenance of
project interventions in soil and water management. In addition, the Project will establish a small O&M
unit to provide technical assistance and basic equipment support to communities to deal with
emergencies resulting from flooding events. Watershed Management Associations will be encouraged to
set up a maintenance and emergency repair fund.
24.     With GEF funding, protection of the upper catchment areas will continue to be promoted
through micro-catchment water harvesting measures, and the seeding or plantation of vegetative cover
against wind and water erosion, such as shelterbelts. These will also serve to increase the biomass
content and contribute towards carbon sequestration in the area. GEF funding will also support adaptive
research, assisted by international and local TA, to establish water run-off coefficients and to investigate
water utilization techniques.
25.    Rangeland Management. During the implementation of MRMP I, assistance to livestock
producers seeking to reduce their heavy dependence on the use of concentrates and purchased feed for
their flocks largely consisted in establishing World Food Program-designed and funded Selected Range
Management Areas. While these provided some temporary relief to individual owners and family
groups, they were costly and reached only a relatively small number of better-off producers in the
better-endowed areas. However, the underlying causes of resource degradation remained untackled.
Range degradation occurs because in the open range, animals remain permanently on top of the
vegetation, preventing shrubs and grasses (especially the most palatable ones) to rest and grow. In the
past, this was avoided by traditional grazing patterns when herds would move constantly over large
stretches of land, providing plants enough time to recover. Such practices have now disappeared, due to
the shrinkage of pastoral land and restrictions on the movements of herds, a result of various factors.
26.   In response to this, MRMP II will develop a strategy for the sustained use of the communal
resources, based on a community-managed approach to rangeland rehabilitation and utilization. Such an
approach will entail the establishment of pilot grazing management units (PGMUs) managing the
vegetation as well as the animals. The underlying principle of this grazing management approach is to
simulate the large herd movements of the past by dividing the land under management into several plots
which animals graze one after the other, allowing the plants enough time to recover. All features of such
schemes (size, number of participants, grazing calendar, etc.) are left to the decision of the group,
according to the state of degradation of their land, social constraints, and their experience and managerial
ability.
27.    With GEF funding, these interventions will be supported by adaptive research and extension on
assessing/monitoring the rangeland resources, germ plasm resource enhancement; evaluation of
rangeland restoration technologies and on advising producers on the best use of planted fodder shrubs.
Research will help establish optimal length of time that major rangeland plants require for their
regeneration under different climatic conditions. This data is essential for grazing management planning.
Four Protected Plots will be established to provide in situ source of germ plasm from desirable perennial
range plant species which have little opportunity to produce seed under present grazing conditions. This
will be closely coordinated with the work on biodiversity conservation, so that combined benefits serving
global objectives can be monitored and replicated.
28.    Range Rehabilitation and Improvement Associations, regrouping representatives of the ailaat
engaged in range rehabilitation, will be established at the SRSC level. Their role will be to monitor the
range rehabilitation systems established and to promote and assist other communities to establish similar
-52-



procedures in order to have a wider impact on rehabilitation of the rangeland.
29.    Biodiversity Conservation and Environmental Management Plan Implementation. This
sub-component will be funded through GEF grant financing. It represents an enhanced focus on
biodiversity conservation and environmental management under MRMP II. It will be implemented under
an integrated approach:
*   Integrating environmental education into community capacity building activities (Component A);
*   Enhancing the local-level capacity to undertake cross-sectoral planning and management
(sub-component B.3);
*   Integrating biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem management concepts into range and
water management activities with the communities (sub-component B. I and B.2);
30.    Two main sets of activities will specifically contribute towards biodiversity conservation in the
area. First, the Project will work with the communities and other stakeholders to; (i) increase their
knowledge and awareness of biodiversity conservation; (ii) assess energy use practices and support
altemative sustainable energy sources for household purposes; (iii) integrate biodiversity concepts into
range and water management activities (through community range management, and protection of
watersheds against soil and water erosion); (iv) create community managed biodiversity hotspots,
monitor and update the record on the status of biodiversity in the area; (v) develop strategies for
enhancing eco-tourism based on community involvement and conservation concepts; (vi) and, build
national capacity and a replication strategy for the implementation of integrated ecosystem management
approaches. In addition, the local level capacity for environmental monitoring and planning will be
strengthened through the funding of staff and equipment and the provision of training on environmental
matters, including resource inventory and evaluation; environmental assessment, multi-disciplinary
resource management, socio-economic surveying; species monitoring and evaluation; protected area
management; and participatory training on specific environmental issues.
31.    Second, the project will assist the GOE in the establishment and management of two Protected
Areas (PAs): El Qasr and Saloum. Management of the Protected Areas will integrate local populations
into Protected Area development plans and their implementation. These plans will include activities
promoting biodiversity conservation, eco-tourism and rangeland management. In addition, provisions will
be made for altemative income generating activities in case of any potential loss or restriction of access
to resources following the establishment of the Protected Areas management plans. These can include
additional off-farm income generating activities and payment for targeted community conservation
mechanisms for potentially affected beneficiaries to be funded through the Local Community grants.
Visitors centers will also be constructed for public education programs and staff recruited to manage the
Protected Areas.
32.    Finally, the Sub-component will implement the Environmental Management Plan (see Annex
14). The EMP identifies the environmental mitigation measures, screening process, capacity-building
and monitoring activities that will be undertaken during Project implementation to ensure that any
potential adverse environmental impacts are either eliminated or minimized. The Sub-component will be
under the technical authority of EEAA/NCS as the Government body responsible for and with strong
community-based experience in biodiversity conservation and environmental protection in Egypt.
C.     Productive Activities Development (US$ 5.0 million. GEF Contribution US$ 0.8 million)
33.    Agricultural and Livestock Services. Overall Strategy. The principal focus of this
- 53 -



sub-component, comprising adaptive research and extension-related activities, is the dissemination and
active promotion of those technologies already developed under MIRMP I and that have not, as yet,
reached producers within the recommendation domain(s) for which they were developed. This will aim
at closing the gap in productivity between the best producers and the average and poorer performing
farmers. Such an approach offers the most cost-effective way in utilizing available technology to advance
poverty alleviation, enhance income and assure resilience of family livelihoods. However, continued
refinement in the definition and delineation of recommendation domains, in terms of their physical and
socio-economic dimensions, and economic evaluation of improved practices and technologies developed
by adaptive research programs (of MARC and others) will be needed to ensure that technically suitable
and economically feasible technologies are available to producers and livestock owners in the more
marginal areas. In addition to this increased emphasis on less endowed zones and households, the close
collaboration between adaptive research and extension, the on-farm nature of research, and increasing
importance of collaborative research programs that characterized technology generation and
dissemination under MRMP I will continue.
34.    Extension Stratev. Accordingly, during Phase II, there will be greater emphasis on extension,
with more farmer involvement and a new community-based extension outreach effort through the training
of Community Technical Contact Person (wakil/wukala)in each of the 38 Local Communities. These
facilitators will be chosen by community members with guidance from the Project staff. They will serve
as resource persons to handle the most common farming advisory and training demands likely to emerge
from the farming systems in their particular locality. When they are unable to provide the solutions
themselves, they will, in response to farmer demand, liaise with their Sub-Regional Support Center and
headquarters for technical support.
35.    On-farm demonstrations will continue to play a key role, with their content determined by the
concerns and interests of the producers. Innovators, as well as heads of households receiving free inputs
for demonstrations, or benefiting from study tours will be requested to act as resource persons within
their community. Grant assistance will be available to the poorest households for investments, such as,
the planting of fodder shrubs in barley, or the provision of shrub and tree seedlings where such would be
a feasible and a technically sound use of resources, e.g. as a measure to protect the soil against water or
wind erosion, or to improve their feed resources.
36.    Adaptive Research. Extension staff will be supported by, and work closely with, the researchers
from the Matruh Adaptive Research Center. Main topics to be emphasized in adaptive research programs
will deal with:
*   for field  crops - improved, drought-tolerant and high-yielding, smut-resistant barley varneties-,
including work with naked barley varieties (to partly substitute for wheat flower in bread making),
improved systems of cultivation (including water harvesting and minimum tillage); improving the
grazing value of barley stubble (e.g., by inter-cropping of barley with native Atriplex, undersowing
of barley with legumes), work on small-scale home gardens, and seed multiplication;
*   for tree crops (fiLs and oli)s) and horticulture (including rehabilitating unproductive orchards,
improved husbandry practices,- disseminating and monitoring on-farm performance of new (drying
fig) varieties, post-harvest handling and technologies (including on-farm, simple ("appropriate") fig
drying and packing technologies, improving oil content and olive oil quality), improved water melon
cultivars and varieties. In collaboration with the Biodiversity and the Strengthening of Women
Capacity sub-components, research will identify promising medicinal and aromatic native plants, and
develop on-station multiplication and domestication methods that could subsequently be adopted by
women on small in-situ plots under local conditions. The focus will be on those species for which a
- 54 -



market will have been identified.
*   for livestock production. Assistance to farmers will focus on how to increase the productivity of
their flocks, by increasing their nutrition, genetic characteristics and health. The emphasis will be on
creating less dependence on concentrates by improving the quality and productivity of the
rangelands, by making full use of crop by-products, herd management and breeding practices (e.g.,
synchronized breeding, weaning practices), lamb fattening schemes. Livestock productivity
interventions will also include further extending the ram exchange and goat genetic improvement
programs Improvements in animal nutrition will be promoted through the demonstration of feed
blocks, urea treated straw and mineral blocks. Work in collaboration with the Strengthening of
Women Capacities Sub-component will focus on improved husbandry practices and production
systems for poultry, turkeys and pigeons.
37.    Off-farm Income Generating Activities. There is a strong national and even intemational
demand for a series of products such as dry figs, pickled olives and shelled almonds (the bulk of Matruh
horticultural crops) as well as for aromatic and medicinal plants. As to handicraft products (traditional
Bedouin kilims), the lack of awareness of the cultural and economic value of these traditional skills and
the social constraints that restrict women mobility prevented the marketing of these products. In
addition, the demand exists but the quality and design of the products must be adapted to the market
requirements. There are five potential market segments for Bedouin handicraft products: (a) local tourism
in Marsa Matruh, including potential development of eco-tourism, (b) Cairo market, (c) intemational
tourism in Egypt, (d) export market, (e) corporate initiatives (i.e. hotels, etc.).
38.    The objective of this component is to increase and diversify rural household income through the
development of: (a) household or cottage food-processing; and (b) traditional Bedouin handicrafts. The
component will be market driven, building upon Bedouin resources, skills and organization, and taking
into account women socio-economic environment and their life-style priorities. It will focus on:
*   providing access to market information (quality, prices, market locations, transportation and
conditions of market entry);
*   improving the quality of products (agricultural or handicrafts), for which there is a market;
*   facilitate provision of inputs for producers;
*   ensure the regular sale of the end products; and
*   promote community-based and economically viable organizations that will ensure the sustainable
development of these off-farm income generating activities after Project completion.
39.    The development of both handicraft and household/cottage agro-processing requires strong
market linkages. Products should correspond to market requirements which implies a market driven
quality control and an efficient marketing organization, ensuring that buyers regularly purchase products,
with payment rewarding the quality and innovative skills of producers. However, such an organization
must also respect and take into account Bedouin women traditions and socio-economic constraints. The
implementation of this sub-component will therefore be sub-contracted to community marketing
professionals. These professionals will have to:
*   develop an economically sound and sustainable production and marketing operation that should
reach a break-even point within three or four years,
*   promote and train local community-based organizations that will be able to manage the operation
when the break-even point will be reached. These community-based organizations will be gender
specific (i.e. women organizations for specific women activities).
- 55 -



40.    The community marketing professionals will be responsible for: (a) the provision of expertise,
(b) the recruitment and training of local people who will participate in the operation, (c) the management
of the operation until the break-even point is reached and the operation handed over to local
community-based organization(s); and (d) technical assistance to these organization(s), declining in
intensity over time, to help them run the operation.
41.    These professionals will locally recruit and train three types of personnel:
* a community contact person at Local Community level (at least one per Local Community), who
ensure: (a) quality control, (b) organization of the provision of inputs to producers when necessary,
(c) provision of market information including quality and price, (d) simple accounting to register
payments made to producers and orders received.
*   a coordinator at district/SRSCs level to support the community contact persons. The coordinator
will: (a) organize input supply to community producers, (b) facilitate the marketing, (c) communicate
with Matruh unit to organize the technical support, (d) aggregate orders, etc.
* a technical unit at Matruh govemorate level, to run the operation until the break even point is
reached. This unit will include: a manager, a food technologist, a marketing specialist, a production
officer and a purchase officer. When the break even point is reached and community-based
organizations have been created, this unit could: (i) either be taken over and paid by the
community-based organizations to continue its work or (ii) be responsible to transfer and train
managers of the community-based organizations to continue the operation.
42.   In addition to food processing and handicrafts, with GEF funding, the Project will investigate the
scope for developing a medicinal plant activity in the Project area based on the domestication of
indigenous plants, which are in high demand. The Project will support research into propagation
techniques and market investigation and marketing tests once the domestication of these plants is
guaranteed. The Project will call on the experience of another GEF "Medical Plants" project at St.
Katherine's Protectorate in Sinai.
D.    Rural Road (US$ 4.0 million)
43.    The objective of the Rural Roads component is to connect the coastal zones and the inland areas
with the existing network of roads to ensure ease of access and reduced transportation cost, improve the
social and economic standard of living of the scattered Bedouin population. The project will surface 135
kms of unpaved feeder roads. Six of them (for a total of about 100 km) have already identified by the
communities and the PCU, as part of an overall program of 300 km of feeder roads, 200 km of which
have been implemented with the World Food Program. It will also give advice on the alignment of new
roads and their protection against erosion (use of techniques to bind the soil and prevent drifting). As
under the World Food Program, the communities will participate in road construction through the
gathering and stockpiling of stones along the side of the road, for the contractor to use. The purpose is
provide the communities with an additional source of income and build a sense of ownership for later
maintenance. The local communities will be trained for basic and simple maintenance. The roads will
be handed over to the Road Works Department after completion.
44.    The roads that have been identified are the following:
- 56 -



(i)    El- Dawaya Link Road: This is in the Negila SRSC area, serving Communities number 4
and 6 with 76 Ailaat. The road is 9.8 km long with an average length of about 130 meters
per family served;
(ii)   Abu-Harera Service Road: This is in the Barrani East SRSC area, serving community
number 5 with 183 families. The road is 19.2 km long with an average length about 105
meters per family served;
(iii)  M. Abu-Zariba Service Road: In the Barrani West SRSC area, serving community
number 13 with 392 families. The road is 17 km long with an average length of about 45
meters per family served;
(iv)  H. Um-el Jawabi Service Road: In the Barani West SRSC area, serving community
number 9 with 300 families. The road is 24 km long with an average length of about 80
meters per family served;
(v)   Baqbaq Service Road: In the Barani West SRSC area, serving community number 12
with 191 families. The road is 21 km long with an average length of about 110 meters
per family served; and
(vi)  El-Aziza Service Road: In the Barani West SRSC area, serving community number 10
with 150 families. The road is 9 km long with an average length of about 60 meters per
family served.
45.    The cost estimates for the roads were based on actual tender prices for recently constructed roads
in the project area. The annual operation and maintenance cost for the roads during the project
implementation period has furthermore been estimated at about the equivalent of 2% of the investment
cost giving about US$ 550 per km per year.
E.   Rural Micro-finance/Revolvin2 Fund (US$ 3.6 million)
46.    The objective of the sub-component will be to provide access to credit in kind for
income-generating activities, specifically targeting women and poor/marginal people. A micro-finance
scheme will be piloted to respond to the specificity of the Bedouin population regarding credit. In
particular, credit should be delivered in kind, not in cash. It should reach home-bound Bedouin women
and marginal/poor people at their door step. No interest or default penalties should be charged, for
religious reasons; however, management fees can be charged, and, instead of default penalties, there can
be incentives for repaying on time. Finally, because there is no formal land ownership, and little other
physical collateral, other ways to guarantee repayment have to be identified.
47.    Considering these constraints, and because there is no micro-finance institution in the Project
area, a professional technical assistance company will be recruited during a pilot phase to develop a
credit retailing system. The TA company will recruit credit retailing officers, train them and supervise
them. Three Credit Officers will be posted in each SRSCs to work closely with project staff, benefiting
from their knowledge of the area and of the people.
48.    The proposed credit mechanism will entail the following actors:
*   The project staff, to introduce the credit officer to local communities members, help identify
credit-worthy beneficiaries, guarantee that the activity for which the money is borrowed is sound,
and provide technical advice to the beneficiary if needed.
*   Credit officers to establish mobile credit branches, working from the SRSCs.
*   The local communities representatives to guarantee credit-worthy and eligible borrowers from their
- 57 -



community;
*   Local traders (wholesalers) and/or market agents to deliver the equivalent of the approved loan to the
borrowers in kind. These traders can also be used as guarantee since they have an excellent
knowledge of their customers.
*   The beneficiaries, who will receive the loan in kind from the local trader and repay the credit
officers.
*   A Manager in Marsa Matruh. S/He supervises the credit officers and manages the revolving fund on
behalf of the Project according to a business plan approved by a Board of Trustees of the revolving
fund.
*   An Account, opened in a commercial bank for the revolving fund. The commercial bank keeps
accounts and releases funds corresponding to the loans, to the local traders or market agents against a
check signed by the Financial management unit of the PCU. Traders or local merchants receive their
payment upon presentation of an invoice signed by the borrower and the credit officer certifying that
the goods corresponding to the sub-loan have been received.
*   The Board of Trustees of the revolving fund undertakes the overall planning and allocation of funds,
evaluates implementation, approves necessary modifications to the system and ensures the overall
follow up of the whole activity.
*   A contingency fund kept under a separate account to help the beneficiaries repay the loan in the
event of death or natural disasters.
*   The PCU procurement staff for small goods is in charge of identifying and negotiating supplier
contracts on a competitive basis with local traders or market agents using local shopping procedures.
49.    Credit will thus be delivered in kind under a tripartite sub-loan agreement involving the
borrower, the credit officer and the trader or retailer. The sub-loans will be small (up to approximately
$US 2000 per individual or group) and will have to enhance the productive activities of the borrower.
Because of generally adverse physical and environmental conditions, any credit activity for agricultural
production will be subject to rigorous scrutiny in order to protect the economically weak. Credit for
animal feed, except for sheep-fattening micro-operations, will be excluded to deter any potential increase
in livestock numbers. Agricultural activities will also be reviewed for potential adverse environmental
effects.
50.    The borrowers will repay the sub-loan to the credit officers who will in turn deposit the amount
repaid into the revolving fund account, after deducting therefrom the management fees. The
management fees will be deposited in a separate account to contribute to the establishment of a guarantee
or insurance fund against repayment default. The management fees will be calculated to cover the
estimated operating costs of the scheme at the break-even point, including a life insurance and provision
for default guarantee, but excluding the cost of capital.
51.    The objective will be to reach a break-even point within three to four years while the scheme is
still under the management of the Technical Assistance Company. It is expected that during that time it
will be possible for the credit officers to form an NGO or cooperative to set a micro-finance institution
and continue the process, or attract a commercial bank to mainstream the scheme.
- 58 -



F.     Proiect Manaeement (US$ 2.9 million)
52.    The Project will fund the necessary contractual staff, premises, equipment, vehicles, staff
development, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation systems for efficient and effective
management of the Project. A line item in the budget will be used to explore the scope and feasibility for
extending participatory approaches introduced under MRMP to other areas in the Govemorate (Siwa) or
rainfed areas in Egypt or through commissioning special studies, for assessment visits to these areas by
key Project staff for interaction with the local government, communities, etc. and if significant
opportunities are found, financing pilot initiatives.
G.     Cross-cuttinE Activity: Information and Communication
53.    An Information and Communication Unit (ICU) will be established within the PCU. It will have
the dual role of coordinating all information and communication support activities in project management
and service delivery to the communities; as well as fostering community development directly by
improving their access to high quality and needs-oriented information and communication services.
54.    The ICU will be a self-standing unit, headed by a director reporting to the DG and DDG. It will
consist of: (i) a central ICU with headquarters staff providing support to all other sector units and
locations (SRSCs and MARC), and (ii) field information and communication officers at all five SRSCs
and MARC to support access to information and knowledge by SRSC staff and community members.
Local and HQ-ICU activities will further be supported by a communication advisor.
55.    The ICU at the PCU will hold a central budget for equipment and services required for special
applications (e.g. extension videos, report scanning), project-internal networking, information/database
management, and external connectivity (Internet access) as well as for facilities to provide professional
staff and community members with improved access to information (local ICUs and mobile units). Each
unit will hold a budget for PCs, extension material /outreach activities, and telecommunication. Sector
and local units will request for services provided by the ICU. The services will be charged to their
budgets.
56.    Activities supported by the ICU will comprise the following fields of intervention: (a) upgrade
project-internal communication and information access, knowledge sharing, and coordination of outreach
activities; (b) improve the communities' access to information and communication services through
public information units in the Sub-Regional Support Centers and through mobile extension and outreach
units; (c) improve broad dissemination of key extension messages and support awareness raising
campaigns through an intensification of the existing partnership with the local radio station; (d) improve
availability and quality of contents.
By Component:
Project Component I - USS million
- 59 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
The total cost of the project over six years, estimated at 2001 prices, including contingencies, taxes and
duties, but excluding the 1% front-end fees (US$0.123), is estimated at LE 199 million (US$44.8
million), of which US$8.0 million or 17.9 percent of total project cost will be in foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies have been applied at a rate of 10% on civil works, civil works maintenance and
vehicle operation and maintenance; 5% on vehicles, equipment and materials; and 2% on building
maintenance. On this basis, physical contingencies represent about 5.0% of total base costs. Price
contingencies for local costs are based on the annual domestic inflation rate estimated at 4% for the
implementation period, and for foreign costs on the projected average G-5 MUV Index of 2.2% per year.
In addition, an annual nominal wage increase of 10% was used. The base exchange rate for this analysis
has been set at LE 4.25 to US$1.0. A constant purchasing power exchange rate mechanism was used to
reflect the difference between local and foreign inflation, resulting in projected exchange rates of 4.3,
4.4, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 LE to US$1.0 for the five project years. Estimates for taxes and foreign exchange
contents have been calculated as weighted averages for each expenditure category based on estimates for
constituent parts for groups of cost items. The estimated project cost are summarized in Table 3-1.
Table 3-1: Summary of project cost by component
Local.   Forein     Tota    % of total
USS million US$ nmllion US$ million base cost
A. Community Development
1. Capacity Building of Communities         3.07      0.64      3.72       9
. Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity  3.01  0.89    3.90       10
Subtotal Community Development              6.08      1.54      7.62       19
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
1. Land and Water Resource Management       11.96     1.48      13.44     33
2. Rangeland Management                     1.02      0.66      1.68       4
3. Biodiversty Conservation                 1.81      1.51      3.32       8
Subtotal Integrated Natural Resource Management  14.80  3.64    18.44     46
C. Productive Activities Development
1. Agriculture and Livestock Services       2.64      0.62      3.26       8
2. Off-farm Income Activities               1.26      0.11      1.37       3
Subtotal Support fbr Income Generating Activities  3.90  0.73   4.63      11
D. Rural Roads                              2.90      0.52      3.42       8
E. Revolving Fund / Rural Micro-Finance     3.48      0.12      3.60       9
F. Project Management                       2.01      0.73      2.74       7
Total BASELINE COSTS                        33.17     7.28     40.45      100
Physical Contingencies                      1.72      0.32      2.04       5
Price Contingencies                         1.93      0.41      2.35       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                         36.82     8.01     44.84      111
Total project costs do not include the 1% front-end fees.
-60 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
1.    Introduction
Development objective. The Second Matruh Resource Management Project (MRMP II) aims at reducing
rural poverty in the North West Coastal Zone (NWCZ) of Egypt through improved natural resource
management and sustainable community-driven development. It will build on technologies and
approaches successfully developed and implemented in the preceding Matruh Resource Management
Project (MRMP). MRMP II will continue community investment in integrated natural resource
management, such as water harvesting, watershed management, rangeland management, and bio-diversity
conservation. It will further continue to build the communities' development capacities with a particular
focus on women; it will support income generating activities in livestock, crop production, off-farm
activities, processing and marketing through direct advice, improved knowledge transfer mechanisms,
and a small revolving fund; and it will improve rural access by financing a limited amount of rural roads.
The project will be implemented over a period of six years with expected effectiveness in 2003.
Targeting the poor. Under the preceding MRMP, about 20,000 households have registered to be
considered for project activities, out of which 58% have benefited from the ongoing project; and an
additional 2,000 households are expected to register for phase II. Since the population of the rural NWC
zone is one of the poorest and most deprived in Egypt, and due to the project's integrated approach based
on watersheds and traditional social structures, MRMP II will potentially target all 22,000 households in
the project area. However, based on criteria determined by the communities, the project will allocate its
resources with priority to the poorer segments of the target population. Besides general poverty criteria,
the lack and intended use of infrastructure, deprivation of services, and technical feasibility will guide
resource allocation with strong community participation. For example, 46% of registered households still
lack their own cistems for domestic use. And with respect to access to educational and health services,
women and girls are particularly deprived.
Benefits. The target population in the project area will benefit from increased income and income
security, and improved living conditions through increased and more reliable water availability through
water harvesting and storage and watershed management; better farm technology, practices and inputs,
and mechanisms to disseminate them; increased diversity of production; better range management;
greater empowerment and human capacity development of communities, and improved access to markets
and social services. In addition, substantial positive environmental effects of significance at the local and
global levels are expected to occur and to indirectly contribute to a better livelihood of these populations.
- 61 -



Table 1:    Farm models and extent of agricultural activities
Tpe of farm    Activities  -   Unit- Qantity       Characteristics of "with project" alternative
I Barley and     Sheep and goats  head    15    * Intensification of barley/livestock systems using
Livestock      Barley         feddan    1     cultivars, tillage, fertilizers, fodder shrubs and supplemental
- smaf                            a           irrigation for tree crops
2 Barley and                                    * No increase in area under crop
livestock ')                                  * Better animal productivity with same animal number
- larger       Sheep and goats  head    50    e Use of any additional water for livestock and agriculture
(human need is already satisfied)
* Fodder shrub plantation as inputs for livestock
Barley         feddan    20
3 Tree, barley and Sheep and goats  head  15    * Intensification of barley/livestock systems using
livestock      Barley         feddan    10    cultivars, tillage, fertilizers, fodder shrubs and supplemental
- small        Figs           feddan    1.5  irrigation for tree crops
Olives         feddan    0.5   * Improvements through pruning, use of manure,
Vegetables  feddan  0.4  fertilizer, pesticide, irrigation
Vegetables     fieddan   0-4   *  Construction of dykes to support the whole area under
4 Tree, barley and Sheep and goats  head  50    orchards
livestock      Barley         feddan    20    * No increase in area under crop
- larger                                      * Better animal productivity with same animal number
feddan    3
Figs                           * Use of any additional water for livestock and agriculture
feddan    I     (human need is already satisfied)
Olives                         * Fodder shrub plantation as inputs for livestock
Vegetables     feddan   0.75
5 New plantation                                * Intensification of barley/livestock systems using
and livestock ') Sheep and goats  head  15    cultivars, tilUage, fertilizers, fodder shrubs and supplemental
- small                                      irrigation for tree crops
Barley         feddan    10    * Planting of new trees in area supported by dykes; small
Figs 2)        feddan     I    increase in area under crop
Olives 2)      feddan     I    * Better animal productivity with same animal number
6 New plantation                                * Use of any additional water for livestock and agriculture
and livestock I) Sheep and goats  head  50   (human need is already satisfied)
- larger                                      * Fodder shrub plantation as inputs for livestock
Barley         feddan    20
Figs 2)        feddan     2
Olives 2)      feddan     2
' Flock composition: 70% sheep and 30% goats.
2) No trees in "without project" models of farm model #5 and #6.
Economic analysis approach. The economic analysis presents a calculation of incremental benefits and
costs caused by the project ("with project") in comparison to a situation "without project" which takes
into account the development that is expected to take place without project intervention. The project's
main objective is to improve the livelihoods, and in particular the income, of rural households which
derive about 75% of their income from agricultural activities including livestock production. The project
allocates a large part of its resources to activities directly related to agriculture and to a number of
activities with indirect benefits difficult to quantify (such as community capacity building and
- 62 -



biodiversity conservation). The project's profitability is therefore calculated based on the inherent
agricultural production systems and farm-household models. Financial and economic analyses are
conducted to evaluate the project's profitability from a farmer's point of view and to take into account the
opportunity costs of resources for the entire country, respectively. Especially in the case of public goods,
such as agricultural extension, the financial prices (i.e. what the farmers actually pay) differ from their
cost to the society at large.
2.     Farm models and budgets for agricultural activities
General model description and quantification of benefits. The economic analysis of the project is based
on six representative farm models that combine both crop budgets (barley, figs, olives, watermelon and
fodder shrub plantation) and livestock activity models (sheep and goats weaning and fattening) and
reflect two farm sizes: a small farrn of 10 feddan and 15 heads of sheep and goats, and a larger farm of 20
feddan and 50 heads of sheep and goats (Table 1). As presented in Table 1, the "with project" altemative
comprises the use of improved water harvesting techniques Dykes established under the project will
improve water infiltration and storage capacity, hence reduce to zero the need for supplemental irrigation
using truck-delivered water, thus reducing production cost. They will further increase crop and livestock
productivity due to an increased water availability. Cisterns will satisfy human and animal consumption
needs. through cisterns, stone and earth dikes; improved seed varieties and agricultural practices; better
feed quality from leguminous and fodder shrub plantations and increased water availability; and reduced
soil erosion While soil erosion is assumed to cause production to cease over a period of 20 years in
existing orchards without dyke support, this yield decline will not occur in the "with project"
altemative.). These project outputs will result in a higher crop and livestock productivity, quantified as
the incremental net farm income.
Yields and risk in rainfed crop production. Rainfall probabilities, based on a 50-year time series, and
yield response to rainfall variation are used to account for the risk associated with rainfed agriculture.
Table 2 shows the different yield levels and yield increases of improved technology in response to
different rainfall scenarios for barley, olives, and figs. This rainfall variability in association with a low
general income level and hence a limited financing capacity is responsible for the significant risk
aversion of small farmers and the resulting cautious adoption of agricultural technologies. To take this
risk aversion into account and hence increase the possibilities for adoption by small farmers, the crop and
livestock models of the "with project" altemative will require only very limited investment and additional
operational cost in cash.
- 63 -



Table 2:    Yield-rainfall-technology relationship for barley, figs, and olives.
#iinfall scenario')  b iProbability of  Yield response')         Yield (kg/fd)
'rainfall scenario               Present Technolog  Improved Technology3u
Barley
Poor                   41.5%           108%                260                    281
Medium                 37.7%           125%                320                    400
Good                   20.8%           137%                380                    521
Weighted average                                           308                    376
Olives
Poor                   41.5%           127%                550                    699
Medium                 37.7%           150%               1600                   2400
Good                   20.8%           164%               2200                   3608
Weighted average                                          1289                   1944
Figs
Poor                   41.5%           143%                700                   1001
Medium                 37.7%           159%               2200                   3498
Good                   20.8%           174%               3400                   5916
Weighted average                                          1826                   2963
1) Rainfall classification: poor: 60 - 110 mm/a; average: 110-200 mm/a; good: 200 - 300 mm/a. Rainfall data fiom years 1975 -
2000.
2) Estimated by MARC research staff
3) The improved technology includes agricultural improvernents as well as the construction of water harvesting measures.
Costs at farm level. The costs included in the farm models comprise: operational costs of production for
crop and livestock activities presented in the crop and livestock activity models; decreasing yields due to
soil erosion in the "without project" situation; supplemental irrigation for orchards, accounted for in the
"without project" situation at a rate of 30 m3/fd (these costs becomes zero in year 3 of the "with project"
situation, following the construction of dykes); and on-farm investment costs for orchards plantation,
water harvesting measures (cisterns and dykes), small contour walls for barley, fodder shrub plantations
and animal sheds. On-farm investments are assumed to be carried out mainly with family labor (except
for cisterns and dykes that requires skilled hired labor) during the first years of the project.
Financial prices. The farm level analysis uses financial prices. All financial prices are based upon
2000-2001 average estimates. Where necessary, market price estimates have been adjusted by transport
and handling margins to arrive at farm-gate prices. For the purpose of the analysis, constant prices have
been used, and it has been assumed that there will be no changes in relative prices over the life of the
project. High and low quality prices, reflecting market conditions, have been introduced for olives and
figs (low quality price equaling 70% of high quality price in both cases). In the case of the farmers
contribution for water harvesting structures and fodder shrub plantation, labor has been valued at current
wages to reflect the fact that producers generally have to hire skilled labor for the excavation and
construction works.
Cost-benefit analysis. Adoption of the proposed resource management improvements, the farmers'
participation in project activities, and their contribution in cash or kind depend on the financial
- 64 -



attractiveness of these activities at the decision and implementation level, the farm-household. Table 3
shows the internal rates of return (IRR) of a cost / benefit analysis with financial prices at farm level
under several rainfall scenarios. The rainfall scenarios "poor" and "high" apply the same rainfall category
throughout the entire project life and can thus be interpreted as the respective minimum or maximum rate
of return for the six farm models.
Table 3:   Profitability of proposed resource management improvement at farm level,
financial prices
Financial [RR (%)                        Rainfall isceuarl'o(comp.. Table   2) -.
Type of Farm                     - . --; Poor . Medium ! '..E r igh.. 'Welghteid;Aerage
I Barley and Livestock - small    28.3        38.9       48.2         36.9
2 Barley and livestock - larger    21.7       29.2       35.9         27.8
3 Tree, barley and livestock - small  46.9    73.6       90.6         70.1
4 Tree, barley and livestock - larger  43.6   68.9       85.2         65.5
5 New plantation and livestock - small  14.8  38.2       49.2         34.6
6 New plantation and livestock - larger  15.4  37.5      48.2         34.0
By year 20 after the start of project implementation, the farm income will have increased by 30%, 26%,
70%, 59%, 109% and 83% in the six farm models with weighted averages, respectively, compared to the
income situation in the "without project" alternative.
In general, the proposed resource management improvements show good financial returns in all farm
models. As expected, the farm model combining trees, annual crops and livestock shows the highest
returns and the least vulnerability with regard to climatic conditions. Only under persistent drought
conditions and only in the case of new orchards, farmers will get close to risking financial losses if they
adopted the proposed innovations. But even if the long-term prospects are promising, farmers might
reduce risk by minimizing capital expenses for on-farm investments after an increasingly frequent
experience of droughts. In this respect, the cost of on-farm investment under the project might appear
rather high. For example, under average rainfall conditions, the total cost of purchased inputs represents
53-57% of the gross production value in the first year, on farms with new plantations even 61-71%.
Even if this risk aversion can be overcome, the financial returns are as attractive as presented here only as
long as general project services and in particular technical assistance and the dissemination of knowledge
including training are provided to the farmers free of charge.
3.     Regional aggregation
The success of the implementation of improved resource management technologies and approaches
largely depends on a number of activities which were not accounted for in the farm models. Based on
market failure and equity considerations, a case for public funding of these support services can be made
if the society at large receives sufficient return on overall investment.
-65 -



In order to assess the economic profitability of project activities at the entire project level, the farm
models as used above were aggregated to a regional model, based on the average rainfall scenario. Table
4 shows the regional distribution of total and technology-adopting households in the various farming
systems. Technical packages have been assumed to be adopted by farmers gradually over six years.
However, since the allocation of project resources to community activities will be based on a
participatory planning process, the types of investment assumed in this analysis can only be indicative.
The final investment programs will be defined each year through the Annual Work Plan and Budget
(AWPB), reflecting the communities' investment priorities as expressed in their medium-term
Community Action Plans (CAPs).
Table 4:   Total and technology-adopting households in farming systems of the project area
Type of Farm                   Proportion of HK   Number of RH  Adoption rate (%) Number of BH
I Barley and Livestock - small     20 % of small     2,640           35              920
2 Barley and livestock - larger    20 % of larger     1,760           45             790
3 Tree, barley and livestock - small  70 % of small  9,240            35            3,230
4 Tree, barley and livestock - larger  60 % of larger  5,280          45            2,380
5 New plantation and livestock - small  10% of small  1,320           35             460
6 New plantation and livestock - larger  20 % of larger  1,760        45             790
Total                                              22,000                         8,570
thereof. small                                   13,200
large                                      8,800
Adoption rates based on study "Adoption and inpact of MRM interventions on project beneficiaries' (PCU, July 2001),
and project staff estimates.
Regional costs. The regional costs are based on the farm budgets used in the farm level analysis (crop
and livestock budgets, adding the cost for on-farmn investment such as orchards plantation, water
harvesting, small contour walls for barley, fodder shrub plantations and animal sheds, converted to
economic prices), aggregated according to the expected frequency of each farm type and taking into
account adoption rates as observed during the preceding MRMP I (Table 4). They further include the full
economnic cost of the project (without the cost of the revolving fund) reduced by the farmers' contribution
to project activities (as these are already accounted for in the farm models), equivalent to the respective
project base cost plus physical contingencies minus taxes and adjusted by a SCF of 0.9.
Economic prices. The regional model uses economic prices. The economic price for barley has been
derived from World Bank Commodity Price projections, adjusted for freight, handling, taxes and duties
to arrive at farm-gate border price equivalents. For all other agricultural outputs, financial prices were
assumed to adequately reflect the economic prices. For livestock outputs, the economic price has been
assumed to equal the financial price due to the fact that the livestock sector is not characterized by any
economic distortion and that Egyptian livestock competes on the Arab Gulf market with products from
Turkey. The economic cost of labor has been estimated at 50% of the current wage rate to reflect the
excess supply of labor and the lack of altemative employment opportonities in the labor market during
most of the year. The economic cost of Water was calculated as the long-term marginal cost of a pipeline
from Alexandria to Matruh plus transportation by truck from storage facilities in Matruh to rural areas.
The financial prices of all other inputs have been converted to economic prices by applying a conversion
-66 -



factor of 0.9.
Cost-benefit analysis. The cost-benefit analysis at the regional level applying economic prices shows that
project interventions are profitable from the overall economy's viewpoint (economic IRR = 18.8%), even
if only the direct benefits in the farm households are taken into account. The actual economic
attractiveness, including non-quantified benefits from community-focused and environmental activities,
such as the strengthening of conmmunity and women development capacity, the support to off-farm
income activities and marketing, the construction of rural roads, and the biodiversity conservation, can be
assumed to be higher.
Sensitivity analysis. However, the impact of changes to critical assumptions can be substantial. Table 5
shows the reaction of the economic IRR to changes of such parameters.
Table 5:   Reaction of economic IRR to parameter changes
Economic DIR (%,6)                                        Parameter change
Psrameter     - -             -                   -    - 20%          - 4:20%
Opportunity cost of labour                              19.4              18.3
Economic cost of water                                  18.6              19.0
Total project costs                                     22.0              16.4
Adoption rates of proposed technologies                 16.0             21.2
Price of barley                                         18.5              19.1
Price of olives                                         18.3             19.3
Price of figs                                           17.0             20.5
Prices of all crop and livestock outputs                13.9             22.9
The economic viability of the project is particularly sensitive to changes in the total cost and benefits, the
adoption rates of innovations in agriculture and range and watershed management, and to a certain extent
to changes with regard to the opportunity cost of labor, or to specific crop prices. These observations
have the following implications for project management during implementation: changes of the economic
environment, especially marketing opportunities and prices, need to be fully reflected in the development
and dissemination of technical solutions; the project need to continue to concentrate on low-cost
solutions for the farming communities; benefits from improved technologies and management practices,
especially yield response to technical innovations, need to be re-assessed in the case of changing frame
conditions, e.g. frequency of droughts; and efficient and service-oriented project management as well as
strong commnunity participation and client (farmer) responsiveness are crucial.
Adoption rates - a crucial parameter for project success - are influenced by risk mitigation measures
available to farm households, altematives to the use of family resources currently expected to be
allocated to project activities, the quality of technology offered by the project, and the quality and
efficiency of dissemination by the Project and other service providers. Applying a farming systems
approach which views the farm-household as a decision-making unit that allocates family resources to a
number of competing but often inter-related farm and off-farrn activities becomes crucial for adoption
-67 -



and long-term sustainability.
4.     Financial analysis and fiscal impact
The beneficiaries will contribute US$4.4 million or 9.8 percent of total project cost in the form of
voluntary labor contributions and local materials for the construction and maintenance of water
harvesting structures, social centers and roads, equity contributions to credit-financed income-generating
activities and financial support to community resource persons. In order not to prejudice the involvement
of poor households, the communities will define mechanisms for differential contributions with greater
assistance for the poor and less for the people who can afford to contribute. Their largest contribution is
expected for land and water resource management activities (72% of total beneficiary contribution and
20% of total component cost) and civil works maintenance (63% of expenditures). Some activities, such
as gas stove purchase and other women activities, have even been implemented at full-cost recovery
under the preceding MRMP I, through a revolving fund managed by the project. However, the
beneficiaries are not expected to contribute to activities of public interest such as biodiversity
conservation.
The contribution of the Government of Egypt (GOE) will be US$10.4 million (23.1 percent of total
project cost) of which US$2.1 million will be taxes and duties. GOE will finance 87% of salaries and
allowances and 72% of total recurrent cost, broadly in line with the present financing arrangements under
MRMP I. This will include full coverage of the maintenance responsibilities for the roads paved under
the Project. Governmental funds will be provided through the budget of MALR and will be transferred to
a separate Project account managed by the PCU. MALR will be responsible for including the Project in
its budget submissions to GOE Department of Finance. Co-financing arrangements with IFAD and GEF
will provide for about 45 percent concessionality and thus meet GOE's requirements of a minimum of 40
percent grant element. This assumes that IFAD and IBRD funds will be provided at 3% and 6.5% per
annum, respectively.
The cost recovery arrangements will contribute to building ownership of the supported investments and
activities in the communities and help institutionalize a participatory planning process. Separate
envelopes of funding for demand-driven and government-initiated activities will provide for an allocation
of project funds to an appropriate mix of investments of local (e.g. water harvesting) and of regional or
global interest (e.g. biodiversity). The communities will assume full responsibility for management and
maintenance of community infrastructure constructed under the Project, with the exception of rural roads
where this responsibility will remain with the Govemment. Since investment into community
infrastructure and services will be based on CAPs, strong community commitment and increasing
capacity to maintain these structures can be expected.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
(see above)
Main Assumptions:
(see above)
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
(see above)
- 68 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Table 5-1: Financial summary: total project cost and financing (US$ million) by
implementation year
-vfl S>' ; - -2004                   _ 2005    2006     2007    2008     2009    Total
Financing required
Total Investment Costs              4.93    7.58     7.47    6.20    5.42     3.83    35.45
Total Recurrent Costs               1.33    1.44     1.55    1.63     1.71    1.73    9.38
Total project cost                  6.28    9.02     9.02    7.82    7.13     5.56    44.84
Financing available
IBRD                                1.99    2.73     2.42    2.10     1.52    1.45    12.22
iFAD                                1.26    2.54     2.55    2.41    2.41     1.53    12.70
GEF                                 1.10    1.18     1.26    0.71    0.59     0.33    5.17
Government                          1.54     1.73    1.91    1.76     1.74    1.68    10.36
Beneficiaries                       0.38    0.84     0.88    0.85    0.86     0.58    4.39
Total financing available           6.28    9.02     9.02    7.82     7.13    5.56    44.84
Note: Total Project costs do not include the IBRD financial charge of 1% front end-fee.
Table 5-2: Financial summary: component costs (US$ 1000) by financier
-      e - - i-         [BRD    [FAD. GEF Government Beneficiaries Total
A. Community Development
1. Capacity Building of Communities              1,690   -     11      1,997         36       3,840
2.Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity  1,909   -     276      1,367        819       4,371
Subtotal Community Development                   3,599   -     394     3,363         855       8,212
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management         -             -                     -    -
1. Land and Water Resource Management            337   10,286  270     1,625        3,151     15,670
2. Rangeland Management                          729    161   554       348           -        1,791
3. Biodiversty Conservation                       -      -    3,195     394           -        3,589
Subtotal Integrated Natural Resource Management  1,066  10,446 4,019   2,368        3,151     21,050
C. Productive Activities Development              -      -          -                 -         -
1. Agriculture and Livestock Services           1,572    -     197     1,696         40       3,505
2. Off-farm Income Activities                    570    280   560       38            -        1,448
Subtotal Support for Income Generating Activities  2,142  280  757     1,734         40        4,953
D. Rural Roads                                   3,000   -      -       706          339       4,044
E. Revolving Fund / Rural Micro-Finance          1,651  1,975   -        8            -        3,634
F. Project Management                            760     -      -      2,183          -        2,943
Total PROJECT COSTS                             12,217  12,702 5,170   10,362       4,385     44,836
Note: Total Project costs do not include the IBRD financial charge of 1% front end-fee.
- 69 -



Table 5-3: Financial summary: disbursement account (US$ 1000) by financier
-DBD     'IFAD   , GEF  _Goveniuent Bneficlares  Total .
Local Community Grants                        6,703    10,264    657     2,885      4,385     24,894
Pre-defined Investments/Support to Project staff/Project managemnent-
Civil Works                                     -        -      428       66          -        494
Vehicles                                       448       -      226       133         -        808
Equipment and materials                        720       -      445       581         -        1,747
Micro-finance                                 1,500     1,500     -        -          -       3,000
Research Sub-Projects                          529       -       113       -          -        641
Training                                       563      182      142      73          -        961
Technical Assistance                          1,103     755     2,640     412         -       4,911
Salaries                                        -        -       515     4,358        -       4,874
Road maintenance                                -         -       -       272         -        272
Operating Costs and administrative expenses    652       -        3      1,580        -       2,235
Sub-total: Pre-definedInvestmentsSupport to
Project StafflProject Management              5,514    2,438    4,512    7,477        -       19,942
Total PROJECT COSTS                           12,217   12,702   5,170    10,362     4,385     44,836
Note: Total Project costs do not include the LBRD financial charge of 1% front end-fee.
- 70-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project, whether under IBRD, GEF or IFAD funding, will be carried out in
accordance with: (i) the World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published in January 1995 (revised in January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published in January
1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002; and, (ii) the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement.
NCB Provisions and conditionalities
(i) Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the Guidelines who proposes to provide goods
produced in, or services supplied from, any such country shall be eligible to bid for such contracts;
(ii) Tenders shall be advertised with no less that thirty (30) days for bid preparation;
(iii) Government-owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they are legally and financially
autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not selected or hired by the supervising or reporting
authority, and shall be subject to the same bid and performnance security requirements as other bidders;
(iv) Bidders shall be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail.
(v) Bids shall be opened in public; that is, bidders or their representatives shall be allowed to be present
at the place where bids are to be opened. The time for the bid opening shall be the same as for the
deadline for receipt of bids or promptly thereafter; and shall be announced, together with the place for
bid opening, in the invitation to bid;
(vi) Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria disclosed in the bid documents and
quantified in monetary terms, and no provision for preferential treatment for national companies shall be
applied, and
(vii) The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having subrnitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid,
and no negotiation shall take place.
(viii) Arabic translation of the Bank's standard bidding documents may be used.
Project Management
Project management arrangements will largely follow the structure established under MRMP. The
existing PCU under the on-going MRMP will continue to be responsible for procurement under the
proposed MRMP II. The PCU is headed by a Director General with delegation of authority from the
MALR regarding the disbursement of project funds. At the regional level, a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), which has been established under the MRMP, will continue to function. Under the
follow-on project, local community representatives will be included in the PCC. Procurement under the
WFAD loan and the GEF grant will also be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
-71 -



Procurement Risk Assessment
An assessment of PCU's procurement capacity was carried out during appraisal, and is filed in the
project documents. Such procurement assessment was not carried out for the first Project preparation
since it was not mandatory at the time. Although the project team developed some experience in dealing
with procurement under Bank-financed projects, the Procurement Unit (PRU) should be strengthened,
particularly in the selection and employment of consultants, which they did not have to do under the first
Project, and procurement planning. A centralized filing system, with individual files for each
procurement action from tendering to contract award and administration should be set up. An intensive
training is recommended, as soon as possible. The World Bank Office in Cairo should provide on the
job-training as the need arises, and follow-up. The Appraisal mission recommended that one of the PCU
trained staff, who attended the training in procurement of goods and consulting services at ILO, Turin,
and the Bank workshop in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, be assigned to the PRU, as well as one additional
staff. The head of the procurement unit will be nominated according to ternis of reference and
qualifications agreed upon with the World Bank (effectiveness condition). The results of the procurement
assessment is that overall, there will be a substantial procurement risk until intensive training has been
completed. If necessary, the PCU will hire a short-term consultant, on a retainer, to assist the PRU until
the Unit has acquired sufficient capacity. The total value of contracts subject to prior review represents
30 percent of the total Loan amount. For the rest of the procurement, the Borrower shall furnish all
information and documents that Bank may reasonably request, as part of the post review.
Goods (Equipment, Materials, and Vehicles)
The project will finance vehicles, equipment and materials. The total value of goods, IBRD-financed, is
estimated at US$2.64 million equivalent. ICB procedures will be used for procurement of packages with
a value of above US$250,000. To the extent possible and practical, goods to be purchased under the
project will be grouped into packages costing between US$250,000 and US$1,000,000. Goods with
estimated contract values below US$250,000, will be procured using NCB procedures, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.52 million. Where compatibility of spare parts, or items of proprietary nature, or
compatibility with existing equipment, or items are available only from sole source of supply, direct
contracting with the manufacturer or the authorized agent will be used, up to an aggregate amount of
US$250,000. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding US$1.6 million will be procured using National/International Shopping (NS/IS)
procedures, with at least three quotations from three eligible sources.
Domestic Preference: Under ICB procedures for the procurement of goods only, a margin of preference
will be granted to goods manufactured in Egypt, when compared to such goods manufactured elsewhere.
Appendix 2 of the guidelines will apply to domestic preference.
- 72 -



Civil Works
Civil works for the Watershed Management/Water Harvesting. These include a combination of civil
works and agricultural measures. These will be small and scattered works with a total value of about
US$0.4 million, IBRD financed. These civil works will be procured using NCB procedures up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.4 million, and where appropriate, through direct contracting with local
communities. The detailed procedures for direct contracting with local communities will be described in
the Operational Manual. The works procured through direct contracting with the local communities will
be in small parcels not exceeding US$100,000 each with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.4
million. No ICB procedures will be used due to the small scale contract sizes making it unattractive for
foreign contractors (as was evident from the current MRMP project) but they will nevertheless be
eligible for bidding under NCB procedures if they so wish. Contracts of small works below US$50,000
will be procured using National/lInternational Shopping.
Rural Roads:   The Rural Roads component involves the paving of about 135 kms of dirt
tracks(estimated cost about US$3.0 million, IBRD financed) will be bid under NCB procedures. The
estimated value of these rural roads contracts will be about US$ I million per contract. They will generate
employment of the local population from the conmmunities in gathering and stockpiling of stones by the
road side for the base and sub-base layers. This is considered a contribution to the welfare of the local
commnunities and an assistance to employment in the area. Provisions for using labor-intensive
construction methods will be described in the Operational Manual.
Buildings: These works involve small and geographically scattered works estimated to cost about US$
0.6 million in total (IBRD financed) and involve small buildings (2 to 3 rooms each) and associated civil
works. Bidding will follow NCB procedures and will involve about six separate contracts, with values
about US$100,000.
Community participation. Works required under Components A 1 and 2, B1, B2, Cl and D can be
undertaken by community members. In that case, provisions 3.15 of the Guidelines apply.
Services
Technical Assistance and Training: These will involve individual consultants, mostly hired to support
the PCU and its specialized units in designs, specialized studies, surveys and training. TA and training
would be implemented in small packages generally costing between US$20,000 to US$150,000 with an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.97 million for training and US$1.18 million for technical
assistance (IBRD financed). The selection of consultants financed through the World Bank loan, IFAD
loans and the GEF grant will be according to World Bank Guidelines. For such contracts, the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals will be used, and the selection of consultants will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). Consultant services provided by firms with an estimated contract amount
exceeding US$100,000 and by individuals with an estimated contract amount exceeding US$50,000, will
be advertised in the United Nations Development Business and in at least one national paper, seeking
expressions of interest In the case of assignments to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, the short-list
of consultants may comprise entirely national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified finms are
available at competitive costs. The selection of firms for contracts below US$100,000 will follow the
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) selection method. The selection of individual consultants for contracts
below US$50,000 will follow the Individual Consultants (IC) selection method. Single-Source Selection
(SSS) will be permitted only in cases that can be justified according to paragraphs 3.8-3.11 and 5.1-5.4 of
the Guidelines.
- 73 -



Prior Review Thresholds
(a)    Works: All contracts valued US$250,000 or more, and the fist five contracts irrespective of the
contracts amounts, for both NCB and NS/Small works procurement methods. All contracts under direct
contracting.
(b)    Goods: All contracts valued US$250,000 or more, as well as the first five contracts under both
NCB and NS, irrespective of the contracts amounts. All contracts under direct contracting.
(c)    Services: (i) All contracts valued US$100,000 or more for firms; (ii) TORs, short lists and the
five first contracts below US$100,000 for firms; (iii) Reports on the comparison of the qualifications and
experience of the candidates, the qualifications, experience, TORs, and terms of employment for
contracts for individuals valued US$50,000 or more, (iv) TORs, short lists, and the five first contracts for
individuals valued less than US$50,000. All contracts under Single Source Selection.
GEF-financed categories
The following will be the aggregate amounts to be financed out of the GEF grant proceeds
(US$5,170,000)
(a)    Works: The total amount of works to be financed under GEF grant is US$700,000. Works under
NCB is estimated to cost about US$300,000. Works under other methods (as described in footnote of
Table A) is         US$400,000.
(b)    Goods: The total amount of goods to be financed under the GEF grant is US$950,000. Goods
under NCB are estimated to cost about US$180,000. Goods procured under other methods are estimated
to cost about US$570,000.
(c)    Services: The total amount of consultants services and training to be financed under GEF-grant
is estimated at about US$2,900,000.
(d)    Miscellaneous: The total amount to be procured under "miscellaneous" and "recurrent costs" is
estimated to be about US$110,000 and US$510,000 respectively.
The Prior Review Thresholds are the same as for IBRD financed activities.
Operation Manual
A procurement manual as been prepared as part of the Project Operation Manual. It includes in
addition to the procurement procedures, the NCB Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals, Standard
Bid Evaluation Report format, to be used for each procurement method. A procurement plan for the fist
year of the implementation of the project was elaborated and is included in the Operation Manual.
- 74-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements iv
(US$ million equivalent)
ICB             NCB             Other 2/          NFB           Total Cost
(IBRD)/(GEF)     (IBRD)I(GEF)    (IBRD)/(GEF)     (IBRD)/(GEF)    (IBRD)/(GEF)
1. Works                     0.00             7.53            11.64            0.00             19.17
(0.00)        (1.58)(0.30)      (1.58)(0.4)       (0.00)         (3.88)(0.7)
2. Goods                     1.01             0.96             3.00            00.00            4.97
(0.55)(0.20)    (0.52)(0.18)     (1.57)(0.57)     (0.00)(0.00)    (2.64)(0.95)
3. Services                  0.00             0.00             5.85            0.00             5.85
(0.00)           (0.00)        (2.15)(2.9)       (0.00)         (2.15)(2.9)
4. MisceDlaneous 3/          0.00             0.00             5.62            0.00             5.62
(0.00)           (0.00)        (2.97)(0.11)       (0.00)        (2.97)(0.11)
5. Front-end fee             0.00             0.00             0.12            0.00             0.12
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.12)           (0.00)          (0.12)
6. Recurrent costs 4/        0.00             0.00             0.00            9.24             9.24
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.59) (0.51)      (0.00)        (0.59) (0.51)
Total                       1.01             8.49            26.23            9.24             44.97
(0.55) (0.20)    (2.10)(0.48)    (9.70) (4.49)       (0.00)       (12.35) (5.17)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan and the GEF grant. All costs include
contingencies
2    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the PCU, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
y   The amount of US$2.97 million to be financed by the Bank Loan, under Miscellaneous (other) corresponds to
the costs of the Micro Finance Credit, Local Community Development initiatives, and Research sub-projects.
1   Recurrent costs of US$0.59 cover the cost of salaries of contracted additional staff, incremental operating costs
incurred by the PCU on account of office furniture and supplies and local transportation.
-75 -



Prlor review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject'to
Threshold              Procurement              Pror Review
Expenditure Cat gory)     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                  >=50,000<1,000,000             NCB              All contracts >250,000
and the first five contracts
<50,000              NS/Small works         First five contracts
<100,000             Direct contracting   All contracts irrespective
of contract amount
2. Goods                      >=250,000                   ICB                 All contracts
>=30,000<250,000              NCB              The first five contracts
<100,000                  NStIS            The first five contracts
<100,000             Direct contracting   All contracts irrespective
of contract amount
3. Servlces                   >=100,000                  QCBS                     All
(a) Firms                    <100,000                   CQ             TORS, Short lists, and first
five contracts
(b) Individuals              >=50,000           Section V of Guidelines  Reports on the comparison
of the qualifications &
experience, TORs, Terms
of employment
<50,000           Section V of Guidelines  TORs, Short lists and the
first five contracts
Single Source Selection  All contracts irrespective
of contract amount
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$3.7 million (30%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
Substantial Risk until capacity building has
been completed.
Overall Procumbment Risk Assessment:
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 4 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
One mission every 4 months for the first year. May be reduced to 6 months in subsequent years.
I'
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 76-



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
An assessment of the financial management (FM) arrangements for the Project was undertaken on
March 2002 and the assessment was updated during appraisal in June 2002. It concluded that the FM
arrangements for the Project which prevailed under the first Project, are no longer acceptable to the
Bank. Accordingly a FM action plan was agreed with the borrower and its successful implementation is
a condition of effectiveness. A summary of the FM assessment, risks and conclusions are as follows:
ITEM                 RISK         RATING                    COMMENTS
Implementing Entity      Moderate        Satisfactory   Same PCU was involved in Matruh I. The
project achieved its developmental objectives.
Management is proactive.
Funds flow                Moderate      Satisfactory    Under the first project, counterpart funds, unlike
other bank funded projects in Egypt, were
available on time.
Staffing                  High           Unsatisfactory  All accountants (same staff from Matruh I) need
strengthening in International Accounting
Standards, Bank policies, English, and computer
skills.
Accounting Policies &     High           Unsatisfactory  Informal and not documented. However, MOF
Procedures                                              regulations are strictly utilized.
Internal Audit           N/A             N/A           No Internal Audit. MOF representative conducts
a I100% ex ante audit over all expenditures.
External Audit           High            Unsatisfactory  Performed by CAO under the first project. The
reports were basic in nature and received after
due dates. CAO did not issue management
letters.
Reporting and Monitoring  High           Unsatisfactory  Financial and procurement reports are manual,
.__ _ _   ad-hoc, and time consuming.
Information systems      High            Unsatisfactory  Manual system. Computers available were used
for word-processing.
OVERALL                High       Unsatisfactory  The financial management arrangements do
I                              I not meet the Bank minimum requirements.
1.1    Financial Manaeement Risks
Country Financial Management Risks: ROSC draft report (2002) , Mini-CFAA (1997), preliminary
CFAA process (2002), and CPPR report (2002) identified major weaknesses in the Egyptian financial
accountability, in both the public and the private sector. The CAS (2001) underlies the inherent risk
related to country economic development and public sector administration capacity. Another issue that
affects inherent risk is the level of corruption within Egypt. In Transparency International's Corruption
Perceived Index (CPI) for 2001, Egypt scored 3.6 out of 10.
Project Financial Management Risk: An assessment of the PCU financial management system
- 77 -



(responsible for implementing Matruh 1) identified the following weaknesses in the project's FM system:
(i) manual accounting and budgeting system, (ii) informal accounting policies and procedures, (iii) staff
need capacity building in the areas of finance, accounting, computer, and English, and (iv) annual audits
for Matruh I were conducted by CAO and according to local regulations. The Project will require good
coordination between the PCU and EEAA and various funding sources (IBRD, IFAD, GEF, and local
contribution). An analysis of control risk is presented above while a summary of inherent risk follows:
ITEM                                 RISK        COMMENTS
Country financial Management Risk    High       Based on the findings of: Mini-CFAA
(1997), preliminary CFAA (2002),
draft ROSC (2002), and CAS (2001)
serious weaknesses were identified in
the accounting and auditing
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ _ __   _professions in Egypt.
Project Financial Management Issues  High       This is a relatively complex project with
three donors in addition to the GOE, four
special accounts and local communities
direct involvement.
Counter Part Funds                    oderate    ased on experience with Matruh I.
Overall Inherent Risk                High
1.2    Streneths and Weaknesses
The following strengths were identified during appraisal and we intend to rely on them during project
implementation:
Strengths                                      Comments
1- Serious commitment and desire of senior       The process of selecting the FM consultant was
management to improve the PCU's financial        very positive.
management system
2- MOF representative appreciates Bank procurement  This will help in the implementation of the new
and disbursement guidelines.                     FM system.
3- Counter past funds for Matruh I were available on  Unlike other Bank funded projects in Egypt, local
time and with no delays.                         funding is not an issue.
-78-



Also, the following weaknesses were noted:
Weakness                                       Resolution
1- Weak financial management system.(reporting,  Hiring a financial management consultant to develop
recording, policies and procedures, and budgeting).  a sound FM system.
2- Accounting, Human Resources, and Procurement are  In the new design, three separate units were created.
all in one large unit under one director. This has a
negative impact on segregation of duties.
3- Audit reports for Matruh I were basic, received after  Private and independent auditor will conduct annual
due dates and did not include management letters.  audits in accordance to Intemational Standards on
Auditing.
4- Procurement staff are not familiar with Bank  Refer to procurement section.
procurement guidelines.
1.3    Risk Mitieating Measures
To compensate for the above mentioned issues, a combination of "ring-fencing" the project, hiring a
financial management consultant to develop a sound financial management system, recruiting qualified
and competent accounting and procurement staff (if advised by the FM consultant), quarterly SOE
reviews and annual audits conducted by private auditors, release of FMRs on quarterly basis by the
project, and close supervision by the Bank will all help reduce the level of risk to an acceptable level.
1- A qualified financial management consultant is hired for 12-15 weeks to establish a sound
financial management and reporting systems within the PCU (condition of effectiveness).
2- Annual audit for the project will be handled by a private, qualified, and independent auditor.
TOR for the assignment will clearly reflect the project exact needs and nature. Also, quarterly SOE
reviews will be conducted by another extemal auditor to ensure that expenditures are accurate and in
accordance to the loan agreement.
3- Close supervision by the Bank through the resident mission office in Egypt. This will entail
quarterly missions (at least in the first year of the project) to review work done by the financial
management consultant and to ensure that the developed system is maintained in a consistent
manner. Also, identified financial management risks will be continually evaluated and appropriate
remedial measures taken during the Bank's supervision missions.
1.4   Proiect Manazement and Coordination
Implementation of the Project will be undertaken by Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which has
experience with a prior IDA-financed project (Matruh 1). The PCU will be responsible for the
management of all project activities and implementation of a transparent financial management system.
The PCU will also be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. -It will
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial
monitoring reports, and ensure timely submission of the audit report.
- 79-



1.5    Flow of funds
The allocation of funds will include funds from the Borrower, IBRD, EFAD, and GEF. To ensure that
funds are readily available for the project implementation and not commingle funds from various
sources, the project will open two Special Accounts. The first will be for the overall project while the
second will be specifically for the micro-finance component. In addition, a third Special Account will be
opened for GEF funds and a fourth one for IFAD funds.The PCU will have access to, and manage,
the Special Accounts SA(s) and will disburse directly from them. For the GEF Special Account, two
signatures are necessary, from the Head of the Biodiversity Conservation Unit and from the Head of the
PCU Financial Management Unit. As in Matruh-I and to facilitate the process, for activities where IBRD
(or GEF) and GOE finance together (based on stipulated percentages), the PCU is going to utilize GOE
counterpart funds to pay for the whole (IBRD and GOE shares) activity amount. Later and on a monthly
basis the PCU will make a transfer of funds from IBRD SAs or GEF SA to reimburse the GOE bank
account.
1.6    Staffine
The accounting and reporting functions are handled by 13 accountants, accounting manager, and a
finance director. Most of the staff (except for the finance manager) are not familiar with Bank guidelines
(financial management, procurement, or disbursement). This may be due to the level of English language
and computer skills the staff possess.  It was noted during appraisal that no job descriptions or an
organization structure exist for the department. The financial management consultant hired, will work
with the project in developing the capacity of the staff and in reconmmending areas where additional staff
with different skill mix are needed. He will elaborate job descriptions and propose a working
organization for the unit.
1.7    Bud2eting process
The budget process for the project can be summarized in nine stages as described below:
(i)    For the first year, the Ailaat of each local community identify their needs and priorities. For the
ensuing years, the needs and priorities of the Ailaat will be adjusted in the light of the results of
the Ailaat ongoing evaluation and diagnosis process.
(ii)   Planning process which is assumed jointly by the local community representatives (LCR), project
staff and the Community Development Unit (CDU). The result of this process is:
the six-year Community Action Plan (CAP) where priorities, in terms of infrastructure
investments and concems related to agriculture and other activities, are indicated (for the
first year) or updated (for the ensuing years); and
the Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB) where all the activities to be
implemented by the project in the local community for the year are indicated and
budgeted.
(iii) Presentation and discussion of the results of the planning process in meetings organized in each
aila of the local communuity to validate and adopt the CAP (new for the first year, updated for the
ensuing years) and the AWPB. The latter, after being approved by the ailaat, becomes a binding
document and cannot be changed.
(iv) Preparation of the project action plan and budget by the CDU based on the aggregation of the local
communities AWPB and the operating budget of the project staff..
-80-



(v) Presentation, at the Project Management Committee (internal clearance) and the Project
Coordination Committee (external clearance), of the Project Work Program and Budget for
validation
(vi) Implementation process will be the responsibility of the PCU. Nevertheless, the objective of the
project is to strengthen LCs capacity in order to transfer progressively implementation to them.
(vii) Monitoring and evaluation process will be performed by the PCU through the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit and the Financial Management Unit. At the sub-regional level, the five SRSCs
will also be involved in monitoring and evaluation..
(viii) Reviewing of the execution of the budget by an independent, qualified, and private auditor on
annual basis.
1.8    AccountinLy System
PCU has experience with a prior project financed by IDA (Matruh I) and has established internal control
mechanisms in accordance with MOF regulations on the application and use of funds. However, the
project does not have a financial management manual.
It is agreed that for Matruh II the Project accounting (cash basis) will cover all sources of project funds
and all utilization of said funds according to International Accounting Standards. All project-related
transactions will be recorded in the books of accounts and supported documents will be kept at the PCU
level (audit trail). Direct disbursements made by the Bank and from the SA will be included in the project
accounting system. Funds received from different sources (World Bank, IFAD, GEF, and GOE budget)
will be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and FS.
The Project will have an accounting procedures manual which will outline (i) accounting job
responsibilities within the PCU, (ii) monthly, quarterly, and annually closing and reconciliation
procedures including SA, loan account, and SOEs, (iii) accounting policies including those related to the
conversion from foreign currency to the local currency and authorization and payments system, (iv)
banking and cash procedures, (v) means of monitoring and reviewing financial transactions on the SRSCs
level, and (vi) internal control guidelines that will cover financial management, disbursement, and
procurement.
1.9    Reporting
The PCU will be responsible for issuing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) and annual
Project Financial Statements (PFS):
(i)    Ouarterly un-audited FMR. The format and content of the FMR, which will be produced 45 days
from each quarter closing date, were determined as part of the project appraisal, agreed at negotiations,
and will be included in the financial management manual. FMR include financial, procurement, and
physical progress information. There should also be an introductory narrative discussions of project
developments and progress during the quarter, to provide context to the information reported in the FMR.
(ii)   Annually audited PFS. audit report, submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the closing date
of the fiscal year, will have to include: (i) a statement of sources and uses of funds indicating funds
received from various sources, project expenditures, assets and liabilities; (ii) schedules classifying
project expenditures by components, category, and sectors; (iii) a SA reconciliation statement; and (iv) a
statement of withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs.
- 81 -



1.10  Audit
No significant issues arose in the audits of Matruh I which was Bank-financed and implemented by the
same PCU. The audits were conducted by CAO.
1.11   Action Plan
The weaknesses identified during appraisal will be addressed before project effectiveness, through the
following actions which have been agreed with the project management and are conditions for
effectiveness:
Action                               Responsible Person      Completion Date
I- FM consultant completes the work  Deputy project director.  February 28, 2003
stipulated in the TOR.
3- Hire additional FM staff, if needed (based Project Director General and  Before Effectiveness
on FM consultant recommendations).    s Deputy.
4- Review of the newly developed system  World Bank           Before Effectiveness.
by a Bank representative.
1.12  Supervision Plan
Before effectiveness, the development of the financial management system for Matruh II will be
monitored in detail until loan effectiveness by the Bank's FMS.
After effectiveness. As required, a Bank-accredited FMS will assist in the supervision process. The
FMRs for the Project will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Project FMS and the results or issues
will be followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports will be reviewed and issues
identified will be followed up by the FMS. Also, during the Bank's supervision missions the Project's
financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a sample of SOEs and
movements on the Special Account) will be reviewed to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum
requirements and to develop the financial management rating recently introduced to the Project Status
Report (PSR). The FM ratings are due twice a year: by the end of June and by the end of December.
2. Audit Arrangements
Annual audits for Matruh II will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank
and procured by the PCU through the Least-Cost Selection process before loan effectiveness. The cost of
the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the loan. The audit will be performed for the project as a
whole (i.e., PCU, NGO, SRSCs, and other implementing agencies), encompass all project activities under
loan agreement (including implementing agencies such as: Service Provider for the off-farm
income-generating activities and the Technical Assistance Company handling the micro-fnance credit
scheme) and cover all special accounts. The audit report, accompanied by a management letter, will
cover the project's financial statements, reconciliation and use of the special accounts, use of direct
payments, and withdrawal based on SOEs. The report should be submitted by the PCU to the Bank no
later than six months following the closing of the fiscal year subject of the audit. The audit should be in
accordance with the Bank auditing requirements and conducted according to Intemational Standards on
Auditing.
- 82 -



On the other hand, contracts to be signed by the PCU and Service Provider and/or Technical Assistance
Company should include an audit clause clearly indicating that:
* in the case of the Service Provider and the Technical Assistance Company, the Project has the right
to receive their annual audit report three months after fiscal year-end and to have the Project's
auditor conduct audit of their accounts on annual basis;
* concerning the latter, the Project's external auditor may conduct an audit of the Project's specific
funds, if necessary.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
1.    Allocation of loan proceeds. The World Bank loan of US$12.35 million and the GEF grant of
US$5.17 million will be disbursed during Project implementation according to Tables C and D below.
There are three main kinds of activities and two types of disbursement, according to who decides:
(a) Local Communities make decisions regarding the activities that will be part of their Annual
Work Program and Budget. Funding for these come under "Local Community Grants". Under
Local Community Grants, there are local community activities that are IBRD-funded (Table C),
others that are GEF-funded (Table D). The IBRD and GEF-funded activities are described under
Component description summary in Section C. 1 and Annex 2;
(b) The PCU makes decisions regarding: (i) Activities that do not depend upon Local Community
decisions; and (ii) funding that goes to the PCU for implementing the project. Disbursement will
be made under categories: civil works, equipment and material, training and consultant services
and incremental operating costs.
2.     Disbursement details
The loan and the grant are expected to be disbursed over a period of six years. The estimated loan and
grant disbursements are presented up front of this document. All project activities are expected to be
completed by June 30, 2009, and the loan and grant will close on December 31, 2009. All expenditures
are net of taxes and duties. Preparation and submission of disbursement applications will be the
responsibility of the PCU. Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation.
3.     Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Withdrawals from the IBRD loan and GEF grant
accounts may be made on the basis of SOEs. All supporting documentation for SOEs, including copies of
invoices and bank statements, must be maintained by the PCU for at least one year of completion of the
project. As part of the annual audit, all records and documents must be made available for the review of
the external auditor and visiting supervision missions from the World Bank.
4.     Special Accounts (SAs). To facilitate project implementation and make timely payments of the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures to contractors, suppliers, consultants, and others, the Borrower will
open and maintain two special accounts for the IBRD loan, denominated in US dollars, in a commercial
bank in Egypt,on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The first Special Account will be for the
overall Project, the second will be specifically for the micro-finance component. In addition, a third
Special Account will be opened for GEF funds. A comfort letter will be provided by the commercial
bank where the accounts will be held.
- 83-



Deposits into, and payments from the SA(s) will be made in accordance with provisions in the Loan
Agreement for the IBRD funds, and in accordance with the Grant Agreement for the GEF funds.
Withdrawal applications and replenishments of the SA(s) will be prepared and sent by the PCU carrying
the authorized signatures. Each withdrawal application will be signed by two authorized representatives.
Authorized signatories names and corresponding specimens of their signatures will be submitted to
IBRD. For the GEF special account, one of the signatory will the head of the Biodiversity Conservation
Unit.
Initially, for the IBRD main special account, an advance of up to US$400,000 will be transferred upon
request from the GOE, after effectiveness of the loan and receipt by IBRD of an acceptable withdrawal
application.  Once the disbursements reach US$2 millions, the IBRD Special Account will be
established at its full level, that is US$800,000, equal to 4 months of estimated expenditures. For the
micro-finance component, an advance of up to US$200,000 will be transferred, under the same
prerequisites plus the recruitment of the Technical Assistance Company. For the GEF Special Account,
the initial advance will be of up to US$250,000. Once disbursements reach US$1 million, the GEF
Special Account will be established at its full level, that is US$500,000, also equal to 4 months of
estimated expenditures.
Requests for replenishment of the special accounts will be submitted on a monthly basis. A bank
statement of the special accounts and a reconciliation of the special accounts against the bank records
will support the replenishment applications. The minimum amount for applications for direct payment
and for special commitment will be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the special accounts.
Replenishment of the special accounts will follow Bank procedures. There is no minimum amount
applicable to replenishment requests (Withdrawal Applications). Disbursements from the Bank loan or
GEF Grant will follow the traditional system: reimbursements with full documentation, against
Statements of Expenditure or direct payments.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 84 -



Table C:       Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US $) IBRD-financed
- ' a -        -. .-  ' - T ,ez, Total indtcitlve cost -. Flnandng percenln5
Local Community Grants                               6,294,100       85%
Pe-defined Investments/Support to Project
staff/Project management
Equipment and materials                              1,112,600  See footnote below
Micro-finance                                        1,500,000       50%
Research Sub-Projects                                 503,400        100%
Training and consultant services                     1,662,900       85%
Incremental operating costs                           625,000        50%
Sub-total: Pre-defined InvestmenftsSupport to
Prject Staff/Project Managem en t                    5,403,900
Front-end fee                                          123,500        1%
nallocated                                            528,500
Tdal PROJECT COSTS                                  12,350,000
Table D:    Allocation of Grant Proceeds (US $) GEF-financed
-      *.>          . ~~~~~~~~~~~".61&        me    Fina  n--eret.
Local Communit Grants                                620,000                  85%
Pre-defined Investments/Support to Project
staff/Project management
Civil works                                          389,200                 90%
Equipment and materials                               639,700    See footnote below
Research Sub-Projects                                 107,400               100%
raining and consultant services                     2,775,300                85%
Salaries, operation and administration                518,100                95%
Sub-total: Pre-defined Investments/Support to
Project Staff/Project Costs                         4,429,700
fnalocated                                           120,300
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 5,170,000
Notes
For equipment and materials, the percentage of expenditures to be financed from the IBRD loan or GEF Grant is as
follows: 100% of foreign expenditures or local ex-factory expenditures; 85% of other items procured locally.
For consultants services, the IBRD loan finances 85% of the contracts, all tax-mcluded. Taxes, estimated at an
average of 15%, are financed by the GOE.
The category "incremental costs" refers to expenditures incurred by the PCU on account of office furniture and
supplies, local transportation and PCU staff costs, excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
The category "Local Community grants" finances the implementation of the CAPs and their Annual Program of
Work and Budget.
The category "Micro-finance Sub-loans" is financed together with IFAD. Hence the disbursement percentage: 50%
Salaries, operation and administration are financed at 95%, due to the fact that the activities are entirely new.
However, the amount in that category under GEF funding reflects financing of the salaries on a decreasing scale.
-85-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                  11
First Bank mission (Identification)                                         09/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                                                 06/15/2002
Negotiations                                                                12/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                               01/01/2004
Prepared by:
Marie-Helene Collion, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Speciality                         -
Marie-Helene Collion              Task Team Leader
Ayat Soliman                      Co-Task Team Leader and Team Leader for GEF Component
Pierre Rondot                     Community Development Specialist
Samia Msadek                      Financial Management Specialist
Arbi Ben-Achour                   Sociologist
Matthias Grueninger               Economist
Hisham Waly                       Financial Management Specialist
Nadia Gouhier                     Procurement Specialist
Nejdet Al-Salihi (Consultant)     Irrigation Engineer
Dirk van der Sluijs (Consultant)  Agriculturist
John Hall (Consultant)            Range Management Specialist
Conchita Castillo                 Program Assistant
Maya El-Azazi                     Team Assistant
- 86 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Pre-identification Mission: BTO and Aide-Memoire dated July 2001
*    PCD November 2001
*    Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO and Aide-Memoire dated March 2002
*    Appraisal Mission: BTO and Aide-Memoire dated July 2002
C. Other
1.   Volume I of Formulation Report
2.   Volume II of Formulation Report
3.   Annex 1: Socio-Economic Profile of Target Group
4.   Annex 2: Gender Issues and Development
5.   Annex 3: Participatory Planning and Community Capacity Building
6.   Annex 4: Land and Water Resource Conservation and Development
7.   Annex 5: Crop and Horticulture Production
8.   Annex 6: Range Management and Livestock Production
9.   Annex 7: Off-farm Income Generating Activities
10.   Annex 8: Marketing and Agro-Processing
11.   Annex 9: Bio-Diversity Conservation and Environmental Protection
12.   Annex 10: Rural Roads
13.   Annex 11: Rural Finance
14.   Annex 12: Project Organization and Management
15.   Annex 13: Project Costs
16.   Annex 14: Financial and Economic Analysis
17.   Assessment Potentials for Off-farm Activities Development (Preparation MRMP-II), Ministry of
Agriculture and Land Reclamation, May 2002.
18.   Procurement Risk Assessment
*Including electronic files
-87 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
06-Feb-2003
Dderence between expected
and actual
Original Amnount I USS Millions                           disbursements
Proqect ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                        Cancel    Undisb.      Orig  Fnm Revd
P056236       2002 HIGHER EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM            50 00      0 00                          0 00     49 50       6.26      0 00
P045499       2000 EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II                         50 00      0.00                          0 00     4141        175       0 00
P052705       1999 SOCIAL FUND III                                  0.00     so00                           0.00      48 79     47 31      1 39
P053832       1999 PRVTSECT&AG DEV                                22500      7500                           0.00     16926     14864      2412
P066336       1999 SOCPROTINITPROJ                                  000       500                           000       449        2.02      1 15
P040858       1999 SOHAG RURAL DEV                                  0 00     25 00                          0 00      21.28      941      -0.83
P041410       1999 P S REHAB III                                  12000       000                           000       9864      7714       000
P050484       1999 Secondary Educabon Enhancement Proje             0.00     50 00                          0 00      38.00      5 93      0 00
P054958       1998 POLLUTIONABATEMENT                              20.00     15.00                          000       16.56     1516       606
P045175       1998 EG-HEALTH SECTOR                                 000      90 00                           0 00     65.46     69 58      0 00
P049166       1998 EG-EAST DELTA AG SERV                            0 00     15 00                          0 00      13 33     12 09      0 51
P005169       1997 EG-ED ENHANCEMENT PROG                           0.00     75.00                           0 00     32.96     37 23      4 16
P005163       1996 POPULATION                                       000      17.20                          000       10.10     1159      1110
P005173       1995 EGYPT IRRIGATION IMP                            26 70     53.30                           0 00     27 92     34.20     -6 a5
P005161       1993 BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT              0 00     55 50                          0 00       6 75      9 85      565
Total:     491 70     526 00                          0.00     6d2 46    48816       46 46
- 88 -



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1983/91/92/94/96/98  ANSDK                       0.00    11.15    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.15    0.00    0.00
1994/96/99         Abu Soma Develop              0.00    0.07     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
2001               Amreya                        5.31     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.31    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999               CIL                           0.00     1.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.65    0.00    0.00
1992/97/98         Carbon Black-EGT              7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               Ceramica Al-Amir              6.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1994               Club Ras Soma                 2.45    2.37     0.00    0.00    2.45    2.37    0.00    0.00
1993               Cfnrcl Intl Bank              0.00    15.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00
2001               EFG Hermes                    10.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               HC Investment                 0.00     1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
2001               IT Worx                       0.00     2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0 00
1997               MGDK                          0.00     1.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00
1986/88/92         Meleiha Oil                   0.00    13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Misr Compressor               9.70    0.00     0.00    0.00    9.70    0.00    0.00    0 00
2002               OCIC                         25.00     0.00    0.00   30.50   25.00    0.00     0.00   30.50
1997/99            Orascom                       0.00    0.85     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.00    0.00
1996/01            Orix Leasing EGT              6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               PortSaid                     45.00     0.00    0.00  152.50   21.65    0.00     0.00   73.35
2001               SUEZ GULF                    45.00     0.00    0.00  152.50   30.76    0.00     0.00  104.24
1997/01            UNI                           3.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       165.82   50.06    0.00   335.50  120.23   37.06     0.00  208.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Metro                           15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1999               Sidi Knr                        70.00     0.00      0.00    122.00
2000               ACB Expansn III                  9.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001               Suez Gulf                        3.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001               Port Said                        3.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002               SEKEM                            4.00      0.00     1.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      104.00      0.00      1.00    122.00
- 89 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                          & North   middle-
Egypt     Africa   Income     Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (milliows)                      65.2       301     2.164                 Lrfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method. USS)                   1,530      2,000    1,240
GNI (Atlas method, USS$ billions)                    99 9       601     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Populabon (%)                                         1.9        2 0      1.0     GNI
Labor force(%)                                        2.9        2 9      1.2     GNI                             Gross
per.,                          pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995.01)                             capita                       enrolment
Poverty (% of population beow national poverty line)   23
Urban population (96 of total popul aon)               43        58        46
Ltfe expectancy at birth (years)                       67        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lhe births)                42        43        33
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)               4        15        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X ofpopulatIon)    95        89        80
Illiteracy (% of populabon age 15+)                    44        34        15
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   100        97       107              Egypt.ArabRep
Male                                                104       103       107              Lowar-nmddle4ncome group
Female                                               96        90       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                          23.4     37 0       99.3     98 5
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                29 5     21.2       18.3     16.9                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicsiGDP           33 4     27 8       16 3     17.4
Gross dormestic savngs/GDP                  14.1     13.2       11.7     12 2
Gross nabonal savingsiGDP                            32 3       17.4     171
Current account balance/GDP                  -9.1    10.3       -1.2      0.0     DomesUe                      ne     n
Interest paymentsGP                          2 5      2.5       0 7       0.7     savmgs                      Investment
Total debtUGDP                              94.3     67 3       29.2     28.6
Total debt serv,ce/expotas                  17 0     48.3        8 3      8.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                       23.1
Present value of debtexports                           ..      106.5
Indebtedness
198X141  1991401     2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.0      4.7      5 1        3 5      45          -     Egypt, Arab Rep.
GDP per capita                      2.4      2 7      3 1        1.6      3.1               Lower-middle-inmome gn7up
Exports of goods and services       6.3      3.1      3.8        3.3      41
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                       30
Agnculture                                  201      17.6       16.7     16.9
Industry                                    37.7     33 2      331       33.2                        20 
Manufacturing                              13.0     16.6      193       193      lo;
Services                                    42 2     49 2      50 2      500       o'
Pnvate consumption                          66.9     75.6      78 6      77.7    910     s     97   98     99        01
General govemment consumpton                19.0     11 2       9 7      10.1                    GDI     -GDP
Imports of goods and services               48 8     35 8      22 9      22.1
(average annual growth)                  1981-91  199141       2000     2001      Growth ot exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  2 7      3.2        3 4      3.3     oA
Industry                                     3.9      4 4       12 1      3.6
Manufactunng                                         6 8       7.9       4 5
Services                                     6.6      51         1.6      3.1
Pnvate consumpton                            3.9      3 8       5 8       1.1           go    97  v       9S
General govemment consumption                1.6      2.6       0 4       5.7    4
Gross domestic investment                   -2 3      7.4      -4 6       6 8            -     Exports         mpo
Imports of goods and seivices               -1.9      2.8       4 4      -1.1
Note 2001 data are pratlrrilnary esrmtes.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the county (in bold) compared Aith ib lincorup verage. Itf data are nismng, the diamond wit be incm lete.
- 90-



Egypt, Arab Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                           1981    1991      2000     2001      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    14 7       2 8      2.4
Implicit GDP deflator                       1 2    14.5       6.6      3 2
Governrment flnance
(X of GOP, includes current grants)                                            o
Current revenue                              ..    23.0      21 7     203             96   97    98   99    o 
Current budget balance                       .     - 7        1.1     -21                 GDP deflator     CPi
Overall surplus/defiat                      ..    -15 2      -3.9     -5 5    .
TRADE
1981    1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   4,250     6,388    7,078      ODO00
Cotton                                          2,334     2,273    2,650
Other agncufture                           .,      83       167      145     15,000
Manufactures                                     1,163    2,844    3,108    |
Total imports (cd)                          ..   11,425    17.860   16,432    10.1s0
Food                                       ..   1.802     1,395    1,473      ,000
Fuel and energy                            ..   1.062     2,451    3,233
Capital goodrs                              .   3,340     5,639    3,696        o-
Export pnce index (1995=100)                ..     105       101      104            ss  ss   97  91   99   00  01
Import pnce index (1995=100)                ..      91        87       79              . * Exports    * bn0po
Temmsof trade (1995=100)                            115       116     132
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ md/1ions)                            1981    1991      2000     2001     cCurrent account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             6,536  10,236    15,981   16,925     1 .
Imports of goods and services            10,405  13,472    22,755   21.772
Resource balance                         -3.869  -3,236    4,774    4,847         95 9-      97
Net income                                -497    -363       932     1,072    -1
Net current transfers                     2.230   7,419     4.679    3,742                               w
Current account balance                  -2.136   3,820    -1,163     -33
Financing items (net)                    2,606      23     -1,862     -32
Changes in net reserves                   -470   -3,843     3.025     865
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)             4,763    15,795   14,927
Conversion rate (DEC, ocalIUS)              0 7     3.0       34       3.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                 Composdton of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    22,078   24,869    28,988   28.124
IBRD                                     540    1,887     1,686    1,596                      A 1,596
IDA                                      393     902      1,334    1,369              G 3.045       B 1,369
Total debtservice                         1,551   6,748     1,793    1.827           F    272             D 894
IBRD                                      48     339       189      201
IDA                                        3      15        29       35
Composition of net resource flows
Oflaial grants                           201       0         0
Ofricial creditors                      1,518    135       -587    -774
Pnvate creditors                         617    -202       -201     -90
Foreign dimct investment                 753       0         0
Portfolioequity                            0       0         0                             E 20,948
World Bank program
Commitments                              235      31         0        0      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            217     105       107      264      B-IDA    D-Othwrmulblateral  F-Private
Pnncipal repayments                       12     203       153      138      C-IMF                     G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                205     -98        -46     125
Interest payments                         39     151        65       98
Net transfers                            166    -249       -111      27
uevelopment tconomics                                                                                         W1,2iU



Additional Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
A. Introduction
An incremental cost analysis of the activities for which incremental funding is requested from GEF was
carried out. The baseline is described in section B. Section C illustrates the alternative course of action
for which funding from GEF and other donors is requested. In section D, the comparison of baseline and
alternative activities is carried out broken down according to the MRMP II sub-components. An
incremental costs matrix is presented in Section E.
B. Baseline scenario
The legislative framework for environmental protection includes Law 102/83 for the Natural
Protectorates, Law 4/1994 for the Environment and the adoption of the Biodiversity Convention
(CBD). The regulatory framework includes the establishment of natural protectorates over 9%
of the total area of Egypt, the adoption of EIAs in all new development projects as well as
regulated hunting of protected species and the "National Study on Biological Diversity",
completed in 1996, followed by releasing the "National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan"
in 1998. Institutional capacity in the project area is limited. The Environmental Management
Unit (EMU) of the Matruh Govemorate has a legal mandate for ensuring environmental
protection including water and air pollution, solid waste management, and environmental
monitoring but lacks both financial and human resources to carry out its mandate. Within the
proposed project area, there are two initiatives worth mentioning in terms of contribution to the
baseline namely, the establishment of a protected area network by EEAA and the MRMP II.
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA)
EEAA has identified four sites within the project area with unique biodiversity and ecological
characteristics to be declared in the future as Protected Areas as part of its framework to create a
Protected Areas network consisting of 28 additional protected areas in the country. It is
anticipated that under the current plan of the Agency, the declaration of these PA will be
undertaken over the coming five to ten years depending on priorities and availability of funding
at both central and local level. Limited capacity exists at the national level to address needed
institutional strengthening, capacity building, improving awareness and fostering private sector,
NGO's and research institutes to support the implementation of the strategy and action plan. In
addition, funding for recurrent costs of present and future PA can not be fully met under the
present budget constraint. This situation is thus likely to increase the risk that the "National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan" generates a protected area network through decrees with
very limited actual biodiversity conservation actions taking place. For these reasons, no funding
to the baseline scenario has been considered from the EEAA in this analysis.
Matruh Resource Management Project (MRMP II)
MRMP II will devote substantial efforts in the conservation, rehabilitation and sustainable
utilization of the natural resources through (a) the development of water harvesting and
watershed management practices; (b) the livestock and range activities specifically designed to
arrest the present rate of degradation and to start to return the natural resource base to
something nearer to its former status; (c) the promotion of sustained natural resources use at
- 92-



community level; and (d) increased agricultural production from cereals, livestock and
agro-forestry; safer and environmental friendly agricultural production environment; enhanced
environmental attention on agricultural products; improved integrated pasture-crops practices
bringing about more environmentally stable production systems.
From an environmental point of view, MRMP II will have linkages with projects in other
regions of Egypt (thus not accounted for in the baseline) such as (a) the GEF/UNDP
Conservation of Wetlands and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region (MedWet)
biodiversity conservation project currently in about its second year of operation; (b) the
GEF/UNDP Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants in Arid and Semi-Arid
Areas of Egypt biodiversity conservation project; (c) the Italian Cooperation Sustainable
Development of the Siwa Region project located in the Sahara Desert to the south of the MRMP
II project area, and (d) the multi-donor Mediterranean Basin Regional Drylands Management
Project.
The proposed MRMP H thus lends itself to the adoption of a comprehensive approach to
ecosystem management, as it combines integrated management of biological diversity, land,
water and energy resources in agricultural production systems and pastures through the shift to
multiple cropping featuring legumes, agro-forestry development, pasture regeneration,
non-timber products development, fuelwoood production and soil and water conservation. In
addition, the overarching participatory approach will provide a forum for engaging the
inhabitants to conserve, rehabilitate and sustainably use and manage the natural resource base.
These combined actions will have a positive impact on the local ecosystems by ensuring that the
available natural resources (water, pasture, agricultural land, wild resources) are utilized in an
equitable and sustainable manner. In addition, these activities will produce limited global
environmental benefits in the form of endemic species protection in pastures. However,
implementing the baseline scenario will result in limited protection of biodiversity, and will not
address the lack of capacity in environmental planning, management and monitoring needed to
control urban encroachment, tourism development and other human activities that pose serious
threats to the ecosystems. Furthermore, the traditional approach of addressing the resource
challenges in a sector-by-sector manner will inevitably result in fragmentation of the policies
and interventions.
C. Alternative scenario
With the introduction of the GEF alternative, a set of complementary as well as substitutional
activities would be implemented to ensure that global environmental benefits are attained. The
GEF alternative will build on the baseline scenario to (i) achieve biodiversity conservation and
improved integrated natural resource management of further areas of the NWCZ through the
establishment of protected areas, community-based species conservation initiatives and various
type of soil and water management practices in both the agriculture and livestock sectors; (ii)
establish local and national capacity to ensure adequate management of the resources in a
sustainable manner; and (iii) increased attention to natural resource use at community level
through environmental awareness and enhanced capacity of resource planning and management.
The support of GEF will also ensure that lessons learned in this project can be replicated in
other areas with similar characteristics within Egypt and in the region. This potential
replicability is one of the major strengths of the project.
Replicability will occur on a number of levels. At the local level, the beneficiaries will undergo
formal and informal training in environmental matters, including environmental friendly
-93-



farming practices, the protection of flora and fauna and the sustainable use of natural resources.
All this should lead to project initiatives being extended in the project area. Farmers from
outside the are will be brought to the project and shown various demonstrations. Training will
also be given to them. Thus, elements of the project will be applied in other parts of the country
and beyond. Indeed it is noticeable how the planting of olives etc has spread far beyond the
project area. Because protected areas will be established in the project area, training will be
given to EEAA staff on their establishment and management. People from other countries will
be offered training and project staff will also be sent to 'National Parks' in other countries, so
there will be a two-way learning process. Govemorate environmental staff will be trained by the
project and it is anticipated that they will apply their training to the rest of the Govemorate and
beyond.
At the national and regional level training will be offered and the initiatives of the project will
be expounded through videos, articles, newsletters, by the GEF and the World Bank and other
communication channels. Thus it is anticipated that the project will have a large replicability
potential.
D. Incremental costs
The baseline and GEF altemative are synthetically described below according to the six MRMP
II sub-components in order to estimate the incremental costs for which funding from GEF and
other donors will be requested. For a more detailed description of these activities, see section IV
of the PIP.
I. Communitv Development
Capacity Building of Communities (Baseline cost US$3.7 million, cost of alternative US$3.8
million). The main objectives of this sub-component of the baseline scenario is to strengthen the
communities capacities to plan and manage natural resources to achieve improved and sustained
local development. These community development activities will mainly contribute to achieve
sustainability under the form of increased attention to natural resources use at community level
and enhanced resources planning and management capacity. Some limited species protection
and biodiversity conservation will take place in the baseline.
The GEF altemative will build on these activities to improve community awareness and interest
on global environmental issues by funding an environmental education program. The
incremental cost for GEF financing is US$0.1 million. The main global environmental benefits
include increased community awareness and education on the global environment, improved
capacities of managing biodiversity at commnunity level and better conservation of endemic
species.
Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity (Baseline cost US$4.1 million; cost of
alternative US$4.4 million). As part of baseline activities, the Project will contribute to building
women's capacity through (a) the support of literacy classes for women (for 3 years) and basic
education for girls, (b) nutrition, hygiene and health sensitisation programs, including
promotion of the construction of latrines, and (c) environmental awareness programs to assist
women to participate in sustainable utilization and management of the resource base. These
activities will provide domestic environmental benefits such as improved use of energy,
decreased pressure on pastures and sustainable use of wood resources.
-94-



The GEF alternative will build upon the baseline activities and will support an environmental
awareness programs to assist women in sustainable utilization and management of their
community's resource base. It will also support appropriate interventions to improve the
kitchen environment and ensure sustainability of household energy supply. Particular emphasis
will be put on support towards the substitution to alternative energy technologies for women
(e.g. gas/solar cookers ) as a means of reducing pressure on wild plant species used for fuel
wood. The GEF funded incremental cost associated with these activities is US$0.3 million. The
sustainable utilization and management of the community's resource base which will take place
as a result of the awareness program will generate global benefits such as an improved
conservation of endemic range species through reduced gathering of threatened plants as well
as improved energy efficiency and conservation of biomass resources in general.
11. Integrated Natural Resource Management
Land and water resource management (Baseline cost US$13.0 million, cost of alternative
US$15.7 million including incremental co-financing of US$1.3 million). The activities identified
in this component of the baseline include (a) the construction of water harvesting and watershed
management measures (cisterns, reservoirs, dykes, terraces, reseeding of range areas and
shelterbelts against erosion), (b) training of project staff on land and water management; and (c)
training of beneficiaries on maintenance of the water management structures. These baseline
activities will produce substantial domestic benefits such as better managed resource base in
water scarce ecosystems, increased water infiltration, reduced soil erosion, increased land
productivity, more secure household water supply and increased fuelwood production
In the GEF alternative, some watershed measures such as tree belt plantations, reseeding and
land leveling are estimated to contribute to global environmental benefits including biodiversity
conservation through better soil and water management, limited species protection, and
decreased land degradation. The GEF funded cost of these watershed measures is estimated at
US$0.3 million. In addition, enhanced endemic species development will derive from water
harvesting and watershed management measures. The estimated incremental co-financing by
IFAD, beneficiaries and GOE associated with these measures is estimated at of US$1.3 million..
- 95 -



Range management (Baseline cost US$1.0 million; cost of alternative US$1.8 million including
incremental co-financing of US$0.4 million). The baseline scenario will include the
establishment of (a) Pilot Grazing Management Units (PGMU) where appropriate use of land,
water and vegetation is expected, (b) plantation of fodder shrub to reduce the pressure on
pastures and (c) Rangeland Protection Areas (RPAs) to provide an in situ source of germplasm.
These interventions will be supported by adaptive research as well as technical assistance and
extension on assessing the rangeland resources conditions. These activities will generate
domestic benefits such as restoration and sustained productivity from pastures, higher income
from open range activities, and reduced expenditure on animal feed for farmers.
In the GEF alternative, global environmental benefits such as enhanced germplasm resources,
protection of endangered species, collection and dissemination of local seeds and aggressive
reseeding activities with endemic species will be generated. The part of the cost of the
rangeland management activities to be supported by GEF includes range management extension
activities (outreach sessions), technical assistance, training and the establishment of Rangeland
Protection Areas and amounts to US$0.5 million. In addition the establishment of PGMU and
fodder plantations as well as training in range extension have been considered to directly
contribute to global environmental goals such as biodiversity conservation and protection of
endangered species. Fifty percent of the cost of these activities (US$ 0.36 million) has been
considered as incremental co-financing by The World Bank and IFAD.
Bio-Diversity Conservation. (No baseline cost; cost of alternative US$3.6 million including
PDF-B US$0.3 million and incremental co-financing of US$0.4 million). Three main activities
will be implemented under the biodiversity conservation sub-component. These activities will
consist in establishing: (i) community biodiversity conservation mechanisms; (ii) protected
areas at El Qasr and Salloum; and (iii) capacity building in environmental management.
Domestic benefits such as employment opportunities from the establishment of two Protected
Area both in conservation activities and in eco-tourism, enhanced livelihood of communities,
enhanced institutional capacity for environmental management and protection on resource
utilization but also urban, water and air pollution will be generated by the GEF alternative. The
main global environmental benefits will include (a) unique habitat and endangered flora and
fauna conserved; (b) a variety of indigenous species identified, conserved and managed by the
communities and in Protected Areas; (c) community conservation to halt erosion of globally
significant gernplasm; and (d) enhanced skills in ETA and M&E for environmental protection of
the global environmnent.
Community biodiversity conservation mechanisms (GEF contribution US$0.8 million). This
activity aims at assisting communities to conserve, rehabilitate and manage in a sustainable
manner the natural resource base through developing appropriate community-based institutional
processes and mechanisms. The GEF grant will support (a) biological surveys; (b) the
establishment of biodiversity hotspots and other community conservation areas which will be
used to demonstrate community conservation activities; (c) awareness building; (d) open
classrooms for environmental education and sustainable income generation alternatives; (e)
demonstration of alternative energy technology trials; and (f) small scale eco-tourism
operations.
Establishment of Protected Areas (GEF contribution US$1.2 m and GOE incremental
co-financing US$0.4 million). It is proposed that the designated areas at Saloum and El Qasr be
chosen as Protectorate areas. The GEF ant will support the establishment and management of
- 96 -



these two protected areas for five years. The envisaged support includes stakeholder agreement
on boundaries, protected area declaration, boundary demarcation, management plan compilation
with full involvement of local communities, establishment of management structure, stakeholder
involvement in protection and commercial management, and protected area management and
operations. The government incremental co-financing covering the recurrent costs of the
biodiversity management unit is estimated at US$0.4 million. It is envisaged that EEAA
finances a progressively increasing percentage of the salaries of rangers and guards as well as
vehicles, motorcycles and office operation and maintenance costs so as to reach 100% funding
of these items by the year 5. Recurrent costs funding will represent a yearly expenditure of
87,000 US$ after project completion.
Capacity building in environmental management (GEF contribution US$0.9 million). The GEF
grant will finance the appointment of four staff from the Nature Conservation Sector of the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (NCS/EEAA) who will constitute the project
Biodiversity conservation unit. In addition, the GEF contribution will provide the Governorate's
office with two part-time 'environmental' experts over the five years of the project. These
experts will provide environmental training in environmental assessment, integrated
environmental and resource management planning and environmental monitoring. They will
train trainers and help with course compilation of training material for the project.
PDF-B (GEF contribution US$0.3 million)
I. Supportfor Income Generating Activities
Agricultural and livestock production (Baseline cost US$3.0 million; cost of alternative
US$3.5 million). The baseline activities will provide increased agricultural production from
cereals, livestock and agro-forestry, safer and environmental friendly agricultural production
environment, enhanced environmental attention on agricultural products, and improved
integrated pasture-crops practices bringing about more environmentally stable production
systems.
In the GEF alternative, global environment conservation benefits such as agro-biodiversity
conserved and used in ways that can be shared with other countries; use of indigenous
species in various formations in arable agriculture, orchards, along roads and around
compounds are anticipated. GEF funding of US$0.2 million for rangeland research
sub-projects and related equipment will be provided.
Off-farm income generating activities (Baseline cost US$0.9 million, cost of alternative
US$1.5 million). In the baseline. promotion of off-farm income generating activities will
mainly assist women to increase family income through engaging in income generating
activities such as poultry production, handicrafts, and small-scale agro-processing e.g. jam
making, through access to small loans, skill and management training and marketing advice.
GEF funding of US$0.6 million is provided for technical assistance aiming at promoting
environmentally sound production and marketing conditions. The global environmental
benefit is the potential for production and marketing of domesticated medicinal and herbal
plant species that would result in the alleviating of pressure off the wild and threatened
varieties. In addition, the promotion of environmentally sound marketing (eco-labelling) for
all products can be seen as a global benefit.
- 97 -



IV. Rural Roads (Baseline cost US$4.0 million)
In response to the demands of communities, the Project will construct around 136 km of
asphalt feeder roads. In view of the expected high demand for road construction, stringent
selection criteria will be established to take into account access to markets, social needs,
population served and cost effectiveness No contribution to the altemative course of action is
envisaged from this component.
V Revolving Fund /Rural Micro-Finance (baseline cost US$3.6 million)
The Development Initiatives Fund (DIF) will be used primarily to explore the scope and
feasibility of extending technologies and approaches introduced under MRMP to other
rainfed areas in Egypt, principally North Sinai and parts of the Red Sea coast. No
contribution to the alternative course of action is envisaged from this component.
VI. Project Management (Baseline cost US$2.9 million)
As part of the baseline, the Project will fund the necessary staff, premises, equipment,
vehicles, staff development, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation systems for
efficient and effective management of the Project. No contribution to the alternative course
of action is envisaged from this component There is the possibility that the improved
environmental management capacity of development institutions related to the project could
generate global environmental benefits.
- 98-



E. Incremental cost matrix
As explained above, the incremental costs of the altemative scenario were derived according to each
MRMP II sub-component. These costs and the domestic and global environmental benefits are
displayed in the following matrix.
Components of MRMP H                        Baseline                       Alternative                 Increments
GEF
Others
A. Community development
Capacity building components
Global Environmental Benefits    Limited species protection and  Increased community awareness and
biodiversity conservation.     education on the global environment;
improved capacities of managing
biodiversity at community level; better
conservation of endemnc species.
Domestic Benefits                Enhanced education leading to better Increased pnority being put on
use of local natural resources;  biodiversity conservation through
enhanced skills in natural resources community participatory approach;
planntng and use for communities  Improved capabilities of communities
and MRMP staff;                individually and communally to manage
resource conservation; better use of
water and fuelwood.
Total costs ('000 US$)                        3.722                            3.840                        118
including physical and price
contingencies
Strengthening of Women's
Development Capacity
Global Environmental Benefits    Environmental awareness enhanced  Enhanced endemic range species
through workshops; Positive long  conservation deriving from reduced
term impact of environmental   pressure for energy wood; substitution
education on the global        effect decreases pressure on collection
environment;                   of threatened plants.
Domestic Benefits                Improved community hygienic    Improved use of water and energy and
conditons; improved educatioii  decreased pressure as well as
increasing chances of employment  sustainable use of wood resources
for women in rural areas
Total costs ('000 US$)                        4.095                            4.371                        276
including physical and price
confingencies
B. Integrated Natural
Resources Management
Land and Water Resource
Management
Global Environmental Benefits    Limuted benefits in terms of reduced Biodiversity conservation through better
land degradation               soil and water management; and limited
species protection
Domestic Benefits                Better managed resource base in  Increased efforts to mitigate soil erosion
water scarce ecosystems; increased  and protect soil
water infiltration; reduced soil
erosion; increased land productivity,
more secure household water supply;
increased fuelwood production
Total costs ('000 USS)                        14.408                           15.670                    2701.262
including physical and price
contingencies
- 99 -



Rangeland Management
Global Environmental Benefits    Limited conservation of biodiversity Biodiversity conservation through
in rangeland                  improved range management and
germplasm resource enhancement;
protection of endangered species;
collection and dissemination of local
seeds; aggressive reseeding activities
with endemic species
Domestic Benefits                Rangeland productivity increased;  Restoration and sustained productivity
reduced pressure on rangeland  from pastures; higher income from open
ecosystem; establishment of    range activities; and reduced
community based range management expenditure on anmmal feed for farmers.
systems
Total costs ('000 US$)                        879                             1.791                     554358
including physical and price
contingencies
Biodiversity conservation
Global Environmental Benefits    Unique habitat and endangered flora Unique habitat and endangered flora
and fauna under threat; limited  and fauna conserved; variety of
retention of C in soil and vegetation; indigenous species identified, conserved
biodiversity reduced; negative  and managed by the communities and in
environmental impact of land use  Protected Areas; Community
changes                        conservation to halt erosion of globally
significant germplasm; Enhanced skills
in EIA and M&E for environmental
_____________________________    protection of the global environment
Domestic Benefits                                               Employment opportunities from the
establishment of two Protected Area
both in conservation activities and in
eco-tounsm; enhanced livelihood of
communities; enhanced institutional
capacity for environmental management
and protection on resource utilization
but also urban, water and air pollution.
Total costs ('000 US$)                         0                              3.589                     3.195394
including physical and price
contingencies
C. Supportfor income
generating activities
Agriculture and livestock
production
Global Environmental Benefits    Increased use of indigenous species Agro-biodiversity conserved and used
in agriculture and livestock   in ways that can be shared with other
production processes;          countries; use of indigenous species in
various fonmations in arable agriculture,
orchards, along roads and around
compounds
Domestic Benefits               Increased agricultural production  Gennplasm system operating to receive
from cereals, livestock and    dryland plant material and multiply both
agro-forestry; safer and       in situ and ex situ
environmental friendly agricultural
production environment; enhanced
environmental attention on
agricultural products; improved
integrated pasture-crops practices
bringing about more
environmentally stable production
_systems.
Total costs ('000 US$)                       3.308                            3.505                       197
- 100-



including physical and price
contingencies
Off-farm income activities
Global Environmental Benefits                                   Limited positive impact on rangeland
endemnc species
Domestic Benefits                Reduced pressure on the range and
reduced fuelwood gathenng due to
improved cooking conditions
Total costs ('000 USS)                        888                             1.448                      5600
including physical and price
contingencies
D. Rural roads
Global Environmental Benefits    Use of indigenous species in road
protection
Domestic Benefits                Limited contribution to eco-tounsm
Total costs ('000 US$)                        4.044                           4.044                       00
including physical and price
contingencies
E. Revolving Fund/Rural
Micro-Ftnance
Global Environmental Benefits
Domestic Benefits                Possibility of extending
environmental fnendly technologies
to other parts of the country
Total costs ('000 USS)                        3.634                           3.634                       00
including physical and price
contingencies
F. Project management
Global Environmental Benefits   Improved management capacity of
environmental protection through a
artlpaoryaDroach
Domestic Benefits                Better trained personnel in
AnvMronrental affatrs
Total costs ('000 US$)                        2.943                           2.943                        00
including physical and price
contingencies
BASELINE, ALTERNATIVE                        37.922                          44.836                    5.1702.014
AND INCREMENTS: Total
costs ('000 USS) including
physical and price
contingencies
PERCENT                                                                                         72%28%
Note these costs include the voluntary contnbution of the communities and their obligation in recognition of inputs received
- 101 -



Additional Annex 12: Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
STAP Reviewer:      Dr. J. Michael Halderman
Date:               March 02, 2002
Key Issues
1)     Scientific and technical soundness of the project
The Second Matruh Resource Management Project (MRMP II) has been carefully and thoroughly
designed following sound technical and scientific principles. This conclusion is based on a careful
review of the February and March versions of the Project Appraisal Document, including relevant
annexes. The project's main objective is to improve the welfare of stakeholders, especially the more
disadvantaged in rural areas, and contribute to poverty alleviation. The approach will be based on
community-driven development (CDD) that aims at strengthening communities' capacities to organize
themselves and participate effectively in community-based planning, implementation and monitoring of
activities aimed at development and the conservation, rehabilitation and sustainable management of the
natural resources. The MRMP II intends to achieve these goals through (relevant to GEF funding) three
components: (1) community development, (2) integrated natural resource management, and (3) income
generating activities mainly targeting women. The indicative financing plan totals nearly US$56 million
over the five-year project implementation period (2003-2007).
Scientific and technical aspects relating to environmental protection, biodiversity conservation, carbon
sequestration etc in the arid area of the northwest coastal zone of Egypt in which the project is located
are sound. The approach to community-driven development is appropriate, and the project's heavy
emphasis on CDD reflects the emerging (but long overdue) recognition that decentralized, participatory
approaches to rural development and Natural Resource Management (NRM) are much more effective and
sustainable than other approaches. The project's CDD approach and technical aspects, in particular those
for which GEF funding of US$5 million are requested, are fully consistent with the GEF's Operational
Program # 12, Integrated Ecosystem Management.
2)    Identification of the global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks of the project
By supporting activities aimed at achieving global environmental benefits, the GEF funding sought is
intended to complement the activities of the "baseline project" funded by The World Bank, IFAD,
stakeholders and the Government of Egypt. The project is designed to achieve several local, national and
global environmental benefits, all consistent with Operational Program # 12: (a) conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity, as well as equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of
biodiversity; (b) reduction of net emissions and increased storage of greenhouse gases in terrestrial
ecosystems, (c) conservation and sustainable use of water bodies, including watersheds and coastal
zones. The March revision of the Incremental Cost Analysis (Annex 4) describes and explains in
considerable detail the specific national and global environmental benefits the project intends to achieve
from the different project components. The Project Appraisal Document and Annex 4 helpfully
distinguish between the baseline project and the GEF alternative, and they clearly explain for each
component the complex funding situation.
-102-



3)     Project fit within the context of GEF goals, operational strategies, program priorities and
relevant conventions
The MRMP nI project in general, and the GEF-funded components in particular, fit well with the above
criteria. The project and GEF-funded components incorporate the principles, and are clearly directed
toward achieving the potential benefits, of Integrated Ecosystem Management (IEM) presented in
Operational Program # 12. Economic and social factors are integrated into ecosystem management, and
the LEM activities at various levels are intended to be flexible and to incorporate lessons learned into
project efforts. It is significant in regard to flexibility and incorporating lessons learned that: (a) the
proposed MRMP II is based heavily on lessons learned in the course of implementing the first Matruh
Resource Management Project, (b) the design of MRMP II is also based on the conclusions and
recommendations of a recent World Bank financed study of eight projects with a CDD approach in the
Bank's Middle East and North Africa region.
Participatory approaches are central to the MRMP II strategy of ecosystem management and sustainable
development. The project addresses the GEF focal areas of biological diversity, climate change and
international waters, as well as land degradation. The project aims to strengthen relevant institutions and
make investments based on the principles of integrated ecosystem management. The MRMP II project
accords with the Convention on Biological Diversity, the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, and the UN Convention to Combat Desertification.
4)     Regional context
The MRMP II project is located in the western part of the Northwest Coastal Zone (NWCZ) of Egypt that
extends from El-Saloum, on the border with Libya, about 320 km to the east towards Alexandria, and
inland from the coast for about 44 km. To the north of the project area is the Mediterranean Sea, to the
south is the Sahara Desert. The natural habitat is dry rangeland, with annual rainfall ranging from about
150 mm in the NE to about 20mm in the SE. The area is inhabited by Bedouin, and the current
population is estimated at about 230,000 (30,000 households). This area is different from most other
parts of Egypt in that rainfed agriculture is practiced and the traditional tribal structure remains largely
intact. The Bedouin have been settling in recent decades, and there has been a shift from the
semi-nomadic, ecologically balanced pastoral system to potentially unsustainable systems of natural
resource use that include significant sedentary agriculture. Some Bedouin move between Egypt and
Libya, while others have migrated to Cairo and other urban areas. The location of the project area on the
Mediterranean Sea has led to some coastal areas being developed as tourist centers. Enforcement of
existing environmental regulations is very weak.
5)     Replicability of the project
If the project is successful in its efforts there will be considerable scope to replicate the approach in
similar areas of Egypt, the Middle East and North Africa. The MRMP II is reportedly the first project of
its kind in Egypt to  attempt to develop a participatory, cross-sectoral planning and implementation
mechanism that emphasizes both economic development and environmental sustainability. The project
intends to develop a replication strategy that will include documentation and wide dissemination of
information to, inter-alia, govemment planners and decision makers, as well as other development
projects. The MRMP II will exchange experience and lessons learned with the GEF/UNDP MedWet
coastal project and the results will be disseminated throughout the region. For the first time in Egypt, an
effort will be made under this project to provide credit to marginalized communities, primarily to women,
with the participation of the commercial sector. The (a) integrated resource management techniques, and
(b) M&E methods to assess the anticipated increase in the store of carbon in plants and soil as a result of
- 103-



project activities, are expected to serve as models useful in similar areas of the country and region.
6)    (Anticipated Effectiveness and) Sustainability of the project.
The designers of MRMP H correctly recognize and emphasize that a community-driven development
approach is necessary for the project to achieve its intertwined developmental and environmental goals
on a sustainable basis. The biggest challenge facing the project will be to implement a successful CDD
system in the project area. Thus, when examining sustainability it is first necessary to assess the
likelihood of the project itself performing as planned.
The first MRMP project was designed to follow an innovative, participatory development approach
focused on the identification and implementation of Community Action Plans (CAPs) by the local
community groups. It was further expected that by the end of the project period the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) will no longer be needed. For a number of reasons, however, the activities of the first phase
were essentially designed and implemented by the PCU using a top-down approach with only limited
participation from local communities, especially when formulating CAPs. The PCU has operated in an
enclave manner, independent of the parent ministry from which its staff were seconded. There has been
very little contact with other government agencies and ministries. The PCU has had full administrative
and financial autonomy, including the disbursement of project funds. Over the years, the PCU has
acquired considerable experience with the implementation of an IDA-funded project and is considered
well suited to continue managing the second phase of the project.
Those charged with designing the second phase of the MRMP are clearly aware of the difficulties and
challenges involved in successfully promoting an effective CDD approach that primarily targets the poor.
Criteria and procedures will be established to assist communities to target the poor and women for
project resource allocation, with control systems put in place. Very considerable resources will be
devoted to capacity building at various levels (see number I I below). The CDD approach will need to be
tailored to fit the traditional, male dominated Bedouin society and other existing socioeconomic
conditions.  The objective is that the project assist the communities so that they can take responsibility
for the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of development and environmental
activities. It is intended that in MRMP II the PCU will be initially responsible for activity
implementation. As the capacity of local communities is strengthened, responsibility will be gradually
but progressively transferred to communities. Some of the proposals presented in Annex Three of the
MRMP Formulation Report, however, for what is expected to be accomplished in regard to CDD under
the project seem too optimistic. The same might also be said of the project goal to so broadly implement
a CDD approach within the five year implementation period of MRMP H.
In regard to community-driven development, three key points should be kept in mind: (a) highly skilled,
well trained individuals are needed at the interface with local communities, (b) efforts should be taken to
identify early on comrnmunities with real (if latent) potential to successfully carry out community-based
activities, (c) elite capture at all levels is a real possibility. The designers of MRMP II seem aware of
these points and have taken steps to address them.
The MRMP II project is to take a number of steps appropriately aimed at promoting sustainability of
services and activities. Efforts will be made to mainstream access (especially for women and girls) to
education and health services currently provided by the project.  Efforts will also be made to provide
residents of the project area with access to micro-finance on a sustainable basis, and to find an
institutional home for the Matruh Adaptive Research Center (MARC). The GEF will fund environmental
staff in an effort to strengthen environmental work in the Governorate office during the project period,
and the Govemorate will take responsibility for the work at the end of the project. The Egyptian
- 104-



Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) is to take responsibility for the two protectorates (nature
conservation areas) that will be established under the project.
To achieve sustainability it is very important that before the end of the project period: (a) effective
actions be taken to fully integrate the work of the PCU into the Governorate and other concerned
organizations, (b) an effective coordination mechanism between key actors (local government, Tourism
Development Authority, Ministry of Planning, Northwest Coast development Agency, the Army) be
established.
Secondary Issues
7)     Linkages to other focal areas
The MRMP II project is multi-focal covering biodiversity conservation, climate change, international
waters and land degradation.
8)     Linkages to other programs and action plans
The   second Matruh Resource Management Project will have linkages with the GEF/UNDP
Conservation of Wetlands and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region (MedWet) biodiversity
conservation project currently in about its second year of operation. MRMP II is also anticipated to have
linkages with: (a) the GEF/UNDP Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants in Arid and
Semi-Arid Areas of Egypt biodiversity conservation project, (b) the Italian Cooperation Sustainable
Development of the Siwa Region project located on the edge of the Sahara Desert to the south of the
MRMP II project area, (d) the multi-donor Mediterranean Basin Regional Drylands Management
Project, (e) The GEF-UNDP Small Grants Medicinal Plants Project that has been approved and aims to
conserve medicinal plants in the NWCZ, (f) a Swiss Fund project intended to conserve biodiversity in the
NWCZ. There are also several Bank financed projects in Egypt dealing with agriculture, irrigation and
drainage. MRMP II intends to collaborate with these projects to enhance the sharing of information
regarding M&E systems.
9)     Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects
The rationale for GEF financial support to the MRMP H is that it will significantly promote local,
national, regional and global environrnental benefits. Various environmental benefits are clearly
presented in the project documents. No damaging environmental effects have been identified.
10)    Stakeholder involvement
The MRMP II will affect and/or be influenced by a large number of stakeholders. The first MRMP is
already known in the project area, the Governorate and Egypt. The stakeholders of the second MRMP
will include the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA), the Govemorate, the National Coordination
Committee (NCC) and its members, and the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) at the Governorate
level and its members. (The Army is a key actor affecting the environment in the project area and is
therefore an important potential stakeholder.) It is intended that the NCC take a more active role in
project affairs in phase two. The MRMP IH plans to update the mandate and membership of the PCC to
ensure full representation of various actors in the region: governmental, non-govemmental, donors,
research institutions. It is envisaged that local conmmunity representatives be included on the PCC. As
noted above, to date the project has had very little contact with other government bodies.
- 105-



GEF funding will partially finance the secondment of three staff from the Nature Conservation Sector of
the EEAA to support the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and make up the project management unit for
biodiversity activities. This unit will be responsible for the implementation of activities concerning
protected areas management, species conservation and training in protected area management, flora and
fauna conservation, and community participation in conservation. The GEF contribution will also
finance two part-time experts in the Governorate EMU.
The changed focus of the second phase of MRMP will lead to organizational changes within MRMP 11.
The main project objective will become the further improvement of the welfare of the stakeholders,
especially the more disadvantaged rural residents, and contribute to poverty alleviation.  Project
documents often use the term "stakeholders" as if the term were synonymous with residents of the project
area, yet to date this category of stakeholders has had very little organizational or institutional clout in
regard to project management and affairs. The inclusion of community representatives on th.e PCC,
noted above as a possibility, would be an important step to increase such community involvement.
Because of the significantly increased emphasis on community participation and capacity building in
MRMP 11, a Corimmunity Planning Facilitation Unit (CPFU) will be set up. In the first year of the second
phase of MRMP, there are plans to carry out a participatory evaluation of the implementation of the
existing CAPs. On the basis of this evaluation, it is anticipated that an initial participatory planning
exercise will establish the development framework for each community and a CAP for the first year. In
addition: (a) the broader focus on NRM and conservation will result in a Natural Resource Management
Department, and (b) a separate Gender Unit will be established with its own budget and greater
operational autonomy. These organizational changes are necessary efforts to promote the interests of the
specific categories of stakeholders involved.
11)    Capacity building
The project proposal correctly emphasizes the need for capacity building at various levels to sustainably
achieve MRMP lI's objectives. Under component A (Conmmunity Development) there will be extensive
capacity building of communities. This will include training for local community representatives and
other community members on a wide range of appropriate subjects, including basic training in
environmental protection and environmental assessment. The objective is to strengthen the local
communities' capacities to enable them to plan, implement and monitor their own development. Women
will be provided with training to ensure that they have the same access to information as men. The
project will also support literacy classes for women and education for girls.
There will be increased emphasis on extension, with more farmer involvement and a new community
based extension outreach effort through the training of Community Facilitators. Promotion of off-farm
income generating activities will mainly target women through the provision of training, access to credit
and market linkages. In regard to marketing and agro-processing, emphasis will be placed on improving
marketing awareness and the business skills of both the beneficiaries and project staff.
GEF funding will support a wide range of capacity building. The goal will be to develop community,
project and Govemorate capacity to manage environmental resources in a sustainable manner. The funds
will promote formal and informal environmental education in schools and in each of the 38 community
centers. Environmental curricula will be developed for both children and adults. Local knowledge and
oral history will be recorded. There will be a project sub-component to strengthen women's development
capacity that will include socioeconomic surveys and specialized training. Under component B
(Integrated Natural Resources Management) GEF funding would strengthen the field level environmental
capacity of the project, Governorate and Nature Conservation Sector of the EEAA (including the
- 106-



secondment of three staff referred to above). National and international experts will also be contracted to
provide training in a number of fields.
12)   Innovativeness of the project
The Second Matruh Resource Management Project is an innovative effort to fully blend GEF financing
into a project also financially supported by IFAD, the World Bank, local stakeholders and the
Government of Egypt. Significant efforts will be made under the project to promote community-based
development in an attempt to achieve genuine, sustainable poverty reduction and environmental
objectives. This comprehensive and multi-sectoral project well reflects the spirit and intent of the GEF's
Operational Program # 12.
Response to STAP Review:
It is encouraging to note that the STAP review is, in general, very positive. The project team is in
agreement with the guidance provided by the STAP reviewer regarding participation and sustainability
aspects. The team is fully aware of the difficulties of implementing a full-fledge Community-Driven
Development (CDD) approach, and is indeed proposing to limit the Project ambition to furthering the
participatory approach, transferring more responsibilities to the communities in the decision making and
resource allocation process and emphasizing capacity-building, so that, by the end of the project, the
communities will be capable to negotiate with other government and non-government agencies for the
delivery of services and investments. To this end, community development professionals will be
recruited to strengthen project staff, and an NGO (from outside the region, if it exists) or international
consultants, specialized in community development will provide training to project staff and support to
local communities for Community Action Plans development. In addition, local communities will be
represented at regional levels and project headquarter level (in the Project Coordination Committee).
Finally the project will support local communities to register under the Association Law, so that they be
recognized as legal entities by other government and non-government agencies.
Elite capture is indeed a concern for the World Bank team. As a safeguard against this, the planning
process will be lowered to the aila (clan) level, instead of the higher level (sub-tribe) which was
considered under the first project. In addition the result of the planning process will be presented and
discussed with all the heads of households so as to optimize the spread of information. Ensuring a
widespread information process is indeed one of the best tool to prevent elite capture.
To achieve sustainability, the Project intends to collaborate not only with EEAA, but also with the
education and health services of the Govemorate, either involving them in project activities or
implementing these activities through them. The Project Coordination Committee will include these
different stakeholders' representatives to ensure that access to services on the long run is established and
maintained for the local communities.
- 107-



Additional Annex 13: Expected Biodiversity Conservation Benefits from the GEF-Funded
Activities
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
The fully integrated implementation of Project interventions will ensure that a coherent approach is
established. Benefits resulting from range rehabilitation will serve also the objectives of biodiversity
conservation as well as carbon sequestration. Improvements in soil integrity and water management and
the adoption of an integrated ecosystem planning approach will serve to ensure the sustainability of
achieved global environmental benefits. Important lessons can be leamed from the monitoring of
multiple benefits and documentation of successful participatory management methods.
Floral and Faunal Diversitv: In temLs of species diversity, the North West Coast (NWC) zone of the
Mediterranean is one of Egypt's five primary "biodiversity hotspotys" containing some of the most
important areas for the diversity of wild terrestrial fauna and flora in the country. 47% of the total floral
species of Egypt is present in the project area. Of these, 16 species and sub-species are endemic to Egypt
and the region, including the ebenus armitagei (near endernic to Egypt and Lybia), zilla baiparmata (near
endemic to Egypt, Lybia and Tunisia), allium mareoticum (endemic to NWC zone) and echinops
taeckholmianus (endemic to the NWC zone). Recent surveys on plots where access to communities have
been prohibited (e.g. by army camps) prove the occurrence of some rare or extremely rare plant species
in these 'protected' spots, indicating that the regenerative capacity of the region is still high, provided
proper conservation and management is applied.
The western Mediterranean coast region has one of Egypt's richest herpetofaunas, holding some 36
species. The prominent components of the herpetofauna include: Loggerhead Turtle (Carreta carreta),
the geckos (Stenodactylus mauritanicus, Tarentola mauritanica), the lizards (Acanthodactylus scutellatus
, A. boskianus, A. pardalis), the agamid (Trapelus mutabilis), Desert Monitor (Varanus griseus),
Common Chamaeleon (Chamaeleo chamaeleon), the snakes (Spalerosophis diadema, Macroprotodon
cucullatus, Malpolon monspessulana) and Green Toad (Bufo viridis). The Egyptian Tortoise (Testudo
kleinmanni) has virtually vanished from the greater part of its former range in the western Mediterranean
coast. Very small, highly fragmented and isolated populations (or even individual animals) might still
exist in marginal habitats in the transitional zone between the more mesic coastal habitat and the xeric
interior.
A total of 169 bird species have been recorded or are thought to occur in the Saloum region. Of these
some 35 species breed locally, the rest are passage migrants or winter visitors. Breeding species include
Cream-colored Courser (Cursorius cursor), Desert Wheatear (Oenanthe deserti) and Crested Lark (
Galerida cristata). Thekla Lark (Galerida theklae) and Raven (Corvus ruficollis) are two species
restricted in Egypt to the Saloum ridges and cliffs. Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) probably also
breeds on the sea cliffs of Saloum, the only locality in Egypt. The region supports several avian species
restricted to the Mediterranean Biome, some of which have very restricted distribution in the country:
Thick-billed Lark (Ramphocoris clotbey), Dupont's Lark (Chersophilus duponti), Temmink's Horned
Lark (Eremophila bilopha) and Red-rumped Wheatear (Oenanthe moesta). The last species has
undergone a severe decline in the past decades and has almost disappeared from its Egyptian range due to
habitat degradation. The region was also an important breeding habitat for the threatened Saharan
Houbara Bustard (Chlamydotis undulata undulata), but Gulf Arab hunters have decimated the local
population. The species still occurs but breeding is localized and rare.
At least 33 species of mammals are (or were) known from the western Mediterranean coast of Egypt,
roughly representing a quarter of Egypt's terrestrial mammalian fauna. The region holds by far the richest
- 108-



rodent community in the whole of Egypt composed of 19 species, including two globally threatened
species, the Four-toed Jerboa (Allactaga tetradactyla) and the Greater Jerboa (Jaculus orientalis). These
species suffer largely from habitat destruction, but are also subjected to intensive collection pressure by
wild animal traders. Dorcas Gazelle (Gazella dorcas) is a threatened species that used to be very common
in this region only three decades ago, but has since declined sharply, and probably largely disappeared, as
a result of excessive hunting, disturbance and habitat destruction.
The proposed Protected Area of El Saloum has been identified as one of Egypt's highest biodiversity
conservation priority areas. It contains unique habitats of many floral and faunal elements only known in
Egypt from this small region. The Crested porcupine (Hystrix cristata) and Thekla lark (Galerida
theklae) are examples of species only known in the country on the Saloum cliffs. The region contains the
largest remaining tract of relatively intact and undisturbed coastal habitats in the whole of the Egyptian
Mediterranean coast, and is one of the least populated. The proposed Protected Area of El Qasr
represents a fairly undisturbed example of a unique and restricted habitat in Egypt - the Mediterranean
coastal steppe - a habitat that is being lost and degraded very rapidly in Egypt. The area extends from
south of the coastal plain to some 50 km inland, and encompasses all the transitional zones from the
Mediterranean vegetation belt in the north to near pure desert in the south. The area has a high
conservation and scientific value. It includes a variety of landscape features and a diversity of habitat
types and biological components that are marginally represented within Egypt's current network of
protected areas. As the area falls on the boundary between the Mediterranean and Saharo-Sindian
Biomes, it supports assemblages of fauna and flora, characteristic of both biomes. The maintenance of
representative examples of these characteristic assemblages is of prime importance, equal to that of
conserving threatened taxa.
- 109-



Additional Annex 14:Environmental Management Plan
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
I. OBJECTIVE
The objective of this Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is to identify the environmental mitigation
measures, screening process, capacity-building and monitoring activities that will be undertaken, as well
as the institutional arrangements that will be set up, during implementation of the MRMP II to ensure that
any potential adverse enviromnental impacts are either eliminated or minimized. The EMP also proposes
an implementation schedule for undertaking these activities and indicates their costs included in the
project budget.
H. MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
The overall environmental impacts of the MRMP 11 are expected to be positive, including increased
environmental awareness (particularly among women), improved range and watershed management,
sustainable agricultural practices, enhanced biodiversity conservation, and expanded protected area
management. The project will not negatively alter the ecosystem nor cause significant environmental
harm during the undertaking of water harvesting and road construction works. The inclusion of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) component will ensure that environmental considerations are
mainstreamed in the MRMP II by seconding Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) staff to the
MRMP 11 Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and strengthening the capacity of environmental staff in the
Matruh Governorate's Environmental Management Unit (EMU). Furthermore, the GEF component will
finance, among other activities, the establishment and management of two protected areas at Saloum and
El Qasr within the project area.
A. ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND RECOMMENDED MITIGATION
MEASURES
Overall, activities financed under the MRMP 11 will have positive environmental impacts. The
environmental benefits from project activities in MRMP I are noticeable and will continue to be so in
MRMP II - indeed the very fabric of the project is to improve the natural resource base in order to
alleviate poverty. The Environmental Assessment (EA) process identified the following issues, addressed
below, for which potential impacts and mitigation measures are detailed:
1. Drinking Water Quality:  In discussions with PCU technical staff the EA identified drinking water
quality as the primary potential issue related to the water harvesting activities of the MRMP 11. A 1994
GTZ water analysis of selected cisterns in the North West Coastal Zone concluded that concentrations of
E. coli (indicator enterobacterium for bacteriological contamination) in water collected from cisterns
were 1,000-10,000 times WHO guidelines. (E. Coli are a particular type of coliform bacteria whose
presence in drinking water is more serious than other coliform bacteria because they are disease-causing.
They indicate that water has been contaminated by sewage or animal wastes that contain other
disease-causing micro-organisms which can cause severe diarrhoea, cramps, and nausea.) Unfortunately,
no more recent water quality data are available. While discussions with the local population on the most
prevalent diseases indicated that the above water-related diseases were not perceived as the highest
importance (diseases related to malnutrition and eye infections were the most frequently quoted), it is
recommended as a matter of prudence to implement proper mitigation measures to minimize any potential
risks.
- 110-



Source Mitigation Measures. Mitigation measures at the source include improved water management
practices and water quality monitoring:
*      Cisterns will be dredged approximately every three years to restore the dead storage capacity
taken up by sedimentation. (Silt loads captured thanks to silt traps, while minimal in quantity, may be
re-utilized as organic fertilizer in agricultural areas, as they may contain a certain level of nutrient washed
away from topsoil by wind and water erosion.)
*      Ideally, animals would be kept away from the cistems used for drinking water, or at least away
from the part that serves as the catchment area. In addition, wherever possible, separate cisterns should be
built for human and animal purposes, instead of cisterns that provide for both uses contemporaneously.
However, since most of the smaller famnilies with limited income levels would have difficulties in
drawing such a distinction (since they will only have one cistern for use by the family, for supplementary
irrigation and for stock watering), water management practices that could be adopted by lower-income
families will require that animal drinking troughs be kept away from human-purpose cistems, and use
project- supplied hand pumps and hose to convey water to the animals at a distance of about 30 meters
away.
*      Cisterns specifically used as potable water sources for humans should be closed during the first
rainfall and re-opened at the second. It is also recommended that cisterns be closed during the first 10-15
minutes of every rainfall. Although these recommendations may be difficult to implement given the
extreme shortage of water in the region, project beneficiaries should regardless be advised of this option.
*      A new drinking water quality analysis will be undertaken by the MRMP II in collaboration with
the Ministry of Health, and periodic water quality monitoring will be incorporated into the project
monitoring program.
Water Treatment Mitigation Measures. Treatment mitigation measures involve the sterilization of water.
This will require further work in the context of MRMP II, in addressing the various alternatives to water
sterilization. Some options to obtaining sterilized drinking water are suggested in Annex 1.
*      The MRMP II will undertake awareness-raising with respect to improving drinking water quality
(promoting filtering, Solar Water Disinfection (SODIS), chlorination, or boiling water, as appropriate) in
the local communities, primarily among women.
*      The MRMP II will study appropriate alternative renewable energy sources for power generation
for water treatment Alternative energy sources will also be sought to power micro-enterprises in the
remote rural communities of the project area, and consider the provision of various types of stoves (using
renewable energy) for cooking and boiling water. Solar and wind energy options will be explored and
demonstration units established at each community, with cost-benefit analyses conducted.
2. Planning and Implementation of Range Rehabilitation Units: The EA also identified potential
environmental impacts related to the range rehabilitation activities of the MRMP II. The location/spacing
of "biodiversity islands" (range protected areas) should be planned, and a map of proposed areas
developed, to incorporate possible corridors (e.g. for wildlife), but also to maintain a connectivity
between the areas for habitat (such as habitat for pollinators). Minimum tillage should be practiced, as
excessive tillage promotes wind and water erosion. Nutrient management also needs to be optimized. Silt
captured from silt traps, animal waste, and human excrement collected from latrines are rich in nutrients
and could be used as organic fertilizer. A more detailed description of the proposed mitigation measures
is given in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
3. Construction of Small LC activities (community centers, latrines and cisterns): Finally, the EA
-1 1 -



identified potential environmental impacts from the small-scale LC infrastructure activities and rural
roads financed by the MRMvIP II. Planning the location of these sub-projects should be done through a
participatory approach and addressed in the Community Action Plans. Construction and operation of the
structures should follow the good practices/mitigation measures outlined in the Environmental Guidelines
Manual. The construction of cisterns must: (i) incorporate a silt trap, sediment basin and sieve on the
inlet side of the cistern to reduce the sediment load; (ii) separate cisterns for drinking water from those
for animal and irrigation purposes; and (iii) avoid collecting water from the first rainfall as this carries the
highest level of pathogenic micro-organisms. Contamination by animal waste should be avoided, and
training should be provided on the long-term maintenance of these structures.
4. Rural Roads: Roads should be selected through a participatory approach and designed to interrupt
cross-drainage as little as possible. Where the road interrupts natural drainage, culverts and siphons will
be installed. Road design should ensure that roads will not significantly impede the passage of wildlife.
Road construction will ensure, to the degree possible, non-susceptibility to erosion from floods by
planting trees along the road to act as wind breaks and soil fixators. Construction and maintenance should
follow the guidance provided in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING OF ACTIVITIES
To ensure that activities financed under the MRMP II are in compliance with Egyptian environmental
requirements (and consistent with World Bank safeguard policies), the Biodiversity Unit will screen
each Local Community Annual Work Program and Budget for activities for potential adverse
environmental impacts, following the procedures presented in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
The WB team will give a "no objection" to the Local Community Annual Work Program and Budget, and
will review a sample of activities during supervision missions to ensure that proper environmental review
and mitigation have been implemented. In summary, the review process will involve the use of
environmental screening checklists (prepared with and reviewed by staff from the Biodiversity Unit) to
ensure environmental safeguard compliance and to determine whether sub-projects require formal review
in accordance with procedures established by the EEAA in its Guidelines for Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA Guidelines). The EIA Guidelines implement the EIA requirements of Environmental
Law No. 4/1994 and its Executive Regulations and establish the procedures for environmental screening
and approval of projects with potential environmental impacts by EEAA. The MRMP II will utilize the
checklist screening process and EEAA EIA Guidelines to meet the environmental assessment safeguard
requirements of World Bank OP 4.01.2.
Other safeguards that have been addressed by the EA are:
OP 4.20 (Indieenous PeoDles) The objective at the center of OD 4.20 is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse
effects dunng the development process. In the case of MRMP 11, the Bedouin people comprise the entire population living in the
target area, and therefore OP 4.20 is triggered. However, since: (i) the Bedouins are the sole project beneficiaries; (ii) MRMP 11
was prepared using a participatory approach; and, (iii) all project interventions have been designed to improve the status of the
Bedouins (poverty alleviation, access to water, access to health and education. improved rangeland management, etc.) while
taking into account and building upon their cultural specificities, there is no need for the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan.
OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). The Project will undertake the identification and declaration of two protected areas (PAs)
in the project zone. These will be defined, based on their biodiversity significance, status of degradation and potentials for
conservation and alternative economic activities that can be built on the new conservation status. The process will be undertaken
with the full participation of the local conmmunifies in the identification of the PAs and the design and implementation of the PA
management plans, as is the case in other similar established PAs in Egypt. The issue of possible loss of income or means of
livelihoods resulting from the loss of access to resources triggers OP 4.12 (para 36 on access to natural resources). These losses
will be assessed when the boundaries of the PAs will have been established. If it is established that the PAs will result in loss of
income or means of livelihood, the Project will provide compensation through supporting alternative economic activities. The
- 112 -



preparatory and consultation work with the stakeholders and local communities to deternnine the boundaries is expected to take
two years. The GOE prepared a Process Framework outlining the steps and participatory process to: (i) determine the boundanes
of the PA; (n) design the Protected Area Management Plan; (iii) define the cntena of eligibility for vulnerable and affected
persons and the means to assist the affected persons, if any, in their efforts to improve their livelihoods or at least restore them;
(iv) identify the potential conflict resolution mechanisms and the monitoring and follow-up arrangements (see Annex 15).
No other activities financed under the Project trigger OP 4.12. In particular, works financed under the Project do not entail any
involuntary resettlement or involuntary land acquisition issues.
Under the EIA Guidelines, projects with potential negative environmental impacts are classified into
three categories (similar to WB coding, but in opposite sequence) according to the severity of
environmental impacts:
*      A list projects for those with minor environmental impacts
*      B list projects for those that may result in substantial environmental impacts
*      C list projects for those that may require complete EIA due to potential severity of impacts
The EA determined that the vast majority of MRMP II sub-projects with potential adverse environmental
impacts are small in scale with minimal impact and thus are not expected to require formal EEAA review.
A few sub-projects, e.g., rural roads, may be A list projects and thus require EEAA or Matruh EMU
review. No MRMP II sub-projects are expected to be B list or C list projects. The EIA Guidelines set out
the procedures for complying with the EIA requirements. The level of environmental screening and
procedures for review and approval by EEAA vary by category and are detailed in the Environmental
Guidelines Manual. The BDCU/PCU will ensure that MRMP II sub-projects comply with these screening
procedures.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND CAPACITY PROGRAM
In order to ensure proper implementation of environmental screening and mitigation measures, as well as
effective watershed and range management, biodiversity conservation, and protected area preparation and
management, the MRMP II will undertake an intensive program of environmental training and
institutional capacity building.
A. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINIG FOR PCU/EEAA/EMU STAFF AND LOCAL
COMMUNITIES
The MRMP II will provide national and international experts to deliver training to PCU management and
staff, EEAA field staff, and Matruh EMU personnel designed to build capacity for effective
environmental management under the project, including environmental review, assessment, and
mitigation of all significant project-financed activities and implementation of the integrated ecosystem
management approaches supported by the project. Such training will cover environmental policy and
regulations, range resource inventory and evaluation, carbon sequestration and biomass inventory,
socio-economic surveying, species monitoring and evaluation, protected area management, land use
zoning and participatory training on the specific environmental issues and mitigation measures identified
by the EA. It will also include training trainers and providing refresher courses in all of the topics
identified.
As part of the Community Development component, the MRMP II will provide basic training to local
community representetives and members of the wider community in integrated environmental
management/protection and environmental screening/impact assessment, and biodiversity/range
management practices. Also, to strengthen development capacity among women in the communities, the
MRMP II will promote environmental awareness programs to assist women in effective management of
- 113 -



potable water resources and in sustainable utilization and management of the natural resource base. The
GEF activities will promote formal and informal environmental education, including the design of
curricula and preparation of educational materials, in the schools and at the community centers in the
project area.
- 114-



B. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR THE PCU, EEAA, AND MATRUH GOVERNORATE EMU
The MRMP II will build environmental management capacity within the PCU by establishing a new
Natural Resource Management Department comprising units for Land and Watershed Management,
Range Management, and Biodiversity Conservation. The latter unit will require additional PCU
environmental management staff and will include three staff and a manager appointed from the Nature
Conservation Sector (NCS) of EEAA (financed by the project) to work with the PCU for the life of the
project. These EEAA/NCS field staff will be responsible for implementing the activities related to
Protected Areas designation and management, including species conservation, community participation in
biodiversity conservation, and training in Protected Areas management. Vehicles and equipment also will
be provided in order to support the implementation of the new activities related to biodiversity
conservation under the project.
In addition, the MRMP II will provide the Matruh Govemorate's EMU with two part-time environmental
experts, i.e., an environmental screening/impact assessment expert and an environmental monitoring
expert, for the five-year life of the project. These experts will work closely with EMU environmental
staff, -Matruh Govemorate officials (particularly in land-use planning and coastal development) and
project staff to provide training in environmental screening and impact assessment, integrated
environmental and resource management planning, and environmental monitoring and evaluation. They
will train trainers and assist with course compilation of training material for the project. As needed by the
Matruh Govemorate, these experts will also perform duties outside the project to ensure the
implementation of an integrated ecosystem approach to the region, regarding development and
compliance with environmental laws in urban areas and in coastal tourism centers.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
Although the MRMP I established a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E Unit) to perform regular
monitoring and evaluation of project activities, the M&E Unit did only limited environmental monitoring.
Thus the MRMP II will have to build capacity within the M&E Unit, as well as in the new Natural
Resource Management Department, to perform specific environmental monitoring and evaluation
functions for the project.
A. MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
MITIGATION MEASURES
The Biodiversity Conservation Unit, in coordination with the M&E Unit, will assume responsibility for
monitoring compliance with environmental screening requirements and implementation of any mitigation
measures for activities required, either by EEAA or the Matruh EMU, as a result of environmental
screening. Furthermore, the M&E Unit will periodically monitor specified indicators of environmental
impacts of the MRMP II (e.g., drinking water quality, incidence of water-borne diseases, terrestrial
biodiversity, rangeland regenerative capacity). This environmental monitoring will be incorporated into
the overall MRMP II monitoring plan required as part of project performance by the World Bank. The
results of such monitoring will be recorded and reported in the PCU's bi-annual progress reports to the
Bank and will be reviewed by Bank supervision missions. In the context of the GEF program, the
Biodiversity Conservation Unit will develop a specific monitoring program, with verifiable indicators
(e.g., changes from baseline conditions in diversity of flora and fauna, area devoted to community
conservation efforts, area devoted to cultivation of medicinal herbs), to monitor and evaluate progress in
achieving and sustaining expected global environmental benefits. A set of performance indicators for the
implementation of the EMP has been included in the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
- 115-



B. MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
Where the Natural Resource Management Department, through its technical units, undertakes specialized
studies, surveys or research efforts, it will assume responsibility for monitoring the results and evaluating
the impacts. For example, under the GEF component, the Biodiversity Conservation Unit (BCU) will test
the regenerative capacity of rangeland plants under various management regimes in order to assist in
estimating the carrying capacity of the rangelands. Environmental monitoring of this sort will be used to
evaluate and support the biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem management approaches
promoted by the project. A set of monitoring indicators for the biodiversity and ecosystem has been
included in the Enviromnental Guidelines Manual (Table 4).
V. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation of the EMP will be shared among the PCU, EEAA, and the Matruh EMU. The PCU has
overall responsibility for implementation of the MRMP II and will ensure that the EMP is fully integrated
into implementation of the project. The PCU will ensure that sub-projects with potential adverse
environmental impacts undergo environmental screening and monitor their implementation of required
mitigation measures. The PCU will also work closely with the EEAA/NCS staff seconded to the PCU in
carrying out their training programs and other activities related to biodiversity conservation and protected
area management.
The EEAA/NCS staff appointed to the PCU will be responsible for implementation of the activities
related to Protected Areas management and biodiversity conservation and will work from within the PCU
in carrying out these activities. The EEAA/NCS will also manage the national and international
consultants contracted to provide training to the PCU, EEAA/NCS field staff, and EMU staff on
integrated ecosystem management issues.
The Matruh EMU will ensure that MRMP II sub-projects directed to it for review are screened and
approved in a timely manner under the EEAA EIA Guidelines. The EMU will also manage the
environmental experts contracted to support it in its environmental responsibilities and ensure that they
coordinate closely with the PCU and the EEAA/NCS field staff.
B. PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Implementation of this EMP will begin with review and refinement of the Environmental Guidelines
Manual in the first quarter after project effectiveness. The PCU then will undertake implementation of
the main mitigation measures recommended and begin the screening process for sub-projects, continuing
these activities throughout the life of the project.
Training programs will take place throughout the life of the project, on the basis of identified needs, with
scheduled training for PCU and EMU staff occurring early in project implementation, followed by
training programs in the local communities. Such training would be revisited, updated, and delivered on
an annual basis, as needed. EEAA/NCS staff will be seconded full-time to the PCU for the life of the
project, while the environmental experts financed for the EMU will be part-time for the life of the
project.
- 116-



The monitoring program for environmental screening will run continuously for the life of the project,
while periodic monitoring will be used to evaluate the impacts of mitigation measures and track baseline
environmental conditions in the project area.
The proposed schedule for imnplementing the various components of the EMP is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: EMP Implementation Schedule
Major EMP Activities     1IstQ     2nQ   3rQ   4tQ   IlstQ   2nQ   3rQ   4tQ   I stQ  2n  3rQ   4tQ
'03   '03   '03   '03  '04   '04   '04   '04   '05  Q     '05   '05
_  _                      '~~~~~~~~~05
Environmental Mitigation
Measures_
-Env. Guidelines Manual
-- Main Mitigation Measures 1             -1_7-
-Environrnental Screenin    i     i   13     i     i     i                 a               i
Training and Capacity
Program___
-Environmnental Training
- PCU management/staff                           __
- Matruh EMU                    =     =    =           =    =     =           =     =    =
-_mmnuunities                                              a=   -ll1
-EEANCS seconded staff 
Environmental Monitoring
Program
- EnvirornmentalSreig e 
-Mitigation Measure Impacts             !                           _@
--Baseline Changes _     L__
-1 17 -



C. ESTIMATED IMPLEMENTATION COSTS
The estimated costs of implementing the various components of this EMP are displayed in Table 2. These
costs are included in the total costs of the MRMP II and are financed with funds from the World
Bank/lFAD loan or from the GEF grant. No additional costs are envisaged as a result of the EMP.
Table 2: Estimated Costs er EMP Component
EMP Activity (MRMP II         Quantity             Costs     in      US$        Source
Component)                           _
Local      Foreign    Total
Training & Capacity Building
- community capacity building      Lump sum          50,000      15,000    65,000   WB/IFAD
- watershed/rangeland management   Lump sum         120,000      50,000    170,000  WB/IFAD
- biodiversity conservation &        23 s/m          11,500        0        11,500    GEF
environmental management (loc/ int'l)  11 s/mr         0         11,000     11,000    GEF
Environmental Monitoring Program
Biodiversity Monitoring (loc)       144 s/m          42,000        0       42,000     GEF
Biodiversity and EMP
ImplementationEEAA/NCS staffl(4     288 s/m         345,600        0       345,600  GEF/ GOE
national) seconded to PCU for 6 years           _
Environmental experts (2 national/ 1  72 s/m         108,000
int'l) for Matruh EMU for 5 years    3 s/m             0         10,500    118,500    GEF
(part-time)                                           _
Vehicles (BDU/ EMU)                    3               0         60,000     60,000  GEF/ GOE
Support for all activities
Office equipment (computers, printers,  Lump sum     25,000      15,000     40,000    GEF
etc.) (BDU/EMU)                         _
TOTAL                                          _    702,100      161,500   863,600
-118-



Additional Annex 15: Process Framework for Protected Areas
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
I. Introduction
1.     Project Development Objective
The overarching objective of this Matruh Resource Management Project II (MRMP II) is to contribute to
the improved welfare of the stakeholders, especially the more disadvantaged rural people and thus
contribute to poverty alleviation. This will be done through developing community capacity to access
services to improve their livelihoods and increase their income while at the same time strengthening their
capacity to conserve, rehabilitate and use their natural resources in a sustainable manner.
The objective will be achieved by:
(a)    assisting communities, including women and the poor, to organize themselves and participate in
community-based planning and implementation of development activities;
(b)    assisting communities to conserve, rehabilitate and sustainably manage the natural resource base
through appropriate community-based institutional processes and mechanisms;
(c)    improving smallholder sustainable agriculture, horticulture and livestock production;
(d)    promoting market-linked off-farm income generating activities, mainly targeting women; and
(e)    providing improved access to technical, financial and commercial services.
Within this framework of integrated resource management, GEF support is sought to address global
environmental concerns in the day-to-day management of resources, as well as to mainstream
environmental dimensions into the overall planning and implementation of development activities in the
area. Hence, a Biodiversity component is proposed that will support the establishment of two Protected
Areas in the project area. This support will include the preparation of consultative/participatory and
surveys prior to clear designation of the boundaries and the establishment of the participatory
management plan. The present Process Framework will ensure compliance with World Bank Policy OP
4.12.
The establishment of protected areas may incur restriction of access to resources by the local population
and therefore the Safeguard Policy OP 4.12 applies. The present Process Framework will ensure the
project's compliance with this policy.
2. Approach
The project will adopt a community-driven development (CDD) approach, tailored to the socio-economic
conditions of the communities. The CDD approach will of necessity be incremental and phased.
Gradually, it will require the involvement by local communities in decisions regarding resource
allocation, as well as their involvement in implementing, monitoring and evaluating all project activities.
One of the participatory tools used by the communities is the Community Action Plan (CAP). When
elaborating their CAPs, communities will choose from a menu of activities they have helped to identify
during project preparation and that are financed under the project.
The GEF initiative will be fully integrated within the MRMP II project and will use its rationale and
participatory methodology and tools. The (CAPs) will remain the privileged tool at the disposal of the
community to express and record their concerns, priorities and demands and to establish a participatory
partnership and dialogue with the other concerned parties, and in particular with the Nature Conservation
-119 -



Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency and the Matruh Governorate. Hence, the CAPs are
an important inclusive and sustainable tool to help the communities participate in the design and
implementation of the conservation plans.
3. Institutional Framework
Execution Bodies.  Building on MRMP I, the project's participatory approach to biodiversity
conservation and natural resource management in the protected areas will be carried out in close
coordination and collaboration with national, govemorate, and local level institutions. Execution
responsibility to implement the biodiversity conservation activities with autonomous funding will be
assigned to the Biodiversity Conservation unit of the PCU, technically affiliated to the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA). Coordination will be enhanced with the Govemorate and
relevant ministries to ensure the sustainability of services beyond the project life.
Governina bodies. The National Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of the National
Coordinator appointed by MALR will remain in place, but its membership will be revised and under
MRMP II, it should take a more active role in the affairs of the project. The NCC includes
representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation, the EEAA at central level, the
Secretary General of Matruh Governorate, the Project's Director General and Deputy Director General
and where appropriate, representatives of bi/multi-lateral projects being executed in the project area.
At Governorate level, the mandate and membership of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will be
updated to include representation of various actors in the region (Governmental, Non-governmental,
relevant projects) especially the health and education services. Now that the project will support the
Governorate Environmental Management Unit (EMU) and that the Nature Conservation Sector of the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (NCS/EEAA) will be directly responsible for the set-up and
management of the proposed two Protected Areas, these entities will become full partners in project
implementation and full members of the PCC at the Govemorate level. It is also envisaged that under
MRMP II, local community representatives will be included in the PCC.
The PCC would coordinate project implementation among the participating executing agencies, review
and approve annual work programs with budgetary allocations based upon the CAPs. It would facilitate
cooperation between the project and other projects and government agencies in the project area, in
particular regarding environmental sensitisation, health and female literacy programs.
Proiect implementation arranzements. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would coordinate the
implementation of the project activities through its five Sub-Regional Support Centers (SRSCs),
supported by research carried out under the Matruh Applied Research Center (MARC) The PCU has full
administrative and financial autonomy, including the disbursement of project funds.
To reflect project objectives and emphases, the PCU would be adjusted to comprise three management
units:
*     Community Development - with a Community Development Unit and Gender Sub-unit;
*     Integrated Natural Resource Management - comprising the Land and Water Management Unit
(including Roads); Range Management Unit; and Biodiversity Conservation Unit (NCS/EEAA appointed
staff); and
*     Income-Generating Activities - comprising Agricultural and Livestock Services Unit and an
Off-farm Activities and Micro-finance coordinator.
- 120-



The Biodiversity Conservation Unit will be headed by a EEAA appointed manager. The GEF
contribution will finance the appointment of three staff from the NCS/EEAA and will partially finance
the staff for the two PA's. They will be responsible for implementing the activities related to the species
conservation and training in protected area management, flora and fauna conservation, and community
participation in conservation. This unit will manage its own budget but will be located in the PCU to
facilitate coordination, a multi-disciplinary approach, monitoring and community participation.
Change in Manaaement Culture. The core concern of MRMP II is achieving sustainability through
fostering self-reliance and promoting community ownership of the development process. The focus on
building the capacity of the communities will require some changes in the management and technician
culture in order to create the space for the communities to develop their own managerial capabilities. It
will require Project management and technical staff to adopt a listening supportive and facilitating role
rather than an implementing role, and to identify fully with the participatory method of the project. This
culture and attitude change will contribute to increase the active role of the communities in designing and
managing the two protected areas' management plans their representatives and their CAPs.
II. General Principles of the Process Framework
A.     The Context: conservation and restriction of access to resources in the Protected Areas
The Biodiversity component triggers the Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement
specifically with regard to the loss of access to natural resources in protected areas. The biodiversity
component will finance all necessary studies, including the preparation studies, consultations and surveys
prior to clear designation of the boundaries and set-up of the participatory management plans. It is
essential that, for institutional sustainability and community support, these studies be conducted in a
participatory and consultative manner and that they include a full inventory of past and present human
uses and activities, both regular and irregular or occasional and emergency. Therefore the preparation
phase leading up to official declaration of the Protected Areas is expected to last for one to two years.
Following the preparatory phase, the official designation of the PAs may entail restricted access to
natural resources, mainly with regards to grazing and fuel wood cutting. It is envisaged that the
participatory management plans will include regulation for the use of natural resources within the PA's
as well as the provision of pertaining mitigation measures and alternative solutions based on community
involvement, and with the ultimate goal of ensuring the sustainable livelihoods of the communities with
biodiversity conservation.
All of the 23 established Protected Areas in Egypt were delineated under Law 102/1983 by a Prime
Ministerial Decree issued upon the proposal of the EEAA of the Cabinet of Ministers. The national
legislation defines the NCS/EEAA as the body mandated to manage and implement the provisions of the
relevant laws and decrees, with the object of conserving and protecting PAs. The law specifies activities
that are prohibited in Protected Areas, including hunting, damaging of plants and living organisms,
introduction of foreign species, pollution of water, air and soil and erection of buildings and structures
without permission. In the case of the PAs under MRMP II, it is expected that these limitations of access
will be small in scale, given the limited current level of human activities in the envisaged sites.
The process framework under this project describes measures to be taken that will ensure, in conformity
with Bank policy, that any material or economic losses to livelihoods or standards of living that result
from such restriction of access, and particularly those affecting the poorest and most vulnerable, will be
fully offset by corollary activities that will enhance incomes and improve their quality of life, and that
- 121 -



such measures will be consultative, monitored and evaluated.
B.     Process Framework for Community Consultation and Participation
Steps for the formulation of a participatory strategy. The participatory strategy will consist of: (i)
identification and carrying out a census of the people potentially affected by the project; (b) definition of
the eligibility criteria for the project-affected population; (c) formulation of the criteria for the
identification of vulnerable groups; (d) elaboration of the process for consultation and dialogue; (e)
propositions for the inclusion of the population in the implementation of the PA management plans.
1. Community awareness and mobilization
After the official declaration of the protected areas by Prime Ministerial Decree, a Protected Area
Management (PAM) office will be formed for each of the two PAs. Prior to the official declaration, and
through the support of the MRMP II project, the following preparatory steps will be undertaken:
-      Support for environmental awareness and education through formal and informal education
channels;
-      Inclusion of environmental dimension in the elaboration of the CAPs and training of community
representatives (mandubeen) to enhance their knowledge of environmental and conservation concerns;
-      Information gathering and analysis concerning the specific use of resources and their
socio-economic impacts and systematization of community knowledge on threatened and endangered
species;
-      Formulation of site-specific draft management plans; and
-      Adoption of measures aimed towards the protection of biodiversity in specific zones (hotspots) in
cooperation with the Biodiversity Management Unit within the PCU.
2.     Participatory process
The project is moving towards implementing a full CDD approach, which entails the involvement by
local communities in decision maldng regarding resource allocation, as well as their involvement in
implementing and monitoring all project activities. This will also be applied to the implementation of
biodiversity conservation and the establishment of the Protected Areas. Hence, the population will be
involved, to the extent possible, in the identification of the threatened or vulnerable resources as well as
the methods, locations and conditions under which stakeholders and affected populations utilize specific
resources and the actions that will result in their most effective conservation. This community
knowledge, which requires a change in technician behavior towards a more listening and consultative
stance, will be an input to the planning for resource use and for the definition and formulation of the
mitigation of negative impacts and alternative livelihoods options for the populations.
Precedents from management plans that are being currently implemented indicate that NCS/EEAA adopt
a fully participative approach in involving the beneficiary communities. For example, in the case of the
St. Katherine Protectorate, guards from within the communities are being used, and the Protectorate
management unit is involved in alternative income generating activities, including traditional handicrafts
and eco-tourism activities for the sustained benefit of the population. This model will be replicated
under MRMP II, making use of the lessons learned, given the similarity in socio-economic and cultural
- 122 -



settings of the population.
Community representation will also be ensured for the PCC at the local level. Modalities will be defined
to ensure that the interests of women are also represented.
3.     Key Steps for a Strategy
*     Identifcation of affected people: once the two PA 's are officially declared, a definition of people
directly affected by restriction of access will be made
*      Eligibility criteria of project affected people: criteria of eligibility for project benefits will be
defned including physical presence in the PA for a certain number of years, dependency on the resources
and benefits and claims of use of the resources
*      Criteria for the identification of vulnerable groups: Given the focus of the project on poorer
strata of the population, it will be important to identify from the onset of PA establishment those groups
will be most vulnerable to restriction of access. Criteria for the identification of these groups could
include: inability to fulfill their dietary needs, lack of other means for livestock feeding, use of small
plots for subsistence or having tenancy status, lack of access to basic infrastructure.
*     Measures to assist affected persons in their efforts to improve their livelihood: The participatory
process of formulating Community Action Plans, documented in the PAD, provides the methods and
procedures by which communities will identify and choose potential mitigating or compensating
measures to be provided to those adversely affected, and procedures by which adversely affected
community members will decide among the options available to them. Identified vulnerable and affected
groups will have priority in provision of alternative livelihood and income generating activities, as well
as water harvesting infrastructure if needed. The results of this will be included in the CAP and funded
incrementally by GEF as appropriate.
C.     Budget for the Execution of the Process Framework Provisions
The budget for the execution of the process framework is included in the overall project budget
(community capacity building, training, education, technical assistance and off-farm income generating
activities) in addition to an unallocated sum of $ 300,000 as Land Compensation Fund. The guidelines
for utilizing this fund will be detailed in the Operations Manual based on the eligibility criteria identified
at the onset of the project and will be used for provision of alternative livelihood sources of affected
population in case of lack thereof through other components of the project.
D.     Process of Consultation for Conflict Resolution and Modalities for the Settlement of Claims
In case of conflicting views and opinions concerning the utilization of resources, the mitigation measures
and alternative solutions, the PAM and PCC will be the forum for dispute resolution. If no acceptable
solution is reached, their claim should be presented to the NCC that will strive to reach appropriate
solution.
E.     Monitoring and Evaluation of the Process Framework
The measures taken to execute this process framework will be the responsibility of the Biodiversity and
PAM units, and will be monitored by the PCU management. While preparatory work under the process
- 123-



framework will start at project launch, the reporting on the imnplementation of the process framework will
only occur once the PAs are officially established. The monitoring reports will be submitted to the
project management and the PCC by the head of the Biodiversity Unit in coordination with the PA
managers and will be followed closely by the Bank during project supervision. The performance
indicators to ensure that the measures included in this process framework are taken into account are
included in the project log-frame:
*     proportion of appropriate management plans for the area implemented with community and
stakeholder involvement;
*     number of local communities actively involved in the management of hotspots and community
conservation areas and undertaking flora and fauna surveys;
*     rules and procedures to allocate resources among community members that are: (i) written in a
local community document (ii) known by community members; and (iii) implemented.
Evaluation of this process framework will be done annually during project implementation.
- 124-



Additional Annex 16: Socio-Economic Profile of Communities
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Table of Contents
I.   Profile of Bedouin Community
A.   Demographic features
B.   Social Organization
C.   Socio-economic Features
II.  Poverty Analysis
III. Vulnerability Issues
A.   Sources of vulnerability
B.   Farmers' coping strategies
C.   Institutional Coping Strategy
D.   Food Security
IV. Targeting
A.   Targeted Population
B.   Targeting Water Harvesting Activities
Tables
Table 1:   Distribution of Farming Systems by SRSC in Project Area
Table 2:   Tribal Distribution of Population by SRSC
Table 3:   Source of family income and its variability - (% of income)
Table 4:   Annual Cost Per Capita of Minimum Food Requirements at Marsa Matruh, 2001
Table 5:   Limits of Poverty Line at Matruh Govemorate, 2001-2002 - (7-Member Family)
Table 6:   Average Farm Resources By Economic Groups
Table 7:   Distribution of Population by Income Group (LE) by SRSC
Table 8:   Distribution of Households Without Cisterns by SRSC, and by Econornic Group
Table 9:   Distribution of Households without Dykes by SRSC and by Economic Group
- 125-



I.     Profile of Bedouln Community
A.     Demographic features
Geographic distribution of population
1.    MRMP management has administratively divided the project area into five sub-regions,
establishing five Sub-Regional Support Centers (SRSC) in order to bring services closer to the
beneficiaries. The total Bedouin population has also been sub-grouped into 38 Local Communities (LC)
or social units, each consisting of a few hundred households. These administrative arrangements have
been taken to facilitate effective bottom-up planning, community participation, and decentralized
management and decision-making. Geographical, hydrological, and tribal considerations have governed
these arrangements. The SRSCs are, from East to West, Hekma, Matruh, Negila, Barrani East, and
Barrani West.
Family Structure and employment
2.     Family structure. The concept of 'family' is a bit confusing for the Bedouins, unless clearly
defined by the investigator. Some would report data on the nuclear family, others on the extended family
since members of the latter are residing together. Many references (cited by Naggar et al, 1988) reported
an average size of the nuclear family of 6 members. This number was 7 in food cards registration of
WFP, and also as shown by the beneficiary database of MRMP.
3.     According to the adoption and impact farm survey conducted by MRMP on 2000-01, the average
family size of the sample was around 10 members, but the variability was very high (CV 70%, min and
max are 3 and 48 members, respectively). This high average of family size reflects the confusion above
mentioned; while some respondents used the nuclear family definition, others used the extended family.
The average family has 2 members "less than 5 year old", and 4 of each of the other age categories "5 -
18 years" and "over 18 years" (all age categories were equally comprised by males and females).
4.     Employment. The average number of the family members of working age, according to the farm
survey above, was 3 persons, with 2 members working on-farm, and the third working off-farm. The
variability was, however, very high (CV over 100% for the three variables; min and max were 0 and over
30 persons, respectively). Agricultural off-farm employment is available, and practiced by many poor
HHs, but except for livestock herding, it is casual and seasonal. Off-farm long-term employment was
reported (1997 credit and marketing survey) by only 17% of HHs. About 89% of the households involved
in off-farm employment have only adult male members doing such work, 10% have women involved, and
only 1% has child involvement in off-farm employment. About 53% of those involved in off-farm work
were working in trade, 41% have government occupations, and 6% were involved in both businesses.
Education
5.     The illiteracy rate is high, estimated at 70% for men between 6 and 30 years of age (Naggar et al,
1998). However, it seems that effective literacy education has taken place during the last decade. Data
provided by Matruh govemorate on the overall population of the Project Area showed an illiteracy rate of
only 31% for the year 2000; the rate was 40% for females, and 23% for males. Illiteracy rate was lowest
for Matruh district (23%), and highest for Barrani area (55%), and it was 41% for Negila, and 37% for
Salloum. Nevertheless, it should be noted that these data represent both urban and rural population, and it
- 126-



is most likely they are higher for the rural. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that the WID program of
MRMP has during the last few years educated over 4,800 illiterate Bedouin girls.
Settlement pattern
6.     At the top of the settlement hierarchy is the city; a population center of over 10 000, which
contains the directorates of various ministries; Agriculture, Housing and Construction, Social Welfare,
and Local Administration. It also contains public hospitals, secondary schools, the City Council,
veterinary directorate, and the like. In the Project Area, it is only the city of Marsa Matruh that complies
completely with this definition. There are three other cities in project area namely Sidi Barrani,
El-Salloum, and El-Negila.
7.     The village is the second level of settlements; a population center of over 5 000, and less than 10
000, and provides most of the services provided by the city but at a lower level and smaller scale.
8.     The third level is the najd or ezbah, which consists of several bayts the inhabitants of which
constitutes one kinship group. The members of each bayt (3-5 extended HHs) live closer to one another
than to the members of other bayts. The dwellings of the extended families are called hawshes. A hawsh
is typically a one-story building with 2-10 rooms, depending on who lives in it (Zoghby, et al, 1992).
9.     Most of the Bedouin population, or the rural HHs targeted by the proposed Project live in
relatively widely dispersed najd settlements, though some are living in the towns and the city of Marsa
Matruh. There are different typical rural settlements, reflecting the dynamic relationship between man
and his environment, so evident in the Bedouin life. The first type has taken place in the coastal strip up
to 10 or 15 km inland, where most of the population lives. It consists of a number of shops and a mosque
facing a railway station or bus stop along the highway running from Alexandria to El-Salloum, and
linked ecologically to nearby settlements or hamlets. This type of settlement is particularly prevalent
where friable soils are available. The second type of settlement has taken place around wells and cisterns
far away from the main settlements. They are scattered deep in the desert not less than 10 km south of the
railroad. These settlements are much smaller in size than the first type. The third type of settlement
occurs along canyons and washes, which run in a south-north direction. Orchards and/or field crops are
established in the wadis. A few tents are usually found along with fixed structures in these settlements,
and the inhabitants roam the vicinity in search of pastures.
10.   Individual dwellings within a settlement usually stand alone, separated from other dwellings by
some 50-100 m. The fixed structures are built of limestone blocks quarried in the area. They are roofed
either by timber covered with wooden sheets and mortar, or by concrete slabs, prevalent in recently built
homes closer to the coast. Dwellings are usually L-shaped with the outer sides facing north and
west-the direction of the devastating winter storms. The outside walls contain windows that are small
and high enough to not allow trespassing. The inside walls contain doors (one for each room) and
windows. The number of rooms depends on family numbers, and socio-economic status. Usually, a 3-
generation extended family resides together in a dwelling.
Agriculture and Farming Systems
11.    Land use is detenrined by rainfall, geo-hydrological characteristics, soil depth and structure,
and availability of water harvesting systems. Good and relatively deep soils in the wadis are exclusively
allocated to horticulture, land depressions for barley, and soils of inferior quality are left for pastures.
According to MRMP databases, arable land is about 16% of the total project area, approximately 4.11%
- 127-



(112 732 feddans) planted with orchards and from 4.68% (128 424 feddans) to 10.58% (290 370
feddans) cultivated with barley depending on the amount of rainfall. fallow varies from 1.31% (35 964
feddans) to 7.21% (197 941 feddans). About 42.95% of total area is rangeland (mainly dense and
medium), and 37.69% is very sparse rangelands, barren rocky areas and salt marshes which facilitate
water catchment and generates run-offs. Currently, orchards cover about 112 732 feddans (mostly figs
and olives), and crops (mainly barley) are grown on over 290 000 fed in wet years, but reduces to 128
424 feddans in low rainfall years. There are 627,000 small ruminants (mainly sheep, and goats), and
19,525 camels. Poultry are mostly kept for household needs, with a few commercial plants. Yields are
generally low and variable, averaged at 250-300 kg/fed for barley grain and 300-360 kg/fed for straw,
figs at 1,850 kg/fed, and olives at 1 280 kg/fed. However, a good potential for area increase and yield
improvement has been assessed.
12.   Crop production. Barley is the major crop grown in the project area. It is mainly grown to feed
livestock on grain, straw, and stubble. According to the credit and marketing farm survey, about 89% of
HHs grew barley. It is cultivated to a relatively greater extent in Barrani East and Negila, compared to
other SRSCs. The average barley area grown was about 14 fed, but the variability was very high (CV,
108%, min and max area was 0 and 180 fed). Differences between SRSCs were non-significant.
Ploughing is almost entirely done by tractors, as less than 1% used animals. The extreme majority (91%)
of farmers does not possess tractors. Most of the 9% tractor owners rent them to others for barley
cultivation or other uses. Only a few farmers hire tractors from the cooperative. Most farmers grow
barley on land depressions, receiving some run-off water from the vicinity. Only 6% of HHs established
dykes on barley plots for yield stability and improvement. More than 95% of barley growers use barley to
feed their animals, less than 2% to sell the product, and 3% for both purposes. Barley is normally
harvested late April through May. It is harvested by hand, plucking the whole plant, including
considerable parts of the roots. Roughly 93% use family labor for harvesting barley, 6% use hired labor,
and 1% family and hired labor. All farmers reported that in dry years no grain harvest could be possible,
and the crop would be grazed green, mostly by the farmers' livestock.
13.   A good proportion (70%) of farmers used to grow wheat a few years ago, as seeds were mostly
provided free of charge. Thereafter and due to the removal of the subsidy, the proportion of wheat
growers has drastically declined. A very small proportion of farmers grow small area of faba bean and
lentil.
14.   Fruit Production. The majority of the HHs are practicing fruit production, 80% are involved in
fig production, 52% have olive orchards, but only 10% have almonds and 8% have grapes. The average
number of fig trees was 180 tree/HH, but it was 380 tree/HH in Hekma, 200 in Barrani West, and about
110 tree/HH for the other SRSCs. The average number of olive trees was 50 tree/HH, but it was 70
tree/HH in Hekma and Matruh and Negila, and about 26 tree/HH in Barrani area. Almond was not
planted in Barrani East, and a few trees (6 per HH) were planted in other SRSCs. Grape is mainly
produced in Barrani West (the average was 35 tree/HH). It was not grown at all in Hekma, and a few
farmers grew it in other SRSCs.
15.   Vegetables. With exception of watermelon, which grown rainfed, vegetable production is not
common due to water scarcity. Melon was grown by 34% of the sample farmers. Average melon area
was 2.3 fed but the variability was extremely high (range 0-100 fed, CV 300%). Most of the melon is
produced in Barrani east and west where average melon area is more than 5.0 fed, compared to 0.8 fed in
Matruh, 0.4 fed in Hekma, and less than 0.1 fed in Negila. Onion was grown by about 4%. The average
area for the sample was 0.1 fed. Tomato and mint, each was grown by only 2% of the HHs.
- 128-



16.   Irrigation source. The extreme majority (72%) of farmers who irrigate orchards use run-off
water stored in cisterns, 22% buy water, 1% irrigate from Saniah; and artesian ground water well, and
5% use more than one of these sources. The highest proportion of water purchased was reported in
Hekma (37%), followed by Matruh (3 1%), Barrani W (9%), then Negila (7%), and no one in Barrani E
bought water for irrigation.
17.   Range. Annual range species are preferred by 89% of livestock herders, shrubs (mainly Acacia,
then Atriplex) by 5%, and both by 6%. Shrubs are relatively more preferred in Matruh compared to other
SRSCs. Most farmers (87%) believe that the rangeland has been degraded. However about 50% of
Barrani East sample have such a belief, compared to 100% in Hekma and Negila, 95% in Barrani West
and 91% in Matruh. The extreme majority (88%) of the sample believes that low rainfall and successive
droughts are the reasons for rangeland degradation. Some 7% admitted over-grazing, and less than 1%
considered land cultivation, as the main reason for degradation.
18.   Livestock production. The majority (over 70%) of HHs have livestock. The average number of
sheep is 39 sheep (ranging from 0 to 600, CV 144%). The average number of goats is 11 (ranging from 0
to 120, CV 127%). The average number of camels is 1 (ranging from 0 to 77, CV 500%). Flocks are
generally larger in the west (Barrani East and West and Negila) than in the east (Hekma and Matruh).
Shepherding is mainly the job of children (52% of the sample), about 28% shepherd their flocks by
themselves, 6% by relatives, and 14% by hired labor. Some 2% reported women's participation, with the
children and/or adults, in shepherding. All farmers and herders increasingly use concentrates. Small
numbers of poultry are kept by the HHs. The average number per HH was 25 chicken, 30 pigeon, 13
rabbit, and 5 ducks and geese. All farmers and shepherds reported increasing their use of feed
concentrates.
19.   Farming systems. Agricultural development undertaken in the last few decades has converted
the traditional pastoral system into sedentary agriculture, and a variety of farming systems has evolved.
Farning systems (FS), for the purpose of identifying farm types, are defined by the combination of the
main agricultural activities practiced in the farm; field crops, fruit tree, and livestock. Geohydrology,
availability of water harvesting structures, soil type, and economic conditions of the HH govemed the
evolutionary process of FS. The pastoral system has first evolved to semi-settled "Livestock/ Crop" FS
by growing barley in land depressions receiving natural run-offs from the vicinity. Water harvesting
allows fruit trees plantations, further transforming the FS to the "Livestock/Crop/Horticulture" FS.
20.    The FS analysis, using the beneficiary database, conducted by MRMP in 1997 and updated in
2001 indicated that, "horticulture/crop/livestock" FS is predominant, practiced by 48% of total
households. Some households have different combination of two activities, and a small proportion of the
households practiced only one agricultural activity, either crop, horticulture, or livestock production, as
shown below:
"Tree/Crop/Livestock" FS         48% of total households
"Tree/Crop" FS                    14% of total households
"Livestock/Crop" FS               13% of total households
"Livestock/Tree" FS              9% of total households
"Crop only" FS                    8% of total households
" Tree only" FS                  4% of total households
"Livestock only" FS              4% of total households
Total                      100% of total households
- 129-



21.    The figures above dispel the common notion that the NWC region, especially its western part, is
a Barley/livestock area. Fruit tree production is now equally, if not more important than barley and
livestock. It could be concluded, from the figures above, that 75% of total HHs are involved in fruit
production, 74% in livestock, and 83% in barley production. Barley, however, is not a cash crop, but is
mainly produced to feed livestock. Although income from fruits, on average, may exceed the income
from livestock, but the latter is more than a cash provider. It is an economic buffer against drought and a
social prestige as well.
22.   It should be emphasized in this juncture, that any FS situation is static only at a point of time. It
is a dynamic process that transforms a simple, less productive, FS into a more complex and productive
one, with changes in farm resources occurring over the time. Constructing water-harvesting structures,
for example, facilitates evolving the extensive production FS (of crop/livestock) into the more intensive
"horticulture/crop/livestock", provided that other resources allow for such evolution. Development
policies should carefully recognize the FS dynamics, so that measures taken would not disturb the
ecosystem balance. Conversely, recurrent droughts can lead to distress sales of livestock transforming a
livestock based FS to a single crop or horticulture system.
23.    Although not a cash crop, barley has established an important role in the FS of the Project Area.
Its area has been steadily increasing, most of the time at the expense of good ranges. This simple fact
should be considered in any resource management policy, especially as related to range improvement.
Any attempt to irnprove the range at the expense of barley area would fail, most likely.
24.    The distribution of households, or farns, by FS by SRSC is given in Table 2, which shows that
the "Tree/Crop/Livestock" is predominant in all SRSCs. It also shows that the fruit-based FS have been
relatively more developed in the eastern part of project area than in the west. Fruit trees are planted on
80% of total farms in Hekma and Matruh SRSCs, compared to Negila (68%), Barrani East (74%), and
Barrani West (67% of the total farns). Livestock-based Fs are, on the other side, more evident in the
west than in the east. Over 80% of farmers in Negila and Barrani East are livestock breeders, compared
to 65% in Hekma and 71% in Matruh.
- 130-



Table 1: Distribution of Farming Systems by SRSC in Project Area
FS         Hekma        Matruh       Negila      Barrani E   Barrani W       Total
T/C/L (HH)       1632        2599         1300         1805         1169         8505
(%)        49           52           43           54           41           48
T/C   (HH)       743          824          176         351          448          2542
(%)        22           16           6            10           16           14
L/C   (HH)       244          503         513          525          396          2181
(%)         7           10           17           16           14           12
L/T   (HH)       273          364          461          277          191          1566
(%)         8            7            15           8            7            9
C     (HH)       123          382          186          232          420          1343
(%)         4            8            6            7           15            8
T     (HH)       298          223          109          64           96           790
(%)         9            5            4            2            3            4
L     (HH)        35          120          310          107          163          735
(%)         1            2            10           3            6            4
Total (HH)       3348        5015         3055         3361         2883        17662*
(%)        100          100          100          100          100         100
(*) Does not add to the total HHs of 18714 because some beneficiaries do not have farm resources upon which FS
were defined.
Key:   T/C/L trees/crops/livestock
T/C   trees/crops
L/C   livestock/crops
L/T   livestock/trees
C      crops only
T      trees only
L      livestock only
25.    Agricultural production improvement. MRMP has implemented effective adaptive research
and technology transfer programs, with effective participation of local communities. Simple improved
technologies were tested, adapted to local conditions, and disseminated to farmers and shepherds.
Technologies for improving agricultural production focused on genetic improvement, cultural, crop
management, and cropping pattems, and livestock improvement technologies on improved feeding
regimes and animal health. A considerable area of degraded rangelands was rehabilitated by planting
several millions of fodder shrubs, and reseeding many thousands feddans. Adoption and impact studies
carried out have revealed satisfactory adoption rates for most of the technologies promoted, and a good
physical and economic impact as well.
C.     Social Organization
Tribal structure
26.    The Bedouin population is composed of the main tribes of Awlad Ali, and their followers
El-Murabtein or farmer client tribes. Of the 20 Awlad Ali tribes of the NWC, only 5 are found in the
Project Area. These are Ali El-Ahmer, Ali El-Abied (or Awlad Kharoof), El-Senena, El-Gomeiat, and
El-Qataan, who account for 68% of the population. These tribes are more cohesive and dominant,
holding the best of land and water resources, and constitute, in a sense, an 'old aristocracy'. They have'
El-Nezala rights'-the authority to protect other tribes, or individual tribesmen if feuds occurred.
27.    The sixth major tribe in the Project Area is the El-Murabtein who entered the region in the 17th
- 131 -



century and who presently account for 32% of the population. The sub-tribes collectively known as
El-Murabtein do not belong to the dominant tribes and have the least power and prestige. They have a
genetic connection with the Saadis, but without a common ancestor. They were fragmented and weak as
a group, and had access to pasture, land, and water resources under Saadi protectors, and! or beyond the
territory occupied by the dominant Saadis.
28.   Intermarriage within and among these tribes maintains the prestige structure, and suitable mates
are occasionally sought not only from within other tribes in the area, but at times from far away
geographical areas.
29.    Tribes are divided into sub-tribes, of which there are about 40 in the project area. The sub-tribe'
qabila' is the functional tribe of most importance in dealing with the government. It is a blood-related
group, and the reference most commonly used by individuals for defining their tribal identity. Each
sub-tribe is further divided into clans (aila, singular) of 5-7 generations depth, and further into extended
households (bayt, singular) of 3-4 generations depth.
30.    The largest single tribe is Ali El-Ahmer, and the smallest is El-Gomeiat.
Ali El-Ahmer               21% of the total population;
Ali El-Abeid               13% of the total population;
El-Senena                  13% of the total population;
El-Gomeiat                 8% of the total population;
El-Qataan                  14% of the total population;
El-Murabtein (Sonkor)      31 % of the total population
Total               100% of the total population
31.    The tribal distribution by SRSC is presented in Table 3. The Table shows that the proportion of
El-Murabtein to total SRSC population is highest at Hekma, Matruh, and Barrani East (around 40%), and
lowest at Negila (9%) and Barrani West (15%). The tribal distribution on the basis of the number of HH
is not presented, because there is no significant difference in the household! or family size between
SRSCs (all averaged at 7 persons/HH). Therefore, the tribal distribution of HH has the same percent
structure as the total population.
Table 2: Tribal Distribution of Population by SRSC
a) Population (persons)
SRSC            Ali Ahmer  Ali Abeid  Senena    Gomeiat   Qataan     Sonkor      Total
Hekma             3878      2594       4486      4029       605       10573     26165
Matruh            13992      5919      1765      2034        0        16399     40109
Negila            3633       7513      3957      4301       690        1994     22088
Banrani East      1175       508       5261        0        6873      10072     23889
Baffani West      5335       132       1146        0        10419     3043      20075
Total Population  28013     16666      16615     10364      18587     42081     132326
- 132-



b)% Distribution
SRSC            All Ahmer  Ali Abeid   Senena    Gomeiat    Qataan    Sonkor      Total
Hekma               15        10         17        15         3         40         100
Matruh             35         15         5          4         0         41         100
Negila              16        34         18        20         3          9         100
Barrani East        5         2          22         0         29        42         100
Barrani West       27         -          6          0         52        15         100
Total Population   21        12.5       12.5        8         14        32         100
Tribal Leadership
32.    The tribal leadership is hierarchical, yet simple. Leaders are designated at each tribal level, and
there is a customary law council 'Majlis Orfi' at each level of the clan. There is still pronounced group
solidarity with recognized communal responsibilities at each level.
33.    The tribe's Sheikh at the top is the head of the tribe council and is the final authority on legal,
social, and other matters. The Sheikh, who is usually the oldest son or descendent of a deceased Sheikh, is
responsible for the stability, tranquillity, and prosperity of his tribe. He is also responsible for making
judicial decisions, and adjudicates disputes that may arise between feuding sub-tribes. The Sheikh is held
in the highest esteem and accorded to the highest privileges.
34.    Below the Tribal Sheikh, there are a number of Sub-Tribe Sheikhs, whose authority is predicated
on the support of the Tribal Sheikh, and the consent and support of their constituency. In addition to their
judicial role, the sub-tribe Sheikhs compete among themselves to guard the prestige of the sub-tribe, and
enhance the standing of their constituency - a matter requires effective communication with
governmental and civil organizations, and key local and national leaders.
35.    The 'Omda' is the figure of administrative authority at the sub-tribe level and thus have a
different role from that of the Sub-Tribe Sheikh. The authority of the Omda is sanctioned by the Tribal
Sheikh, but the Omda has to pragmatically command the respect and receive the support of the members
of his sub-tribe as an adept problem solver and instrumental leader. His positions are more administrative
than political, and he is the link between constituency, governmental, and civil authorities. Each bayt is
headed by an Aaqla or Elder. The Aaqla is the wise and respected in the bayt and his advice and help are
sought in social and moral matters as well as in matters affecting the overall management of the affairs of
the bayt.
-133 -



D.     Socio-economic Features
Social status, and control
36.    Bedouin society is patriarchal, patrilineal and patrilocal. The tribal social status system (Zoghby,
et al, 1992) is based on socially inherited privileges, and consists of a virtually unchangeable order of
ranks. Although an emerging pattern based on newly acquired wealth is making some headway, class
position is still dependent on the tribe an individual belongs to, and how closely blood-related one is to
the head of the tribe. Within this framework, the social status and the division of labor are prescribed
and, in the final analysis, almost entirely predicated on kinship, gender, and age. Males have ascendance
on females, and the old dominates the young. Status which a Bedouin might have outside the tribal
system, such as being a professional or a governmental official, does not have much influence within the
social status system, and it only enhances one's prestige within the tribe.
37.    The bayt, in essence, is the economic condominium whose members work together cooperatively
for the common good. The bayt usually includes 3-5 household, each of which could be a nuclear or an
extended family. The social standing of the bayt depends on the number of married brothers and kin who
pool their resources together and form a viable socio-economic unit.
38.    Social control is almost entirely informal, and is maintained by elaborate sets of reciprocal
obligations and effective sanctions that have maintained the well-established traditional way of life. An
indication of the effectiveness and strength of traditional sanctions is that the poor never steal, even when
they are in bad need for food.
Traditions and socio-economic changes
39.    Although traditional, the Bedouin society does not lack socio-economic changes. The Bedouins
have rapidly adopted new technologies, once proved to increase their income. They have adjusted to
modernized life requirements as long as their pride, privacy, and decency are not threatened. Field
observations (Zoghby, 1992) have shown that Bedouins have ethical attitudes that abhor laziness and
place great value on hard work and acquisition of wealth. These attitudes serve at times as the driving
force behind emigration of the youth to more economically promising areas.
40.    A sense of restlessness was also observed among the young striving for independence and
modernization. However, young Bedouins have no objection to helping and cooperating with members of
their tribes, and a great sense of mutual obligations and common understanding is still being observed.
Although group solidarity seems strong, some of the young feel that, in these days, affiliation to the tribe
has rather a more symbolic than substantive meaning. The poor face a desperate situation resulting from
lack of capital and know how, and many young rural poor expressed a will to look for a job in another
sector of the economy rather than agriculture. If not found in the area, they have but to emigrate.
Customary Law
41.    The customary law of the local tribal population evolved in a context of nomadic and
semi-nomadic Bedouins, who combined livestock grazing with dryland barley farming. This law is called
Derbat Awlad Ali and was codified in the 17th century (as the tribes entered from Libya). The law
includes a legal code for moral and civil offenses, role of order for the tribal judicial process, and a
system of legal specialists. Several tribal groups are recognized locally as having the expertise of judicial
matters. For an example, Al-zirai' of Al-Arwa tribe deals with agricultural matters. Al-Zafarat of
- 134-



Al-'Ushaybat tribe deals with those of herding whilst the Badi Al-Sharasat deal with issues related to
camels herding. The legal principles are both written and verbal. There are a number of principles and
mutually accepted rules for use of land, vegetation, and animals. It is important to note that as nomads
the Bedouin did not have free and unrestricted access to pasture. Rather there were rules to ensure
distribution of access rights and conservation of water and pasture.
Land tenure
42.    Tribes of Awlad Ali and EI-Murabtein, or farmer client tribes entered the region in the 17th
century, coming from Libya. Until a few decades ago, Awlad Ali tribes held the land and water
resources. They protected the less powerful and less prestigious El-Murabtein, and permitted them access
to pasture, land and wells within their tribal areas and between and beyond their own territories.
Conflicts arose, and an arbitration committee called Majles Orfi was formed to prepare an agreement to
distribute land between the different tribes. El-Murabtein tribes were given full claims to land and water
in areas that were not already cultivated and claimed by Awlad Ali. As most of good lands were already
taken, El-Murabtein tribes have settled on the poorer and more marginal lands.
43.    According to the arbitration, every tribe and sub-tribe (qabila) was designated a territory "watan"
that may extend to many square kilometres. The tribal terrtories were demarked and documented by the
arbitration committee, and thereby descendants could inherit them without inciting conflicts. In Bedouin
traditions, land and water resources have been communally utilized. However, except for the
southernmost parts of communal rangelands, the tribal territories have been allocated to individual
tribesmen in such a way that every landholder knows quite well the boundaries of his share in the tribal
area. With continued use, the land becomes virtually owned in the sense that the claimant has exclusive
rights to use it.
44.    Officially, steppe and deserts are state lands and government is authorized to lease or sell state
land for purposes of the nation's interest. But, although the Bedouins' possession of land is not based on
statutory law, they are nevertheless in actual physical occupancy of land that belongs to the state. No
outsider can purchase, and utilize, the land from the state without consent of the Bedouin occupiers and
payment of a handsome compensation to them (Zoghby et al. 1992). The government has recognized the
de facto usufruct rights of established tribal territories, and the usufruct system of land tenure has
sustained.
45.    As land use becomes more commercialized, and individuals have embarked on making long-terrm
investments (water harvesting structures and orchards establishment) on land they hold, many issues/
disputes have arisen. Such issues were the use of land as collateral, the claims of individuals over the use
and disposal of improved land, and competing claims among brothers, kinfolks, and neighbors.
46.    The Desert Law 124 of 1958 and the Law 100 of 1969 allowed individual tribesmen to gain title
over land they cultivated according to some criteria. The program to assign land titles to the Bedouins
has however proceeded very slowly. It is estimated that over 80% of landholdings in the Project Area still
under traditional tenure, without legal title. Recently however, the official process of gaining legal title
over landholdings has been speeded up due to enhanced awareness of the increased economic value of
land, and upon institutional support from the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform (MALR) through
MRMP.
Communal water and grazing rights
47.    Each tribe has its own range and water sources, and territorial boundaries of tribes are respected.
- 135-



Water run-offs, generated up in the plateau by catchment areas and trapped by small dykes, can be used
for localized agricultural production, but run-offs should not be blocked from running to other
downstream localities. Water rights and disputes are subject to the tribal customary laws.
48.    Water for domestic and livestock use is harvested and stored in excavated cisterns, or concrete
reservoirs. In addition to old Roman cistems, many new cisterns, especially deep inland, were originally
established for communal use. In case of cisterns established within private landholding for domestic use,
a neighboring water-deficient household can use the nearest stored water regardless of property rights.
49.    According to Bedouin customs and traditions, members of a tribe/sub-tribe have exclusive rights
to graze their flocks on the area allocated to their tribe/sub-tribe. Members of other tribes are forbidden
from grazing their animals on other tribes' territories, unless prior permission was given. Rangelands in
the settled-population areas have increasingly been allocated to individual families. Roaming herds can
use such ranges, charged or free of charge, but only after permission was granted.
Women in Bedouin Society
50.    Division of labor: In the traditional pastoral society, both men and women participated in
livestock management. Bedouin women in the past were far less restricted in their economic and public
role than at present. While sedentarization has restricted women's mobility, intensification of agricultural
activities, tree plantation, and the provision of water and firewood all brought new responsibilities to
women, especially the poor. Nevertheless, gender segregation has increased with the urbanization and
development of tourism and with greater exposures to religious centers (WB, 1993).
51.   Income-generating activities. Traditionally, Bedouin women have always contributed
substantially to the maintenance and production of flocks. Today, they are involved in a number of
activities, including harvesting and processing. Among traditional activities, which now have a potential
market in the cities, are rug and blanket weaving. Bedouin weaving has a good demand nowadays,
especially as a tourist item, while in the past it was only for local consumption. MRMP, through the WID
program, has enhanced women's involvement in resource management and productive activities. WID
has implemented extensive programs for literacy education of Bedouin girls, training for skill building
for weaving and food processing, and awareness workshops for improved health and nutritional
practices. It also has facilitated, through technical and financial support, establishing small-income
generating projects to enhance the economic independence of women, and has provided facilities to
alleviate work burden, such as water pumps, gas ovens, and donkey-carts.
Income Source, and savings
52.    Agricultural production is the main source of income contributing around 75% of family income,
followed by income from trading (16%), then off-farm employment (8%), whilst 1% of family income
comes from handicraft. The variability within the sample is however very high, CV is 80% for the farm
sources, and over 100% for all other sources.
53.    Differences between SRSCs were significant, with the highest and lowest proportion of income
from fruit production reported for Hekma and Negila (65% and 27% of total income, respectively). The
highest contribution of livestock production to income was for Barrani East (45%) and the lowest for
Hekma (23%). Income from trade and from off-farm employment assumed more relative importance in
Negila. Differences between FSs were also significant as shown in Table 4.
-136 -



Table 3: Source of family income and its variability - (% of income)
SRSC              Fruit     Livestock     Trade     Off-farm    Handicraft    Total
Hekna              65          23           3           6           3          100
Matruh             33          35          21          10           1          100
Negila             27          27          32          13           1          100
Barrani East       40          45          11           4           -          100
Barrani West       37          41          17           4           1          100
Total sample       40          35          16           8           1          100
Family savings
54.    The great majority (95%) of HHs has no income surplus to save over expenditures. Differences
between SRSCs were significant, with a relatively higher proportion of farmers who have income surplus
reported in Barrani East and Hekmna (8% of HHs), Matruh (6%), Barrani West (3%), and none in Negila
has any savings. Savings, reported by 5% of total HHs, were mainly used for improving the farm (47% of
the reports), improving housing conditions (34%), increasing livestock flocks (21%), and for social
obligations (I 1%).
Other socio-economic aspects
55.    MRMP conducted, in 1997, a farm survey on a 750-HHs sample, representing agro-climatic and
socio-economic variability of the project area. The main objective was to assess the credit and marketing
situation, and major influencing socio-economic factors. Some indicators, which highlight the
socio-economic conditions of the project beneficiaries that were assessed by the. survey, are presented
below. Generally there were significant differences between SRSCs in their socio-economic conditions.
But, the differences were not systematic, and an SRSC that had a relatively distinguished position for one
indicator, might not have it for other indicators. However, farmers operating within the
"horticulture/crop/livestock" FS generally have a better position compared to other systems, for all
indicators.
56.    Living standard. About 14% of the sample surveyed considered their living standard as good,
56% as normal, and 30% as very poor. An excellent or luxurious standard was observed for only 2
farmers, in Matruh SRSC. However, it should be indicated that the normal living conditions in the area
might be considered poor compared to other regions or to universally accepted standards. Also, pride
prevents Bedouins from announcing poverty and basic unmet needs. Good living conditions were
reported more in Hekma (23% of HHs) and Negila (18%), and least reported in Barrani East and West
(9%), and Matruh (11%).
57.    Housing conditions. According to observations and assessment of interviewers of the farm
survey, housing conditions were considered as normal for the great majority (82%) of the HHs, 17% as
good, and only 1% considered as excellent. Relatively better housing conditions were most observed in
Negila (32% of HHs), and least in Barrani East (9%).
58.    Electricity. The great majority (88%) of HHs does not have electricity sources. Electricity was
however more available in Matruh (19% of HHs) than Helama (15%) and Barrani West (10%), and it was
least available in Barrani East (7%) and Negila (6%).
59.    Transportation facility. Animal-drawn carts are used by 71% of the HHs, pick-ups by 24%, and
- 137 -



small cars by 4%. Only 1% of HHs own cars. Pick-ups are more used in Matruh (40% of uses) and by
31% in Hekma, and least in Barrani West (10%) and Negila (12%) and Barrani East (16%).
60.    Refrigerator. Only 5% of HHs have refrigerators, which are more prevalent in Matruh and
Barrani West (9% of HHs) than other SRSCs (1-2%).
61.    Radio. About 50% of HHs have radios, which are found more in Hekma (78%), Negila (67%),
Matruh (50%), Barrani West (44%), and Barrani East (26%).
62.    TV. only 9% of HHs have TVs. The figure for Hekma was 14%, Matruh 12%, Barrani West 7%,
Barrani East 5%, and for Negila, 3%).
63.    Sewing machine. 17% of HHs have sewing machines, but the figure was 36% for Hekma,
Matruh and Barrani West (16%, each), Negila (9%), and Barrani East (5%).
64.    Energy sources. About (79%) of HHs use firewood for energy in addition to other sources.
Firewood is used more in Barrani East (91%), Hekma and Barrani West (80%, each), Negila (77%), and
Matruh (64%). Kerosene is used by 43% of HHs, with higher usage at Hekma and Barrani East (63%,
each) compared to other SRSCs (about 38%). Gas is used by 29% of HHs, with higher usage in Matruh
(45%) compared to Negila and Barrani West (29%), Hekmna (24%), and Barrani East (15%).
I.     Poverty Analysis
65.    The NWC region has maintained a well-known civilization during all historical times. The
ancient Egyptians, the Greeks, and the Romans left proofs of prosperous settled agriculture. In the past,
the region produced enough grain, fruit, sheep, and goats for export to adjacent countries (Naggar, et al,
1988). However, nomadic pastoral tribes have occupied the regions for many centuries, accompanying
the Islamic occupation of North Africa. Except for deep inland oasis and scattered spots at the coast,
sedentary agriculture disappeared from most of the region.
66.    Govemment's awareness of the socio-economic and political importance of the border regions
has effectively been increased. Starting from the 1960s, many rural development projects have been
implemented aimed at natural resource development for enhancing agricultural production, and
consequently the settlement of the Bedouins. At present, the livelihood of over 70% of the population in
the NWC depends on agriculture (crop and livestock production). The population of the region is still,
however, among the poorest and most deprived in Egypt.
67.    Zoghby, et al, 1992, have assessed the incidence of poverty in the project by comparing per
capita on-farm income with the national GNP per capita. They reported that in a relatively good year, the
per capita farm income of the 50% HHs on small farms is likely to be between one-quarter and one-third
of the Egyptian GNP per capita in 1989. The 40% of farms of medium size may have a per capita farm
income equal to or 1.5 times the national per capita GNP. The 10% of farms, which are large, probably
have a per capita farm income 3.5 to 5 times the national per capita GNP. It should however be indicated
that half of the farms in the middle group will have income below the group average, and in poor dry
years, the relative incomes of the groups will be significantly worse.
68.    The concept of poverty line, with its lower and upper limits, was adopted to assess the incidence
of poverty in the project area. The lower limit is defined as the minimum income level with which a
household can barely survive at the most rudimentary level. The upper level is defined as the income
- 138-



level that is necessary to attract and keep smallholders in the area (Zoghby, et al, 1992). The total
population was analyzed by income, according to the level and productivity of farm resources which the
households (HHs) have, then compared with the poverty limits to assess the proportion of population
who are ultra poor (the small farmers), poor (medium farmners), and non-poor (large farmers).
Establishment of Poverty Line
69.    A lower limit of poverty line, of LE 7,890, was estimated for an average household of 7
members. This limit represents the income level needed by the average HH to ensure the minimum diet
and essential non-food items. The annual cost of minimum per capita diet was estimated at LE 655, using
the rninimum requirement of food item-groups needed for subsistence energy as recommended by FAO,
and the market prices at the city of Marsa Matruh (Table 5). Adding the cost of non-food items of LE 472
(42% of total food and non-food cost) makes a minimum per capita total cost of LE 1,172. It should be
noted, the consumer prices elsewhere in the project area are higher than those of Marsa Matruh.
Table 4: Annual Cost Per Capita of Minimum Food Requirements at Marsa Matruh, 2001
Food Item                                 Requirements       Price (LE/kg)   Annual Cost (LE)
(kg/yr.)
Cereals                                       205.2             1.20              246.25
Meat                                          4.8               20.00             96.00
Lentils                                       13.8              2.75              37.95
Beans                                         15.6              2.75              42.90
Vegetables                                    14.9               1.25              18.65
Onions                                        15.5              0.80               12.40
Milk and Cheese                               18.1              5.75*             104.10
Molasses                                       3.2              2.50               8.00
Sugar                                         8.3               1.40               11.60
Oils                                           4.4              4.00               17.60
Fruits                                        29.7              2.00               59.40
Total annual cost per capita for food items  655.00**
() Weighed average, assufmng the consumption ratio of milk to cheese would be at 1:2
(**) Rounded to the nearest integer
70.    An upper limit of the poverty line, of LE 11 830, was then estimated at 1.5 times the lower
limit (Table 6). This figure represents the income level that attracts smallholders not to migrate outside
the Project Area.
Table 5: Limits of Poverty Line at Matruh Governorate, 2001-2002 - (7-Member Family)
Description                                                         (LE)
Sub-total annual cost of minimum food requirements per capita       655
Sub-total annual cost of non-food requirements per capita           472
Total minimum annual cost per capita                                1127
Lower limit of poverty line for a 7-person fanuly                  7,890
Upper limit of poverty line for a 7-person family                  11,830
-139-



Income Levels, and Distribution
71.    The M&E unit of MRMP has estimated the income of HHs, using farm resources data (barley
area, fruit trees, and livestock) available in the beneficiary database for each HH and assuming a weighed
10-year average of resource productivity. Total HHs are then classified by three income levels:
I) Ultra poor, representing small farmers  < LE 10,000 gross income
2) Poor, representing medium farmers    LE 10,000 - 20,000 gross income
3) Non-poor, representing large farmers  > LE 20,000 gross income
72.    For comparison with the poverty line, gross income needs to be adjusted to net farm income and
an allowance made for off-farm income. The crop budgets indicate that net farm income represents
around 45-50% of gross farm income on average whilst Table 4 indicates that farm income represents
around 75% of the total household income. With these adjustments, the above income thresholds
translate into < LE 6 000; LE 6 000 to 12 000 and above LE 12 000. This indicates that households in the
first category are below the lower poverty line whilst households in the second category are below the
upper poverty line.
73.    Analysis of the population by income groups revealed that 56% of the HHs is under the lower
limit of the poverty line, 24% are within the upper limit of poverty line, and only 20% can be considered
non-poor, as shown below.
Income Group HHs                 % of total
Ultra poor          10410            56
Poor                 4523            24
Non-poor             3881            20
Total               18714           100
74.    The majority of the HHs in project area is poorly resourced. The average farm resources per HH,
in 2001, are about 125 fruit trees, 12 fed of barley, and 33 small ruminants. Differences between
economic groups are very significant (Table 7).
- 140-



Table 6: Average* Farm Resources By Economic Groups
Economic group      Tree (no.)     Barley (fed)    Livestock (no.)
<-10000                60               5               10
>10000<=20000          150              11              35
>20000                290              32               100
Overall HHs            125              12              33
* Averages are calculated on the total HHs, not real possessors
75.    The figures on farm resources should however be viewed from productivity perspectives.
Productivity per fed of barley, or per fruit tree of the irrigated agriculture in the Nile Valley and Delta is
10 times the productivity in the Project Area. It also should be indicated that not all HHs have all
resources:
(a)    Fruit trees are grown by 62% of small farmers, 83% each of medium and large farmers;
(b)    Barley is grown by 71% of small farmers, 86% and 88% of medium and large farmers,
respectively; and
(c)    Small ruminants are possessed by 51% of small farrners, 89% and 94% of medium and large
farmers, respectively.
76.    The distribution analysis of HHs by income categories and by SRSCs (Table 8) shows no
significant difference in poverty incidence between the SRSCs, though the proportion of the ultra poor
category is a little smaller in Barrani East and Hekma.
Table 7: Distribution of Population by Income Group (LE) by SRSC
SRSC                Ultra Poor           Poor             Non-poor             Total
< 10,000        10,000-20,000         > 20,000
HHs                 /e               HHs           %HHs%HHs%
Hekma                  1767               51                 925          27738223430100
Matruh                3206                59                 1202         22992195400100
Negila                 1921               59                 761          23603183285100
Barrani East           1705               49                 941           27846243492100
Barrani West           1811               58                 694          22602203107100
Total population      10410               56                4523         2438812018714100
III.   Vulnerability Issues
77.    The biophysical and socio-economic environments of the project area are subject to a variety of
risks of different origins. The pressure of humans and livestock on the poor natural resource base has
disturbed the balance of originally fragile ecosystems; and, the development indiscriminately undertaken
in the last few decades has substantially aggravated the deterioration of the ecological balance. The area
has institutionally been long neglected; lacking, in particular, strategies for sustainable resource
management, and institutions for education, research, and human resource development.
A.     Sources of vulnerability
78.    There is a multitude of risk factors that threaten resource sustainability, making outputs and
outcomes of rural development in project area highly vulnerable. These are:
- 141 -



(a)    Biophysical risks;
(b)    Socio-economic and financial risks; and
(c)    Institutional risks
Biophysical vulnerability
79.    The arid climate with its low and highly fluctuated rainfall is a primary source of risk and
vulnerability. Analysis of long-run rainfall data showed that out of 10 years, 4 were normal or around the
average, 2 were wet, and 4 were dry or below the average. Crop yields are dramatically affected by
rainfall variability. In a good-rainfall year, barley yield may exceed 700 kg/fed, whereas the crop may not
reach maturity in a dry year, and it is grazed green by livestock. Orchard productivity also fluctuates by
rainfall rate at a range of 40-50%. On the other side, strong torrents engendered by heavy rains causes
serious damages, destroying dykes, and washing away good soils and small tree plantations. Windstorms
are also a serious factor of physical risk on many locations, especially in Barrani area, eroding the
originally poor soils and causing crop damage.
80.    Farming involves risks and uncertainty, even in years of relatively high rainfalls the annual rains
were not appropriately distributed. In years of good early rains, farmers sow barley on every piece of the
cropland, saving the best and most productive parts for watermelon-a highly profitable summer cash
crop. In some years, however, most of annual rate came early in the growing season, then the rainfall
ceased. No mid- or late-season rains in the spring means multiple losses for farmers; poor barley produce,
which may not recover its cost, no seed for the next year requiring it to be bought at additional cost, and
no cultivation of watermelon.
81.    Local species and varieties of crops and local breeds of livestock, though well adapted to the
environment, have low genetic potential for productivity improvement. Crop diversity is constrained by
physical and economic constraints, and barley mono cropping is quite common. Agricultural pests are
another major source of biophysical vulnerability that has recently drastically increased, in some
locations, with increased development and agricultural intensity. Rodents may cause serious damages to
earthen dykes and crops. Insects and diseases combined with improper management practices have turned
hundreds of orchards unproductive, and substantial measures are required for rejuvenation.
Socio-economic vulnerability
82.    Fragility and low productivity potential characterize the natural resource base of the project area.
Therefore, the majority of HHs is poor; Over 56% of HHs is below the lower limit of poverty, and 24%
within the upper limit of poverty. Farm income for the majority ultra poor is not sufficient to survive, and
they have to seek off-farm employment. It is estimated (Zoghby, et al, 1992) that the ultra poor, for their
survival have to derive one-fifth of their income, on average, from off-farm sources, most likely working
for richer HHs. It is not only that farm income is commonly low, but it also fluctuates greatly. It is
estimated that farm income might be reduced by one-third in 2 years out of 5, and it could be negligible
in I out of 5 years.
83.   Illiteracy rate is high, and professional skills are lacking. Economic opportunities and
employment in other sectors of the local economy other than agriculture are very limited. In successive
years of drought, which are not very common, a good proportion of the population suffers dramatic
hardships and is barely able to survive. The situation has become worse after the elimination of state
subsidies on food items and farming inputs, and the recent sudden cancellation of the World Food
Program in the Project Area.
- 142-



84.    Bedouin traditions and tribal solidarity have always been a strong factor for socio-economic
sustainability and community survival. Over the times, tribal traditions and solidarity has strongly stood
against all kinds of threats and hardships. Although they in a sense still do, but with the thrust towards
modernization and individualism recently have taken place, they are beginning to loosen. The concept
and practice of the tribe/ or sub-tribe as a 'consolidated socio-economic unit' that governed the Bedouin
pastoral ecosystem for ages, has become susceptible to drastic effects imposed by development, and the
more the development advances the more vulnerable the system becomes.
85.    A few decades ago, resource development has been initiated with a relatively plenty of water
run-off and relatively few tribal members interested in development and sedentary farming. A lot of
water run-offs used to be lost to the sea. Water harvesting structures constructed to make use of part of
the run-off has created no problem, with no social disputes over water rights. This situation still prevails
in many watersheds but, in many others, the newly established structures upstream have drastically
adversely affected old orchards downstream, inciting serious reasons for social dispute.
86.    So far and in the short-run,-uch social problems related to tribal solidarity might not be
significantly serious. But in the long run, with the advancement of development and ever increasing
demand on water and other resources, it might be. Unless socio-economic research and actions are
incorporated with the biophysical ones, social conflict might be serious, not only between different tribes
sharing the samre resources, but even within the same tribe, and probably between individuals of the same
extended family "bayt'.
Institutional vulnerability
87.    Public institutions and civil administration entities that provide different types of services
(education, health, credit, agricultural and social services) for the local population have limited presence
in the Project Area. They are mostly concentrated in urban centers, and are difficult to access by the
majority of the rural poor, due to remoteness, inefficient and costly transportation, and in many cases the
lack of awareness of the beneficiaries.
88.    Prior to the establishment of MARC and TCRA by MRMP, research, and training institutions for
rainfed resource management and agriculture were absent in the NWC. Except those provided by
MRMP, agricultural extension services were very modest. Although 95% of rural HHs are members in
cooperatives, barely half of them have benefited from a few cooperative services. Credit from banks,
although available procedures are complicated and the majority of HHs has refrained from using it,
though it is badly needed. The poor face a desperate situation of lack of capital, know how, and training.
Without the infusion of capital for rural development, emigration to urban areas such as the city of Marsa
Matruh is likely to escalate.
- 143-



B.     Farmers' coping strategies
Cropping strategies
89.    The farming systems, which have developed, based on a combination of horticulture, field crops,
and livestock are the most impressive strategy to cope with the biophysical and economic risks and
uncertainties, which are common in the area. Barley is mainly grown to feed animals, utilizing grain,
straw, and stubbles. In very dry years when there will be no grain produced, the barley is green grazed by
livestock. Horticulture is a good cash enterprise, and also contributes to feeding livestock on by-products
and residuals. Livestock is not only a cash source for the family, but also a saving asset used at times of
hardships. This multi-enterprise FS provides a good economic buffer for the HHs. If one enterprise fails
in a year, other enterprises are there to maintain survival.
90.    To cope with rainfall uncertainty, most farmers do not sow barley until after the first rains. When
early rains are delayed or precipitation is low, the crop area may be reduced by 40-50% of the area sown
in wet years, and lower seed rates are used to minimize the cost. In years of timely and plentiful early
rains, farmers sow every piece of land, extending in some cases and some years even to marginal lands.
91.    Horticulture is a highly remunerative, cash farming enterprise. A few decades ago, a very small
proportion of farmers was involved in fruit and vegetable production. However presently, over 75% of
HHs are producing fruits, and over 35% produce watermelon, which is the principal vegetable crop in the
area. Farmers do whatever they can to make good use of the scarce resources (water, and good soils) they
have, for good horticulture production. They have selected the most drought-adapted species to grow, fig
and olive. In Barrani area where conditions permit, a good proportion of farmers grows grape. They also
allocate best soils, cultivate the land after every effective rainstorm to avoid subsequent water losses by
capillarity, use minimum inputs not only because of poverty, but also to cope with uncertainty and risks.
The best barley soil saved for watermelon will not be cultivated, if late/or spring rains are lacking. It
would be fallowed to provide a good pasture.
Economic coping strategies
92.   In addition to the cropping strategies above, which all have economic implications, farmers
manage their livestock as a coping strategy against economic risks. In addition to being a cash income
source, farmers manipulate livestock herds as an economic buffer against drought and other hardships.
Farmers increase their stocks to the maximum afforded following wet years with good barley production
and pastures, building up good savings in the form of asset that could be used anytime the need for cash
arises. But in drought years, livestock numbers are reduced to the minimum that can be managed under
hardship conditions.
93.    The tribal communities have modest capacities for savings and indigenous systems of pooling
resources. This capacity is not organized and the potential is not fully utilized. Bedouin HHs, even the
poor try to keep some savings to face income shortages in low rainfall years. They do not normally keep
their savings in banks. Some reserves are in kind, such as jewelry, carpets, rugs, and possibly other
handicrafts. There are no village level institutions that encourage savings. Basically confined to their
limited resources, the rural HHs have tended to keep a near-stationary economy going and to contribute
more to its stabilization than to rapid development. A potential exists for formal credit institutions to
mobilize savings.
94.    Rural women have effectively contributed to the economic coping strategies of the Bedouin
- 144-



community. Women are engaged in small-scale economic activities, such as mint production and other
home gardening, raising small livestock (chicken, rabbits, and pigeons), weaving, and handicraft making.
Women for household use, savings, and their own special needs usually keep the income generated by
these activities. MRMP through its WID program has enhanced women's contribution to the economic
security of the HH. The project has supported the establishment of over 610 small income-generating
projects, 1 480 small home-gardening enterprise, and conducted training sessions on food processing and
conserves, sewing and carpet weaving attended by 3 080 rural women.
C.     Institutional Coping Strategy
95.    The increasing number, capacity, and service coverage of many institutions and civil
administration entities reflects the recently enhanced awareness and interest of governments in the NWC
region. This improvement covered areas of education, vocational training, health, construction and
housing, agriculture, veterinary services, tourism, mining, and other items of a long list of development
services.
96.    Vulnerability considerations have been recognized in the design of MRMP; and the project could
be considered the very first start of a long-term endeavor that targeted the sustainability of natural and
human resources management in the NWC. The crucial importance of research and human resource
development to cope with vulnerability and ensure development sustainability was well considered,
establishing research and training institutions. More important could be the unique experience and
expertise built up by the project in various aspects of research and technology transfer for improving
rainfed resource management and agricultural production. This expertise is a national asset that should be
maintained, upgraded, and institutionalized.
97.   It is believed that the innovative operational model implemented could be the main reason for the
evident progress achieved by MRMP in targeting its objectives. The model integrated research,
extension, and resource management under one umbrella, with effective community participation. The
proposed Phase-Il Project should consider augmentation and institutionalization of the model to ensure
sustainability of the development outcomes.
D.     Food Security
98.    Bedouin communities have long survived in the desert environment of scanty resources and risk
and uncertainty multitudes. They have developed over time and space a way of living that copes well
with their environment. This way of living has been based on biophysical and economic practices, and a
well-established system of traditions, customs, and social structure. It is built on the Bedouin's attitude of
being satisfied with the least of every thing; food, clothing, housing, and entertainment. Many believe
this psychological attitude, essentially acquired through the centuries-old processes of mutual
man-environment interactions has been developed into a genetic-need characteristic. The nutritional
needs (quantity and quality of food and water) upon which a Bedouin can survive are incredible. Even
under prosperous conditions, the Bedouin intake is not excessive. In the Project Area, except for town
dwellers, one can rarely observe overweight Bedouins.
- 145-



Food Security situation
99.    Despite the above facts, the majority of HHs in project area, especially the ultra poor do not
always live within a food secure environrnent. Only part of the food requirements can be provided from
the farm, and a substantial part must be bought from market. Prices are ever escalating due to inflation.
Prices at local markets in Matruh are even higher than in Cairo and Alexandria, due to remoteness and
more marketing middlemen. On-farm income is low and highly susceptible to climatic vagaries. Off-farm
income is seasonal, and the demand is not always sufficient to meet the huge need of the poor.
100.  Bedouin HHs do their best to have some savings, but their capabilities are extremely limited.
Almost all strategies listed above, practiced by the HH to cope with risk and uncertainty, aim at
increasing and stabilizing farm income, most of which is used for food with modest savings, if ever
attained, handled skilfully for food security purposes. However, about 95% of the sample interviewed in
the 1997 Credit and Marketing Survey reported no income surplus over expenditures to save. In years of
exceptional harvest, some savings can be made. However, most of the savings (47% of HHs) are used for
improving the farm, and 21% for enlarging the flocks, which contribute to food security, either through
direct consumption or sales to provide cash for food and non-food requirements.
101.  Off-farn employment is a source of income that could significantly contribute to the food
security of the rural poor. However, the demand for agricultural labor is seasonal and much lower than
the huge supply of the needy. Employment opportunities in other economic sectors are scarce. During the
past decade the booming demand for casual labor, especially for the construction of tourist villages, has
contributed to food security. This particular demand has now greatly reduced. Yet, casual labor in the
area still has seasonal employment opportunities in the tourist industry, providing different types of
services to summer tourists. According to the 1997 credit and marketing farm survey, roughly 17% of
HHs had members working off-farm, partial or full time. Family members working off-farm contribute
about LE 220 monthly to the family, on average, most of which is spent on food and non-food
requirements of the HH.
102.  Handcrafts making is a modest source of cash income that contributes to food security for about
21% of the sample, according to the Credit and Marketing Farm Survey. Substantially more involvement
of handicrafts making was reported by Hekma (51% of total farmers) compared to 18% in Matruh and
Barrani West, 14% in Negila, and only 3% in Barrani East. The needy HHs mostly practice this modest
industry, with most of the income spent on food items. However, this business has encountered some
marketing problems, affecting badly the HH income of the poor. Handcrafts making can be significantly
be enhanced since it is a low-input occupation. Cash needed for inputs provision of handicrafts is
averaged at LE 450, but the variability within HHs was very high.
Ways of meeting food needs
103.  Part of food needs of the HH is provided from the farm, especially meat and egg, fruits and some
vegetables produced in the farm. In addition to the family flock of sheep and goats, Bedouin women keep
small numbers of poultry for domestic use. According to the beneficiary database of MRMP, the average
number of sheep and goats for the ultra poor group, the most unsecured nutritionally, was about 10
animals per HH. However, roughly 49% of this group did not report ownership of small ruminants. The
average number of poultry for all HHs, according to farm survey data was about 25 for chicken, 30
pigeons, 13 rabbits, and 5 of ducks and geese. In addition to culled sheep and goats, most of poultry
production is used for food, and partly for selling to provide non-food items.
104.  Part of farm products would be processed and conserved for later consumption; traditionally
- 146 -



milk-skimmed gee, and recently olive oil and pickle, and fig jam. Traditionally, Bedouin women were not
experienced in olive pickling and fig-jam making. WID program of MRMP has provided extensive
training of relevance.
105.  Traditionally bread was made of barley. Following settlement, modernization, and the significant
governmental subsidy of food items, it became a wheat-made bread. Till a few years ago, whilst wheat
was subsidized, over 70% of HHs used to grow the crop, contributing effectively to food security. But
after the elimination of the subsidy, only a small proportion of HHs may grow wheat for home
consumption. Most of family needs are provided from market-bought wheat, at what is considered an
exorbitant price. The poor have thus lost an important source of food security. However, during hardship
times, farm-produced barley could be substituted for wheat, partially or totally.
106.  The food rations provided over a long period by WFP were also contributing significantly to the
food security of the HH. However, this project was recently closed, worsening the food security situation.
107.  Part of the food requirements of the Bedouin poor is provided through tribal solidarity. The
leadership at different levels of the tribal hierarchy has traditionally shouldered the responsibilities
towards the poor tribe members. Food is provided whenever needed for tribe survival, and occasionally
provided through social event obligations. In such social occasions as wedding, childbirth, pilgrimage,
and the like, which are very frequent in Bedouin life, all kin including the poor are invited and food is
served generously. Extra food remaining after the celebration would also be distributed to the poor kin.
IV.    Targeting
E.     Targeted Population
108.  According to MRMP records and the adoption and impact farm surveys, over 58% of the total
households have benefited from the project. Yet, there is still a long waiting list of requests for
assistance. Roughly 48% of total HHs do not have cistems, even for domestic use, and a good proportion
of HHs need financial support to enlarge their water harvesting and storage capacity to improve
horticulture production, increase income, and reduce risks. The proposed project would certainly not be
able to cover all the present, and emerging, needs of the population. Hence, it is socio-economically of
utmost importance to target project benefits to the poorest and most needy households. Priority
considerations presented in this section provide useful guidelines, but other considerations that might be
dictated by implementation realities should not be overlooked.
Baseline Data on the beneficiary pool, or total HHs
109.  The beneficiary pool/or the total HHs to be considered for Phase II is expected to be about 21
980 HHs (rounded to 22 000), estimated as:
HHs already registered and included in database       18 714
HHs already registered, but not included in database   1 263
Sub-total, registered                                 19 977
New HHs expected to join (10% of registered)          2 000
Total HHs expected in phase II                   21 977 (22 000)
- 147-



Targeting Background and Rationale
110.  A distinction should be considered between two major types of targeting the beneficiary HHs for
Phase-II:
(a)    The HHs targeted for major physical benefits such as the water harvesting constructions. This
category is already planned to be at about 8000 HHs; and
(b)    The HHs generally targeted for improved production. This category would include the
beneficiary pool of 22 000 HHs total (including the newcomers who are expected to join in addition to
those already registered). Uptake figures in terms of HHs numbers predicted for Phase-lI would be based
on this figure.
111.  The whole beneficiary pool (the 22,000 HHs) should be considered as potentially targeted by
phase II for improving their living conditions, regardless of who benefited or not benefited, or who
adopted or not adopted, in phase I. This is because there is always an improvement potential, even for
those who have adopted some of the technologies promoted in phase I. The proportion of who benefited
and/ or who adopted in phase I could only be used as guidelines for determining to whom the major
benefits should go in Phase II, and to also predict the most likely 'actual' adoption rates for phase II.
112.  However, within this framework, certain cardinal principles would be adhered to in the selection
of beneficiaries;
(a)    Priority would be given for all investments/activities to the poor and disadvantaged households
who are the resource poor households in the community;
(b)   The communities would be responsible for determining the criteria for defining poverty within
there own enviromnent and for undertaking wealth ranking of the immediate community in order to
identify the eligible households; and
(c)    Priority for cistems would be given to those households who do not presently own a cistem for
their domestic water requirements
F.    Targeting Water Harvesting Activities
Targeting cistern constructions
113.  Based on past experience, cisterns will be accorded high priority by communities within the
participatory planning process and in the Comrnunity Action Plans drawn up by the communities. The
planning process requires guidelines to be provided to the communities for the selection of beneficiaries
for the different activities. For cisterns, the two main guiding principles would be poverty status of the
households and the main use of the new cisterns by the HH. Therefore, first priority should be given to
cover human needs, then animal, and last for farming needs. This is found to largely overlap with the
poverty criterion as shown in the data below which would be used by the Project management in the
overall allocation of resources to Local Communities.
114.  According to the beneficiary database (see Table 10), there are 8,671 HHs, comprising 46% of
total HHs, who till now do not have cisterns even for domestic use. Matruh, the largest of SRSCs,
accounts for 29% of total HHs who do not have cisterns. Other SRSCs have almost equally contributed
to the total (about 16-19%). However the proportion of HHs who does not have cisterns to the total HHs
of the SRSC is highest at Negila (50%), compared to other SRSCs ranging from 43% to 47%.
- 148 -



115.   Almost 60% of the ultra poor (small-farmer group) do not have cisterns, numbering 5 933
households and these would be the priority households followed by the 30% of the poor households
(medium farrner group) without cisterns numbering a further 1 616 households. The M&E database
would be able to provide data on the distribution of these households by SRSC and by LC to guide
financial resource allocation.
Table 8: Distribution of Households Without Cisterns by SRSC, and by Economic Group
a) Distribution by SRSC
SRSC                           HHs without cisterns        Total HHs    % Without cisterns
of total HHs
HHs 
Hekma                                 1488                    17             343043
Matruh                               2555                     29             540047
Negila                                1648                     19            328550
Barrani East                         1609                     19             349246
Barrani West                          1371                    16             310744
Total project area                   8671                     100            1871446
b) Distribution by economic groups
Small farmers                5933             68             10410             57
Medium farmers               1616             19             5423              30
Large farmers                1122             13             3781              30
Total project area           8671             100            18714             46
Targeting dyke constructions
116.   Dykes are exclusively constructed for farning purposes, mainly for horticulture and partly for
barley and other crops. Therefore, dyke use is not a governing criterion for its allocation and eligibility.
The first general priority criterion for dyke allocation eligibility, as for other project activities, should be
poverty level of the HH and absence of dykes on the farm. Within this general criterion, considerations
should be given for how bad is the need for the structure, and suitability of the landholdings for dyke
construction. Also within these considerations, priority of dykes might be given first for horticulture
production, then for crop, and last for pastures. The number and siting of dykes, however, has to be
determined by reference to the water availability in the wadi and the amount which can be trapped
without causing adverse impacts on existing downstream users. This information would be provided to
the communities by the project technical staff and then the communities can make their selection of
beneficiaries in accordance with the above guidelines within this framework.
117.  Data from the beneficiary database provides an indication of the overall-planning framework and
clearly indicates the scope for targeting the poor households. According to the beneficiary database (see
Table 11), there are 11,472 HHs (61% of total HHs) who till now do not have dykes and 62% of these
households (7,131 HHs) are ultra poor (small farmer-group) and 21% are poor (medium-farmer group) -
2,399 HHs. In terms of geographic distribution the highest proportion of HHs without dykes are found in
Negila (70%) and Barrani West (68%).
- 149-



Table 9: Distribution of Households without Dykes by SRSC and by Economic Group
a) Distribution by SRSC
SRSC                             HHs without dykes           Total HHs of   % without dykes
HHs___________________   SRSC         of total SSRSC
Hekma                                  1770                      15             343052
Matruh                                 3226                      28             540060
Negila                                 2308                      20             328570
Barrani East                           2054                      18             349259
Barrani West                           2114                      19             310768
Total project area                     11472                     100            1871461
b) Distribution by econo ic groups
Small farmers                 7131              62              1041              69
Medium farmers                2399              21              5423              44
Large farmers                  1942              17              3781              51
Total project area            11472             100             18714             61
118.   However, a good proportion of the dykes would be constructed on commnunal watershed land in
the upper catchment area for communal benefits and technical considerations of resource conservation
and use, cost, and the number of benefited landholdings would deternine the priority criteria for such
structures.
- 150-



Additional Annex 17: Gender Issues and Development
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Table of Contents
GENDER ISSUES
A.   Gender Divisions of Roles and Responsibilities
B.   Gender Specific Barriers to Development Support
1.  ACHIEVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNT UNDER MRMP I
A.   Approach
B.   Achievements
C.   Lessons learned under MRMP I
1. Approach
2. Institutional capacity of the Women in Development Cell (WID)
3. Lessons to be learned from each one of the activities
- 151 -



I.     GENDER ISSUES
A.     Gender Divisions of Roles and Responsibilities
1.    Gender roles and relationships are analyzed in the context of three key areas: production
(professional); reproduction (domestic) and community (socio-cultural).
Productive roles
2.     Women play an important role in agricultural production. They are mainly responsible for
harvesting several farm products (olives, figs, melon, grapes, pulses, cereals, etc) and for the storage of
products used for home consumption. Threshing is usually done by machine.
3.     The care of livestock inside the house is women's responsibility. They ensure maintenance,
nutrition, watering, cleaning of the pens, animal care, etc. Women are generally helped by their children
to accomplish these tasks. Livestock intensification would, therefore, automatically increase the labor
and the work time of women and children, particularly of girls. Men generally have the responsibility to
tend the flocks in the pastures and when practicing transhumance. Rich families hire shepherds. The
rearing of chickens, turkeys, pigeons, etc. is also undertaken by women.
4.     The productive activities differ according to seasons, geographical location and the family's
economic activities (cereal-growing, figs and transhumance). In all the Project area, the population
distinguish two seasons: summer and winter. People located in the coastal region move towards the
central or southern regions during rainy years to use grazing pastures and for cereal-growing. Those
living in the southern regions move towards the coastal areas to work in the fig orchards or with other
farmers for which they generally receive one-fourth of the total production.
5.     The transhumance areas can be very far from the villages. Men move to these areas and stay
there for long periods of time (5 to 6 months). Women join them for two or three months during the
cereal harvest. The distance separating the transhumance regions from cereal-growing land varies
generally between 5 km at Jaaouine and 80 km at Zallat.
6.    In the coastal regions and during rainy years, besides domestic activities, the women, migrant or
not, work in harvesting cereals, figs and olives. For the rich families located mainly in the coastal
regions, the number of livestock being fattened is high which increases the work time for women. Except
for trading activities related to livestock and other products, men's tasks are largely sporadic. They keep
themselves busy in farming activities and livestock transhumance. During drought years, men seek wage
labor outside their own communities in house construction, farming at Siwa or in other regions. The
possibilities of getting a job locally are limited to the fig season and cereals harvesting during rainy
years. Rich men can hire manpower which can be paid with money or by offering a certain amount of the
harvested product. Therefore, in the coastal regions, the origin of most casual labor is either local or from
the southern area. Casual labor is employed mainly in harvesting of figs, olives and melons or as a
shepherd during rainy years.
7.    In some communities, women seek opportunities to earn additional income by making some craft
products or clothes. These products are generally used by the household. In the coastal regions, women
sell a part of their production either in their community or in the local markets. The oldest women are
generally those who sell the products. The money earned is spent by the women to meet their needs or
- 152-



those of their children. When the family has financial difficulties, the money is used to acquire the basic
food requirements for all the household.
Domestic roles
8.     All the household activities are carried out by women. Besides the classical domestic activities
and the care of children and elderly people, women are also responsible for ensuring water supply for
human use and watering, and for seeking firewood (mainly shrubs) for cooking. Shrub gathering is done
by men when the task will exceed one day, which is the case at Haroune for instance. Men have the
responsibility for domestic activities during the transhumance period when they are moving over long
distances between the community and the pastures. This is the case for example for communities such as
Zaiha, Sallam and Hsouha from the Chaouair tribe. Men carry out all activities during a period of 4
months until they are joined by the women during the harvesting period.
9.     Among the different domestic activities, those which consume a great amount of time are water
collection, fuelwood collection and bread preparation. Whatever the socio-economic status of people,
baking of bread is done using firewood because of the taste. The traditional oven is designed for cooking
only one to two pieces of bread at the same time. Furthermore, cooking is completed in open ovens.
These two parameters increase fuelwood consumption (with I kg of fuelwood required for only one to
two pieces of bread depending on the size of the oven).
10.    Domestic activities generate several health problems for women such as headaches as a result of
water and wood transportation, backache caused by harvesting different farm products, and respiratory
and visual problems because of women's exposure to smoke during several hours each day. The
percentage of people using bottled gas for cooking varies between regions. It decreases from the coastal
regions to the inland areas. The use rate is around 70% to 100% for people living within 10 kms from the
coast, 40 to 70% for those located between 10 to 25 kms from the coast and very low or non-existent for
those beyond this area. Possible changes could occur if men and women are sensitized about the ties
between excess use of fuelwood and the damage to the grazing areas.
11.    Water supply for household use is taken from the nearest underground tank (cistern). When
water in these tanks is exhausted, women have to seek water in other tanks located far from their
community. Except for poor families who do not have adjacent tanks, all households have both distant
and nearby tanks. The time required for water collection varies between 2 hours (in wintertime) and 6
hours (summer time).
12.    Despite the efforts of various projects in supporting the provision of drinking water, water supply
for human and animal use is still a serious problem. Hence, populations located in the southern and
central parts of the Project area continue to buy water during 3 to 6 months in drought years. This water
is supplied by tankers with a capacity of 6 to 8 tonnes. The price varies depending on the location of the
population and the quality of the roads. It varies from LE 50/6 tonnes at N'Gila Aailat Habous to LE 15/8
tonnes at Berrani West Ailat Safafi. The acquired water is used by several families and stored in the
underground tanks. These quantities of water will last for 2 to 3 weeks.
13.   The consumption of water is very low because of the supply difficulties. Water consumption
does not exceed 10 Itrs/person/day in the coastal region and could be as little as 6 Itrs/person/day in the
southern part of the Project area.
14.    Given the low level of domestic equipment and the variety of activities to be completed,
women's work schedule is very busy. Women work between 12 to 14 hours a day. However, as several
- 153 -



women live in each household, they make arrangements to allocate the different tasks. Women generally
classify tasks not only by the time taken to complete them but also by the laboriousness and the
difficulties involved in carrying them out.
Community roles
15.   The involvement of women at the community level is nil. All the decisions are made by men.
Only men are selected as the representative in the community, (mandoub). However, women are involved
in implementing activities in the community. For example, women of the Mhabiss family participated in
building a girls' classroom by gathering stones. Others contribute in building mosques.
Socio-cultural dimension of women
16.   This analysis examines women's role in making decisions within the farming system and
identifies their socio-cultural ability to improve their situation. This also requires understanding women's
capabilities of getting involved in income generating activities and in developing their own initiatives to
improve them.
17.    Knowing who makes decisions and in which areas will be helpful in targeting people and
accelerating change. For example, at the Haroune community, women use contraceptive means for birth
control but they do not decide about their use. Men are generally the actors who impose limits to
women's decisions. Generally, women's involvement within families increases with age. The decisions
made by the old women (grandmothers) concerning the families' business affairs are rarely discussed.
Younger women are not involved in these types of decisions. Even women heads of households
(divorced, widowed or having a handicapped husband), which represent around 5 to 15% of women, are
not permitted access to weekly markets until they exceed a certain age (50 years old or more). Before this
age, women's business affairs are managed by the male relatives who protect her. However, beyond the
age of 40 years, and when her children get married, women are systematically consulted before decisions
are made. The decision-making process within families and in the community needs to be studied in more
detail in order to be able to distinguish between the different levels and nature of participation. This
requires an in-depth study to understand men's and women's attitudes and behavior towards different
events. The study should also focus on women's self image, their socio-economic status and their
organizational capabilities. Such a study should be undertaken as part of the diagnostic exercise to
identify ways to accelerate change and to strengthen women's position. At this stage, it would appear that
one of the best ways to improve women's position in the family and the community is to increase their
education level by fighting illiteracy.
Access and control of resources and the gender issue
18.   The lack of data regarding this aspect makes it hard to appreciate women's participation in
different activities and the benefits they draw from them. In the Project area, the resources could be
physical or skills. Do women have access and/or control of these resources? How much knowledge and
data are available regarding this system in MRMP I? In the following, some findings (using interviews)
regarding control over resources will be presented
19.   Means of production Access to land, the main production factor in the region, is achieved
through inheritance and this discriminates against women because of the existing common law (Ufirf)
prevailing in the tribes. Some changes are occurring among certain families where men offer money to
female relatives in lieu of the inherited land. This is done to prevent land from falling into the hands of
outsiders from the tribe. In the Project area, women do not benefit from the Islamic law. More
- 154-



information needs to be collected as part of the participatory diagnosis.
20.    Control of income Even though women make a significant contribution to the implementation of
different activities, they do not have any control over resources and draw only indirect benefits (for the
family). Control over income is exercised by men. The decisions related to increasing or limiting the
number of livestock are made by men except in the case of women headed households. The choice of
crops is also made by men, who also control all activities related to marketing. However, in hard times,
the incomes made by women as a result of carrying out handicraft activities or breeding small livestock,
are used to provide necessary commodities to ensure the nutrition of the family. Conscious of these
problems, women are confident that the best way to strengthen their position is to improve their
educational level by fighting their illiteracy.
21.    Social and technical services. After implementing the different activities during MIRMP I, some
changes have occurred in women's attitudes and behavior towards some traditions. There is some
evidence of a transition period. However, the observed changes among the population differ between the
regions of the Project located in the south and those located in the north. In the majority of the sites
visited, women complain about the lack of social services (health and education). To face these
problems, women have developed traditional methods to treat illness and improve their educational level
by correspondence.
22.    Information. The deficiencies in women's access to services and the side effects of illiteracy
limit their access to information. Information technologies such as TV and radio are seldom used by
women because of the lack of electricity and financial means. In the southern part of the Project area,
particularly in poor families, radio listening is reserved for men. Under the Project, broadcasts related to
information about the Project should be targeted to men and women to increase the listening. Periodic
evaluations must be implemented to assess the impact of the broadcasts. Women have a desire to learn
and their ability to do so has been amply demonstrated under MRMP I through which women have
developed veterinary skills and learnt how to treat animals' diseases. Women's main priority is to fight
illiteracy. This desire to improve their educational standard indicates a willingness to take charge of
themselves and their development.
Management system of natural resources
23.    Women, like men, have a close relationship with the environment and are aware of the factors
which damage the environment. Women play an important role in educating children on aspects related
to the environment. Women also disseminate local knowledge to other members of the extended family
regarding the possible uses of different plants (medicinal, fodder crops etc.). Women's involvement with
natural resources (water, grazing pasture and vegetation) include:
(a)    Use of medicinal plants to treat their diseases and those of their families;
(b)    Management and use of natural or cultivated space surrounding their houses (men are generally
absent);
(c)    Gathering fuelwood to prepare meals;
(d)    Cleaning the inlets to collect rain water into tanks; and
(e)    Water supply for human and animal use.
24.    Given their high level of involvement, women should participate in all the activities related to the
environment. Changes in farming systems have a serious impact on women and the environment. In
Aailate Haroune the time spent in fuelwood collection has increased from a few hours to two days over a
- 155-



period of 20 years. Furthermore, the changes regarding the livestock system generate more work for
women in addition to their negative impact on the biodiversity. These changes occurred as a result of
deficiencies in natural resource management indicating the importance of sensitizing both men and
women about environmental problems.
25.    Thus, the management of natural resources requires the design and implementation of a women's
sensitization program. However, since women's involvement at the family and community levels is low,
sensitization of men is also necessary. This particularly applies to management of the grazing areas
which is the one area where women do not intervene (except the women-headed households) and which
is totally under the charge of men. The centers to be established by the Project could be used for
organizing sensitization sessions for men, women and children. The Koutabs in the mosques could be
associated with this effort to teach men and children. Some posters showing extreme situations (positive
and negative) could be put up in all the public areas.
Social relationship system. Men's attitudes directly influence women's position in society, and hence it
is essential that men are convinced about women strengthening their position in order to ensure the
sustainability of change. This concept is very important in the Matruh region. Improving women's
position and strengthening their involvement does not only mean implementing activities in favor of
women. Depending on the findings of the participatory diagnosis of each situation, actions should be
addressed to men as well as to women. An analysis focusing only on women will not be able to explain
women's situation because several of their concerns are managed by men, including some key decisions
such as contraceptive use.
B.     Gender Specific Barriers to Development Support
Barriers related to human resource development
26.    Deficiency in girls' education. The deficiency or lack of girls' education will produce more
illiterate people. Parents are giving more importance to boys' education than to girls. Furthermore,
depending on communities, an outside teacher cannot teach girls with an age greater than 10 to 12 years.
Girls of 10 to 12 years of age can go to schools located up to 5 km from their homes, but this distance is
limited to 3 km for those more than 12 years old. The lack of birth certificates, caused by the marriages
organized by the common law (Uurf), prevents girls and boys from enrolling in school. In some regions,
more than 60% of children do not have a birth certificate. Besides this, other factors such as poverty and
tradition limit girls' enrolment.
27.    The lack of infrastructure has a greater impact on girls. Whereas the community is willing to
organize and pay for education for boys, it does not extend the same facilities to girls. At Azarariaa
located in the Aaraoua tribe, the community has for the last 10 years hired an engineer to teach boys by
paying to him LE 5 monthly for each boy. In the Omar's family, the teacher is paid LE 10/boy/month.
This difference in the amount paid could be explained by the number of enrolled boys. The first one is
teaching 50 boys where the second is teaching only 20. Recently, the girls have also been enrolled
because the Project is paying the school fees. A big difference exists between the southern and northern
regions regarding children's education. In the coastal region, basic girls' education is almost at the same
level as for boys. A difference is noticed at secondary school level for many reasons: long distance,
reduced movements for girls, tradition, etc. Generally, people living in the coastal region are relatively
more emancipated (compared to those living in the southern region), have less social pressure, have more
schools and a better socio-economic status.
- 156-



28.   Illiteracy. The illiteracy rate is virtually 100% for women above 16 years. This rate is 95% for
men living in the southern region and 30% for those living in the coastal region. The difference between
men and women could be explained by the fact that in the past, only boys were allowed to go to koranic
schools. Moreover, these schools have deteriorated and declined in number because of people's poverty
which does not allow them to maintain them in a good condition. In the communities visited, men are in
favor of girls' education but less in favor of women's education. However, the means are limited and
teaching women requires a teacher from the same family. At Zallat for instance, a woman from the
community has been trained to take charge of women's education.
Barriers related to health and nutritional aspects
29.    Health and reproduction. Women located in the southern communities continue to give birth at
home, which is harmful for them and for their babies. Family planning is an idea generally accepted by
men and women but it is not applied by all women because of poverty and non-appropriate contraceptive
means offered by the Ministry of Health. In the southern regions, family planning continues to be
considered as a crime. A sensitization program of men and women therefore needs to be implemented.
30.    Children's health and nutrition. The inadequate monitoring of children's health, lack of
hygiene and the use of non-treated water are the main cause of diseases among children. Poverty
accelerated by drought during the last years increased malnutrition, mainly among people living in the
southern region.
31.    Hygiene. The problems of hygiene are enormous. They are mainly related to insufficient
supplies of water, ignorance of hygienic practices, poverty, etc.
Barriers related to socio-economic and cultural conditions
32.    Poverty. The poverty rate increases from the coastal area to the interior within the Project area.
This poverty has a severe impact on women and children. The high concentration of poor people requires
designing different strategies when implementing each activity.
33.    Reduced mobility. Women's mobility is limited to the vicinity of the house and the surrounding
cultivated areas. They generally move around accompanied by a man from the family. The trips to
weekly markets and the access to market places are reserved for old and widowed women. A woman can
travel 5 km from her community to look for fuelwood but is not allowed to do the same to go to school.
34.    Customs and traditions. Customs and traditions are an important barrier for women's
development. Women are rarely involved in decisions and their mobility is very limited. They are not
allowed to travel alone. Whilst their contribution to productive activities is welcomed, their access to
schools and hospitals is socially refused.
35.   Women's representation. Women live in an environment characterized by unfavorable
conditions (lack of social infrastructure, poverty, etc). Their low status within their families and their
communities can be explained partly by their attitudes towards themselves. Women's self-image is lower
than men's. When men give responsibilities to women, the latter cannot assume them because of their
low self-esteem.
36.   Lack of organizations. Formal organizations are lacking for both men and women. The
community's affairs are managed by a Ouumda (at the downstream level) and an Aakel at a higher level.
- 157-



The Project encouraged the appointment of mandoubs (representatives of communities). Men usually
take charge of the management of the community's activities and women are not involved, either directly
or indirectly. Therefore, they are not informed about events and the news of their community.
Barriers related to the lack of basic infrastructure and equipment
37.    Lack of roads. Communities are scattered which hinders their development. This situation limits
the population's access to social services, to marketing networks, input supply services, etc.
38.    Failing or deficient social services. Regarding health services, the hospitals are lacking means
and some of them are only partially functional. Consulting is generally limited to obtaining a
prescription. Poverty handicaps people obtaining necessary medicines. For example, according to some
interviewed women, husbands have difficulties in regularly buying contraceptives and < the cost of
conceiving a child is less than providing contraception )) as mentioned by a woman from Aailat Haroun.
The majority of functional schools are located along the main road. This situation does not allow people
living far from this infrastructure to have education, particularly for girls.
39.    Settlement structure. The population was originally nomadic and adopted a sedentary life only
during the last 30 to 40 years. In the settlement process, people tried to occupy the maximum space to
meet their needs. At that time, people were not concerned about a common use of the community's
infrastructure. Furthermore, each big family (Aaila) had a large territory exceeding several square kms.
Now, the scattered housing hinders the implementation of activities particularly with women (meetings,
organization etc).
40.    Lack of equipment and domestic technologies. Poverty together with the customs of the
nomadic style of life did not encourage the population to invest in housing and household goods. Hence
the present life-style is not conducive to optimizing the value of women's time and efforts. For example,
meals are prepared using traditional kitchen utensils. This situation generates (i) lengthy time; (ii)
high-energy consumption; (iii) women's exposure to smoke during several hours each day. These
constraints should be added to those related to collecting water and wood, and care of livestock which all
contribute to a very busy schedule for women.
Barriers related to ignorance of natural resource conservation
41.    Besides the climatic effects, the high human pressure on the environment is very important. This
pressure is caused by livestock and uprooted fuelwood.
II.    ACHIEVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNT UNDER MRMP I
A.     Approach
42.    The women's component was integrated into the Project in 1996. From that time, the
implementation of activities used an approach which sought to involve women in the development
process. The strategy used was to address women's problems through men or a mandoub. This method
has some advantages because it focuses on specific women's concerns, but it also has side effects
because it excludes women from other Project activities. This is a serious problem for the minority of
women-headed households. However, the Project addressed some of these problems during the latter
stages of implementation.
43.    The training sessions and the technical monitoring of the implementing staff were deficient in
-158-



some aspects. The Community Action Plans were established by sole consultation of the mandoubs. The
participatory approach has been used but the social and cultural conditions have limited its use. Apart
from some credit operations, the programs for women was established by the mandoubs. The
implementing team monitored some of the activities by implementing sensitization sessions for men and
women at the community level. Furthermore, the instructors drew lessons from these experiences which
could be used in Phase 1I of the Project.
44.    The lack of conditions and clear criteria for choosing beneficiaries encouraged individual
demands. The Project used a supply and demand approach. This method has several limits because of the
large number of activities to be implemented. The demands were not categorized according to the
socio-economic status of the households. Furthermore, the implementing team was not free in selecting
the beneficiaries. The choice was generally modified by other actors without giving any justification. The
changes made in the beneficiaries decreased the staff's credibility and created confusions regarding their
actual role.
B.     Achievements
45.    Several achievements were accomplished - these are indicated in the Table 1 below. A significant
effort was made by the women's component in education. 5,600 girls were enrolled into schools. The
duration of the education provided increased and has presently reached 3 years. Some attempts to
improve women's skills were also made (training in handicrafts), but confronted several problems and
their expectations were not met. According to the women's needs, some equipment was acquired through
the WFP program or by rural credit.
Impact of the Project
46.    The first phase of the Project has been helpful to understand how the society is functioning and
how it is organized. In spite of the deficiency regarding the selection of beneficiaries and the limitations
of the approach used, some positive impacts, mainly qualitative, have been achieved, namely:
(a)    Changes in men's attitudes and behavior towards women's involvement in the development;
(b)    Awareness of women's situation and their willingness to improve it;
(c)    Women's ability to approach topics considered as taboo such as family planning, gender
relations, decision making;
(d)    Acquired skills in different domains despite the existing deficiencies in poultry farming,
agricultural products preservation and health and hygiene;
(e)    The quantitative results are significant (Table l) in spite of the problems related to deficiencies
in focusing on poor women; and
(f)    Women's awareness in several communities and their willingness to innovate and change their
situation has been enhanced.
C.     Lessons leamed under MRMP I
47.    The main lessons to retain from the first Phase of the Project are as follows:
(a)   Approach
(a)    Insufficient knowledge regarding the socio-economic aspects of the communities;
(b)    Lack of an in-depth diagnosis to establish a classification of priorities to be used in
- 159-



planning of women's activities;
(c)    Insufficient women's involvement in selecting activities;
(d)    Lack of criteria in selecting beneficiaries;
(e)    Ignorance of minorities mainly women-headed households to allow them to benefit from
some of the Project's core activities (tanks, management of grazing pastures, breakwater);
(f)    Deficiencies in sensitization and extension sessions in some areas (poultry, environment,
hygiene);
(g)    Deficiencies in targeting activities according to women's needs; and
(h)    Lack of a regular reporting system on the impact and social evolution of the
communities.
1.    Institutional capacity of the Women in Development Cell (WID)
48.   In the first Phase of the Project, the Women's Cell was tied to the Extension Department. This
situation may provide advantages in facilitating coordination, but it does not allow the WID team to work
freely. Moreover, the WID team should coordinate its activities with all other Project components.
49.    The WID team comprises a multi-disciplinary group in which each member has a different
experience. Two people are attached to each SRSC with one of them taking the lead. The high level of
turnover of the WID team members has hindered continuity in Project activities. 50% of the staff has
been working for the Project for less than 3 years. In some areas (e.g. Abou Safafi), the activities were
never implemented due to changes in the staff and lack of institutional memory, in spite of the
community having been consulted. The main constraints related to the Project's institutional structure for
implementing women's activities are:
(a)    The dependency of the Women's Cell on the Extension Department decreases its effectiveness;
(b)    Limited experience of some staff does not allow the WID team to work effectively in a complex
social environment;
(c)    Limited responsibility in selecting the beneficiaries and the negative interference of the
mandoubs;
(d)    Lack of guidelines on eligibility criteria and conditions to access Project activities;
(e)    A high turnover in the WID team, which hinders continuity of action (more than one third of the
staff has less than three years experience of working in the Project. Only two women have worked since
1996 and one post is still vacant). In some regions (at Abou Safafi for example), the programs were never
implemented;
(f)    Lack of equipment such as transportation and computers;
(g)    Insufficient staff compared to the size of the Project area, the total number of localities, and the
diversity of activities to be carried out.
(h)    Difficulties in bringing women together because of the local customs and traditions, lack of
meeting rooms, conflicts between families and sometimes the fear of husbands; and
(i)    Deficiencies in monitoring and evaluation. This situation allowed the mandoubs to get very
involved in selecting the beneficiaries without any participation of the population.
2.     Lessons to be leamed from each one of the activities
Education infrastructure:.Social centers
(a)    Lack of criteria and conditions for establishing a center;
(b)    Problems in involving the community;
- 160-



(c)    Centers are effectively controlled by the mandoub in the majority of the cases (facilities, offering
land,
monitoring);
(d)    Problems related to the location of the centers;
(e)    Inappropriate scale of the centers which generally exceed the population's needs;
(f)    Centers' functionality is limited to education;
(g)    Lack of ownership of the centers by the people; and
(h)    Lack of a committee or an association for management. As a result the mandoubs make all the
decisions
concerning the centers.
Education of girls
(a)    Scattered housing;
(b)    Customs and traditions;
(c)    Difficulties in finding a man or a woman from the same family as a teacher;
(d)    Difficulties in finding a teaching room;
(e)    Poverty which limits parents from providing supplies;
(f)    Reluctance of communities to enroll girls when school facilities are lacking for boys;
(g)    Social problems between families limits the enrolment of children when the school is located in
the house of one family in the community; and
(h)    Mobility is very limited: less than 5 kms for girls aged 10 to 12 years and less than 3 kms for
those aged over 12 years.
Education of women
(b)    Scattered housing;
(c)    Customs and traditions;
(d)    Difficulties in finding a man or a woman from the same family as teacher;
(e)    Difficulties in finding a teaching room;
(f)    Problems related to women's busy schedule; and
(g)    Women's limited mobility (less than 3 kms).
Health
(a)    Lack of basic materials for use in consultations;
(b)    Dispersed housing does not help in gathering women for sensitization and  demonstration
sessions; and
(c)    Social conflicts cause problems in finding space for meetings;
Home gardens
(a)    Difficulties in acquiring seedlings because of the Project's rules;
(b)    Insufficient rich soil and water particularly among poor people;
(c)    Lack of monitoring by extension workers regarding the production used for nutritional balance;
and
(d)    Lack of extension activities related to cropping techniques.
Latrines
- 161 -



(a)    The technical aspects of construction of latrines and cesspits should be monitored with the
participants and people should be issued with guidelines to follow.
Manual pumps
(a)    Quality problems with the pumps breaking down shortly after their receipt. This situation could
be prejudicial for credit recovery.
- 162-



Additional Annex 18: Participatory Development and Community Capacity Building
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Second Matruh Resource Management Project
Table of Contents
I.   BACKGROUND
II. ACHIEVEMENTS AND LESSONS LEARNT UNDER MRMP I
A.   Approach to Participatory Development
B.   Achievements
C.  Implications on Phase II Project Design
-163-



I.     BACKGROUND
1.    The Project Area comprises a semi-desert environment inhabited by the Bedouin tribes (or
Qabila) of nomadic origin who underwent a process of sedentarisation one to two generations ago
particularly along the coastal area (15 to 20 Iam). The history of population movement and tribal
relationships shows that tribal territories are not found in consolidated blocks of land: the 5 dominant
tribes descending from the tribal confederation of Awled Ali (Ali-El Abiadh, Ali El Ahmar, Senana,
Gomerate and Quotaan) represent more than 60% of the population. They are scattered all along the
Project area in the form of sub-tribes. It is the same for the murabtin who are constituted of sub-tribes of
diverse origins settled a long time ago in Awled Ali territories. However, they are still of a lower social
rank.
2.     Social structures are characterized by patriarchal and patrilineal organization. They can be
summarized as follows:
(a)    a sub-tribe is the most common reference group. It is a closely limited blood- related group;
(b)    each sub-tribe is composed of a number of "Aila" (or clan) which is a more closely blood related
group. It consists of a number of families, usually from the same ancestors, stretching over 3-5
generations at least; and
(c)    at the basic level, the "Bayt", is a large family group made up of 3 to 6 households (or usra)
which inhabit the same hawsh ,and constitute both a residential and a socio-economic unit. It is rarely
only one nuclear family.
3.     The transition to sedentary agriculture was largely politically inspired. The settlement patterns
are determined by the natural resources. Consequently, the population is highly dispersed, according to
available water resources (wadis or small rivers) and arable lands. Except for the communal southern
rangelands, the tribal territory has, over the last fifty years, been 'allocated' to individual tribesmen (per
bayt). The land legally belongs to the State, but defacto usufruct is well recognized by the governmental
authorities. In the communal southern rangelands, some sub-tribes' members continue to have exclusive
rights to use the rangelands and communal water (Roman cisterns), but others need a prior permission.
4.     Concerning the traditional leadership hierarchy, each tribe and sub-tribe is headed by its own
sheikh, who is usually the eldest son or descendant of the deceased sheikh. He is responsible for the
security and stability of his sub-tribe and for making juridical decisions. He is held in the highest esteem
and accorded the highest privileges. The tribe and sub- tribe sheikh is supported by a committee
concerned with legal and social aspects. At the lower level (aila or clan), the equivalent of the sub tribe
sheikh is the "Aaquer' (or Elder) who is accorded the highest prestige and influence.
5.     This traditional organization plays a primordial role in the communal life of these different
groups, but the relationships between the people and the governmental authorities are managed by 3
"modem" institutions: the Omda, the local council and the cooperative. The Omda represents the
administrative authority at the level of one or several sub-tribes. Theoretically, the Omda's authority is
validated by the sheikh. The Omda is selected and appointed by the local government and he is headed by
the administrative hierarchy (village's president and the governor of Governorate. His authority is more
administrative than political, and he is the link between his constituency and the governmental as well as
the civil authorities.
6.     The popular local council constitutes the basic elected institution, which has essentially a
- 164-



consultative role. There are three categories of popular local councils: village popular local councils,
municipality popular local council (for towns), and District popular local councils. They are consulted
essentially in matters concerning social infrastructures financed by the government or any other Projects
(e.g. Shourouk Fund), but the governmental officials (village president, city president and governors) are
the real decision-makers and managers of the budget. It is worth noting that the division of the territory
into villages is not always in accordance with the tribal division. A village generally comprises one
agglomeration with habitations scattered in a ray of 5 to 10 km (5 000-10 000 inhabitants); it generally
contains the main basic public infrastructures (primary school, health center, rural social unit, veterinary
center, water conveyance or public cistern), and an agriculture cooperative society. The influence of the
village only extends to the population concentrations close to the road and most of the dispersed tribal
settlements are not effectively integrated into the functioning of the village.
7.     The cooperative organization was first established in the 1960s. In the Project Area, there are
about 50 basic cooperatives (agriculture and livestock) headed by a central cooperative covering all the
Governorate territory. Basic cooperative societies, managed by elected administrative committees, are
theoretically autonomous, but practically, they remain highly dependent on the central cooperative in
their cornmercial activities and financial aspects. Their main activity is the sale of animal feed and the
marketing of local products especially wool and olives. Most of these cooperatives are indebted to the
government (as banks rarely provide them with funds). Their activities diminish yearly, and many of
them have a reputation amongst the local population for bad management.
8.    In this social and institutional context, MRMP considered that its main objective (natural
resource management) required promoting a new specific concept of organization of the population,
based on tribal, social and geographic criteria that do not necessarily correspond to the administrative
and/or cooperative criteria. Based on socio-economic studies carried out during the Project preparation
phase, 38 Local Communities, "socially and geographically homogenous", were identified to constitute
the new social unit of planning and development. They would be assigned the role of partners in planning
and implementing the development activities supported by the Project. This new organization was
considered more suitable for the participatory approach needed for Project implementation.
II.    ACHIEVEMENTS AND LESSONS LEARNT UNDER MRMP I
A.     Approach to Participatory Development
9.     MRMP adopted an innovative approach to identify priorities, and for planning and monitoring
activities. The focus of the proposed mechanism was the Community Action Plan (CAP) prepared and
implemented by the local Community Group (CG), which constitutes a committee composed by 7
representatives (mandoubeen) elected by their relevant ailaat, and technically supported by Project staff.
This three-year plan would be reviewed annually with the community, and appropriate adjustments
would be made through annual programs. Plans and programs would be submitted to the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) for review and approval.
10.   The Project document proposed a progressive process: two communities would be selected in a
pilot phase to initiate CAPs and permit Project management and staff to adopt a gradual stepwise
development strategy which would allow staff to be trained and lessons to be learnt. In parallel, the
Project management would mobilize international technical assistance (4 person-months was proposed)
to support and train staff. This staff was essentially formed by agricultural engineers from the
Governorate Department of Agriculture, who were not familiar with the new participatory methodology.
- 165-



11.   However, concerning basic community organizations and their representatives (CG), the Project
document seems to have been particularly ambitious and too optimistic. It notably expected that:
(a)    local communities would function as a formal user group not only toward the Project staff but
also toward other government agencies; and
(b)    the role of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be temporary, and by the end of the
implementation period, the interface between the local community (through their CG) and the
implementing agencies would be strong enough to eliminate PCU.
B.    Achievements
12.   Probably under the pressure of the local authorities and the population, and in response to the
delay in the PCU establishment, staff mobilization, purchase of vehicles, etc. the Project management
skipped the proposed pilot phase and, in parallel, started implementation of the Project activities,
especially the main priorities of the population, namely cisterns, and soil and water conservation
structures, in the 38 local communities without preliminary participatory planning. The data collected in
1995 (covering about 13 000 households) was used to estimate the households' needs on the basis of
average water consumption hypotheses with regard to human, animals and plants listed.
13.   The annual program based on this methodology and established at the central level (particularly
by the Soil and Water Unit) was distributed to the Local Communities, and the CG members' role was
limited to:
(a)    sharing the quota allocated to their Local Community in proportion to the bayt and household
population per aila; and
(b)    selection, by the mandoubeen, of individual beneficiaries in each aila without intervention of
other CG members or other Project representatives.
14.   For other activities, (range management and shrub plantation, agriculture extension, women's
activities, etc.), programming was done at the central level, and contacts between technicians and farmers
were generally made at the individual level, sometimes with the participation of the CG representatives
concerned, but rarely through the CG.
15.   The preparation of the Community Action Plans (CAPs) only started in 1996, shortly after the
first training and technical support mission (July1996). The first CAP (for Local Community number 10
in Marsa Matruh SRSC) was finalized only in 1997, together with four other CAPs (one for each SRSC).
Finally, 38 CAPs were elaborated during the 1996-2000 period, generally with the participation of CG
members, but rarely through a participatory diagnosis conducted at the basic level.
16.   There were many reasons for the lengthy preparation process for the CAPs:
(a)    the functions of planning, formulation of the CAPs and support to local conmmunities was not
assigned to specific staff, neither at the SRSC level, nor at the PCU level. At the latter level, a Local
Community Coordination Unit (LCCU) has been created, but only in 1998 - a part-time engineer has
been assigned to it, but without a clear job description and clear tasks.
(b)    insufficient on-the-job staff training (only two weeks per year between 1996 and 2000);
(c)    the absence of adequate monitoring by the Project management which gives priority to achieving
the physical activities of the Project and continued programming these based on the communities' needs
estimated through the data base collected in 1995, without reference to the CAPs;
- 166-



(d)    the SRSC Directors and staff, unmotivated by this attitude and very busy with day- to-day
technical activities, have allocated little time to elaborating the CAPs and to the other preliminary
activities, such as field visits and meetings with the population, discussions, and negotiations with CG
members.
17.   Consequently, the preparation of the CAPs has essentially been a " learning exercise", and the
decision making process is seldom referred to. The monitoring and evaluation system also refers to
central planning, and, despite many recommendations of technical assistance and World Bank
supervision missions, the SRSC Directors seldom organize participatory assessment of programs with the
CG members and the population. On the other hand, the Project document did not propose specific
activities for strengthening the communities' capacity in this area (training and other support forms).
Since 1998, some farmers and CG members have benefited from local and overseas training sessions and
field visits managed by the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA),
but, despite the recommendations of participatory development missions, all the activities have only
focused on technical matters.
18.   This situation had resulted in 6 major negative impacts:
(a)    A "top down" programming system which did not permit Project staff to implement a true
planning process at the base level,
(b)    The population at the local level has very seldom been associated in the identification of needs
and classification of the priority activities, and the CAPs have been essentially prepared with the
participation of the mandoubeen only. The great dispersion of the population (about 300 ailaat or clans)
constitutes a true fact, but not the determinant.
(c)    Women have not been associated with the planning process, and the female Project workers
contacted them door-to-door because of the social and cultural difficulties in organizing large meetings.
(d)    The CGs elected at the beginning of Project implementation have seldom functioned as
collective management organs for planning and monitoring, and the SRSC staff itself has preferred
individual contact with the representatives;
(e)    Many influential persons directly requested the Project management to obtain subsidies,
particularly for cisterns and reservoirs, beyond the quota accorded to the communities (about 5% to 20%
of the investments, according to the communities, were financed through this " parallel channel"),
(f)    The CGs members were given the discretion of selection of the beneficiaries without any
interference from the Project staff, but, despite recommendations to give priority to the most deprived
people, the selection of the beneficiaries in many cases did not conform to the above recommendations.
C.     Implicatlons on Phase 11 Project Design
19.   In terms of community development, planning and strengthening the capacities of local
communities, the Phase I Project has probably been too ambitious in designing its objectives, without a
clear strategy and the necessary means to attain them (appropriate organization, human resources,
training, etc.) Despite this, the concepts of community development, participatory planning,
representation of the local population, etc. have become more familiar in the Project Area. Even if
attainments were modest, and despite weaknesses, the Project has contributed in creating an institutional
mechanism of dialogue and consultation with the local population, and in laying the foundations for the
new Phase focusing on real participatory development and community capacity building.
20.    This implies that for Phase II many important adjustments would be introduced first in the
Project concept, and then in its implementation. The main adjustments are as follows:
- 167-



(a)   the participatory approach should be adopted from the commencement of implementation in all
activities supported by the Project and through involving the population directly;
(b)    CAPs and the annual work programs of the communities should be prepared with the full
participation of all the members of the local communities, especially poor and women.
(c)    CAPs and annual work programs should be used as the main tool in the planning of activities and
preparation of the budget at the level of the PCU,
(d)    Transparency and the use of appropriate criteria should be addressed in the selection of the
beneficiaries (giving priority to poor people), and their contributions to the investment cost should be
clarified and modulated,
(e)    Specific activities should be designed to strengthen the capacity of the local communities, and to
enhance the capabilities of their representatives in order to contribute to building community
self-reliance.
21.    To achieve these orientations in the implementation process, it will be necessary to:
(a)    enhance decentralization and strengthen the SRSC Directors and staff,
(b)    put in place full-time teams to be responsible for participatory planning and community capacity
building both at the level of PCU and SRSC,
(c)    design an intensive training and technical support for these teams and for the communities'
representatives.
(d)    clarify the assignments and the role of these representatives and put in place a strategy and
appropriate conditions which permit the informal CG to move progressively to a legal community based
organization (CBO) able to access other public and private services to ensure continuation of their
development beyond the Project implementation period.
- 168-



MAp SECTION






Sidi Borroni
SUIOUrn                                                                     MEDITERRANEAN                SEA
-*                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE EHikmna
El Al/men 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Area
r--~ YEAR ROUND GRAZING WITH ORCHARDS AND aARLEY IN SUITABLE
m~...J /c AYEAS AND VEGETABLES WHERZE ACCUMALAION OF WATER OCCURS
YEAR ROUND GRAZINGCVITHFREQUENTBARLEYCULTIVATlONIN
\  zz     MNY WIVANTER AND SENOGRAGING WITH OCCASIONAL BARLEY
CUTVMNIN DEPRESSIONS.
0       SUB\ REGOINA" SUPIPORT CENTERS
-J                                                                       A      MATRUH RESOURCE hMANAGEMENT CENTER
_ _   OADS
-I--I-I- RAJLRGOADS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARJES
S,wct  RILOMITYRE  _________________________                          ~~~~~~~~~ ~~of red,,  ndR  .  for  Ik hABRE
0 /     25       50       75       0                               nwerwol use of TheWoRddBonk  LIBYA  EGYPT
/KILO)MTERtS  |                                                                 . _ llod' thcoovdrc  shmOn  i-,
B              ?S    l      wn                                          | 2 So  I ORCOthO do n.tp?th
soch Woadnren         CHAD       s Up,s






I



gMAGIMS
Repor No.:         25438   EGT
Type:     PAD



