03/05/02
EGYPT: SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (MRMP II)
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES MANUAL        E606
I.  OBJECTIVE OF THE MANUAL                       Volume 2
II.  POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
A.  EGYPTIAN ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAMEWORK
B.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
C.  ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
III. SUMMARY OF GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION MEASURES
IV. SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES
A.  OBJECTIVE OF THE SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES
B.  SUB-PROJECTS SUBJECT TO SAFEGUARD SCREENING
PROCEDURES
C.  USE OF SUB-PROJECT SCREENING CHECKLISTS
D.  PCU REVIEW AND APPROVAL
E.  EEAA OR MATRUH EMJU REVIEW AND APPROVAL
F.  FIELD SUPERVISION
G.  SUB-PROJECT EXECUTION AND MONITORING
V.  ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND CAPACITY PROGRAM
A.  ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING FOR PCU/EEAA/EMU STAFF AND
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
B.  CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PCU, EEAA/NCS, AND MATROUH
GOVERNORATE EMU
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
A.  MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION MEASURES
B.  MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
C.  MONITORING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EMP
ANNEXES
A.  EXTRACTS FROM MOST RELEVANT LEGISLATION
B.  ENVIRONMENTAL SUB-PROJECT SCREENING CHECKLISTS



03/05/02
EGYPT: SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (MRMP II)
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES MANUAL
I.    OBJECTIVE OF THE MANUAL
The objective of this Environmental Guidelines Manual (EGM) is to provide the
background informnation and guidance needed to support effective implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the MRMP II, whose environmental mitigation
measures, sub-project screening procedures, capacity-building, and monitoring activities are
designed to ensure that any potential adverse environmental impacts are either eliminated or
minimised. To this end, the EGM:
*  Provides information on the good practice mitigation measures identified to address
the significant environmental issue raised by the project (i.e., drinking water quality),
as well as other good practice that should be reflected in all project activities.
*  Details the environmental screening procedures for the small-scale infrastructure sub-
projects under the MRMP II to ensure that they comply with Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency (EEAA) EIA requirements and World Bank safeguard policies.
*  Describes the program of training and capacity building that the MRMP II will
undertake in order to ensure mainstreaming of environmental considerations
throughout the life of the project.
*  Describes the monitoring program the MRMP II will carry out in order to evaluate the
environmental impacts of the project and determine necessary changes in practice.
Taken together, the EGM and the EMP are the primary operational tools available
to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MRMP II to ensure compliance with World
Bank safeguards and EEAA requirements.
Safeguards. The MRMP II will have mostly beneficial impacts on the
environment, however some safeguard policies are triggered by the project. In accordance
with WB policy, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) are
triggered by the MRMP II. Depending on issues to be resolved within the next two years, OP
4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) will or will not be triggered, while OP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats) and OP 4.09 (Pest Management) are not triggered. The reasons for this are stated
below:
OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) OP 4.01, the environmental assessment
process, has been triggered since the implementation of MRMP II could have potential
adverse environmental impacts. The field-based EA, however, determined that there are no
potential large-scale, significant or irreversible environmental impacts. Those potential
impacts that were identified (i.e., drinking water quality, range rehabilitation, small sub-
projects, and rural roads) can be effectively mitigated and are addressed in the EMP and
EGM. The EMP identifies the major potential environmental issues that could arise as a result
of project interventions and propose measures to be taken to prevent/mitigate these effects,
including training and monitoring measures. The EGM provides safeguard screening
procedures for sub-projects, as well as identification of good practices for environmental
mitigation. Institutional and legal policies related to project activities are also discussed. The
EA integrates social, financial, institutional, technical and economic aspects of the project.
2



03/05/02
OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) The objective at the center of OD 4.20 is to ensure
that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the development process. In the
case of MRMP II, indigenous peoples (Bedouins) comprise the entire population living in the
target area, and therefore OP 4.20 is triggered. However, since the Bedouins are the sole
project beneficiaries; the MRMP II is designed through a thorough participatory process; and
all project interventions have been designed with the improvement of the status of the
Bedouins (poverty alleviation, access to water, improved rangeland management, social well-
being, etc.), there is no need for the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
OP 4 04 (Natural Habitats) The Egyptian Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
has as one of its main objectives the expansion of the National Protected Areas Network to
become more fully representative of the nation's biodiversity and ecosystem. The project is
proposing to support the Nature Conservation Sector/ EEAA in establishing two of the four
proposed protected areas on the western Mediterranean Cost, namely Salloum and El Qasr
(see attached map of Proposed Future Protected Areas of Egypt). These areas, as per the
definition of the OP and BP 4.04 contain natural habitat, and have been selected as proposed
future protected areas according to the following criteria for selection of protected areas
adopted by NCS/EEAA:
*  Representation as a primary habitat in the protected area network
*  Importance for biodiversity
*  Intactness of the site
*  Possibility for effective management
*  Presence of other important non-biological resources (e.g. landscape value, geological
features)
*  Potential benefit to local communities and national economy
Salloum is identified as one of Egypt's highest biodiversity conservation priority areas, with
high botanical richness and largest remaining tract of relatively intact and undisturbed coastal
habitat in the whole Mediterranean coast, and one of the least populated. The proposed
protected area encompasses a great diversity of habitats in a fairly compact area, including
coastal dunes, coastal oolitic ridges, extensive intact coastal salt marshes and other saline
habitat. El Qasr represents a fairly undisturbed example of a unique and restricted habitat in
Egypt - the Mediterranean coastal steppe. It is part of El Diffa Miocene Plateu, a vast flat
sand and gravel plain with scattered clay pans and features a diversity of habitat types and
biological components that are marginally represented within Egypt's current network of
protected areas. Both proposed PA's are currently exposed to a number of threats that result
from activities outside of MRMP, including uncontrolled and unsustainable tourism
development along the coastal fronts, uncontrolled exploitation of the resources by the
population and unregulated hunting, unsustainable agricultural practices, particularly by the
military, and the lack of planned zoning for development. The project, through supporting the
preparatory and declaration phases for the PA's will aim to ensure sustainable management of
the resources within these important areas under the relevant IUCN categories. As with other
PA's in Egypt, the zoning and micro-zoning within the PA will'be done so as to ensure that
highest conservation status (zero impact) is attributed to the most endangered natural habitat,
while sustainable uses for recreational activities can be assigned to the rest of the PA habitat.
The remaining project area outside of the PA's will also benefit from the implementation of
the integrated ecosystem management approach adopted by the project. This includes the
3



03/05/02
conservation of biodiversity hotspots, activities managed by the Biodiversity unit, and other
land improvement activities (such as rangeland management), as well as the support for
coordinated and sustainable development planning for the Governorate. As per the statements
of the policy, no significant conversion or degradation of natural habitats will result from the
small-scale project interventions and sub-projects.
OP 4.09 (Pest Management) OP 4.09 is not triggered since the MRMP II will not
support the procurement of pesticides or pesticide application equipment, nor will the project
affect pest management in a way that could cause harm. Interviews conducted with farmers
have revealed that no chemical pesticides/herbicides are being used to control pests, only
biological products. This is in line with the promoted image of products from the Matrouh
coastal area and the Siwa oasis as being organic products free of chemicals. In terms of
support for agricultural production, the second phase of the project will have a significantly
reduced focus on shrub plantation and agricultural production, with an estimated reduction of
about 90%. For the limited shrub and tree plantation activities, it will be ensured that no
chemicals will be used and that safe agricultural practices are promoted.
OP 4.12 (Involuntarv Resettlement) The project will undertake the identification
and declaration of two protected areas (PAs) in the project zone. These will be defined based
on their biodiversity significance, status of degradation and potentials for conservation and
altemative economic activities that can be built on the new conservation status (see selection
cireteria described under OP 4.04 above). The process will be undertaken with the full
participation of the local communities in the identification of the PAs and the design and
implementation of the PA management plans, as is the case in other similar established PAs in
Egypt. The issue of loss of income or means of livelihoods resulting from the loss of access to
resources following the declaration of protected areas under the project will be assessed based
on the definition of the exact boundaries following preparatory and consultation phases with
the stakeholders and local communities, which is expected to take two years. The team has
prepared a Process Framework in consultation with the NCS/EEAA outlining the steps and
participatory process by which the PA component will be prepared, the criteria by which
eligibility of vulnerable and affected persons will be determined, and the means to assist the
affected persons, if any, in their efforts to improve their livelihoods or at least restore them,
the potential conflict resolution mechanisms and the monitoring and follow-up arrangements.
4



03/05/02
II.   POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
A.    EGYPTIAN ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FRAMEWORK
Egypt continues to develop its national environmental policy, as evidenced by the
recent elaboration of its second National Environmental Action Plan (unavailable at the time
of the mission). From its earliest origins, Egyptian environmental policy has emphasised
environmental assessment and nature conservation as key principles underlying national
policy. The MRMP II will be govemed by these environmental policies.
Egypt's national environmental policy was probably first articulated in the National
Report oni Environment anid Development prepared for the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Compiled by a select group of
Egyptian scientists and experts on environment, the report grounded Egypt's environmental
policy in the fundamental principles for realising sustainable development within a framework
of sound environmental management (See Box 1). The report specifically identified
environmental assessment and nature conservation among the axes on which Egypt's
environmental policy is based.
Box I
National Environmental Policy
Egypt's environmental policy supports all programs for sustainable development that have
allowed for environmental considerations. This policy is based on five main axes to form an
integrated structure that seeks to achieve sound management of the environment and organise and
enhance the output of its renewable and non-renewable systems. These five axes are:
i - Sustainable Development: The policy is guided by the results of the environmental
feasibility studies on production and service projects, with special emphasis on the environmental
dimension to remedy any negative aspects of such projects, to provide the necessary allocations,
to firmly deal with any obstacles that may cause delay or prevent implementation, to rationalise
utilisation of natural resources in the interest of present and future generations and to have a more
scientific environmental concept in all development sectors which would achieve the balance
between economic and environmental conservation.
in - Nature Conservation: Egypt has been greatly concemed with the issue of sustaining
natural resources and conservation of environmental systems and maintaining their continued
output and productivity on land and in sea and fresh waters....
iv - Environmental Assessment: Egypt implements a policy compatible with the Egyptian
environment when assessing the environmental implications of any development projects,
especially in the fields of industry, urban planning, and tourism, with a view to attaining a
sustainable development founded on sound environmental criteria....
More recently, President Hosni Mubarak reaffirmed the role of environmental policy
in Egypt's national development planning in a speech given in March 1997 at the ceremony
launching the New Delta Project. Titled Egypt & the 21S' Cen1tury, the speech amounted to a
statement of Egypt's national development strategy. The hallmark of the speech's discussion
of environment is its commitment to sustainable development. "In all cases," Mubarak said,
5



03/05/02
"we are required at present and in future, to incorporate the environmental dimension into our
political, economic, and production plan. ... Thereby, a human and economic basis will be
established for sustained development, aspired to achieve a better life for Egyptian citizens."
In the speech, Mubarak committed the Government of Egypt to maintaining a "clean and
well-preserved environment," specifically identifying as priorities the conservation of
agricultural land, the protection of the Nile River and other fresh water resources from
pollution, and the expansion of natural protectorates in order to maintain environmental and
biological diversity.
The most recent statement of Egyptian environmental policy is contained in the
consultative document issued by the EEAA in December 1997, entitled "Towards an
Environmental Strategy for Egypt." The document represents another advance in the process
of integrating environmental considerations into strategic and physical planning in Egypt and
into decision-making on the allocation of Egypt's resources. The strategy document addresses
13 inter-related priority sectors, among them natural heritage, agriculture and land resources,
and marine and coastal zone management have the most relevance for the MRMP II. Sector
strategies for each of these prionty sectors identify recommended lines of action in terms of
institutional and regulatory measures, research and monitoring, market-based instruments,
participatory approaches, and technical solutions. These sector strategies will provide useful
guidance to the MRMP II in its activities addressing natural heritage, agriculture and land
resources, and coastal zone management.
B.    LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Over the last three decades, Egypt has adopted a substantial body of environmental
laws, decrees, and regulations addressing various aspects of environmental protection and
natural resources management. W7hile much remains to be done to refine and complete this
legal framework, the existing laws and regulations provide the Government of Egypt with
adequate legal authority to begin the sort of environmental planning, pollution prevention and
control, and natural resources management that the country needs.
The most recent and comprehensive of the environmental laws, Law No. 4 of 1994,
established the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Authority (EEAA), created the
Environmental Protection Fund to finance environmental management activities, and
addressed several significant legislative gaps in the legal framework for environmental
protection left by the earlier water pollution and waste management laws. Specifically, the
law provides the EEAA broad authority, among other things, to regulate air pollution, control
hazardous substance/waste management, and control discharges to marine waters.
Furthermore, the law gives the EEAA an array of tools for implementing and enforcing these
provisions, including traditional regulatory controls, economic instruments, environmental
impact assessment (ELA), and compliance monitoring, inspection and enforcement
authorities. The EEAA promulgated regulations (Executive Regulations, 1995) implementing
the air pollution, marine discharge, and EIA provisions of the law in 1995 (See Annex A).
With respect to management of natural resources, the designation and management of
natural protectorates is authorised by Law No. 102 of 1983, which is also administered by
the EEAA. Law No. 102 provides a comprehensive definition of natural protectorates
(including geological formations, wetlands, coral reefs, coastal areas, and mountain
ecosystems); authorises measures for their study, management and protection; and prohibits
certain activities, such as fishing, hunting, damaging living organisms or natural features,
6



03/05/02
polluting the soil, water, or air, etc., in such areas (See Annex A). To date, some 21 sites have
been designated natural protectorates.
Although Egypt does not have specific biodiversity legislation, it has signed a number
of important international conventions and agreements for the conservation of biological
resources, the African Convention on Consenration of Nature and Natural Resources (Algiers
1968); the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, especially as Waterfowl
Habitat (Ramsar 1971); the Convention on Intemational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES) (Washington, D.C. 1973); the Convention of the Conservation of
Migratory Species of Wild Animal (CMS)(Bonn 1983); the Convention on Biological
Diversity (Rio 1992); the Specially Protected Area Protocol of the Barcelona Agreement; and
the African-Eurasian Migratory Water Bird Agreement (AEWA) (The Hague 1995).
Egypt completed its National Study on Biological Diversity in 1996, followed by the
release of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) in 1998. The principal
strategic goal is the proper management and protection of natural resources and biodiversity.
Capacity building, improving awareness, and strengthening the private sector, NGOs, and
research institutes are all part of the strategy and action plan. Example initiatives include a
national arid lands management program, and the development of nature-based tourism. In
addition, the NBSAP establishes the conservation of medicinal plants as a priority. A new
five-year UNDP project entitled "Conservation and sustainable use of medicinal plants in arid
and semi-arid ecosystems" was prepared in 2000 and is now being implemented with a focus
on the Sinai.
C.    ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
Egypt is still in the process of establishing a comprehensive institutional framework
for environmental management Under the current framework, environmental management
responsibilities are shared by a wide array of Government institutions at the national (i.e., the
Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs, the EEAA, and a number of sector ministries,
agencies), regional (i.e., Regional Branch Offices of the EEAA, the regional directorates of a
number of sector ministries), and local (i.e., Environmental Management Units in each of
the 26 Governorates) levels of government. In addition, a number of supporting institutions,
such as scientific institutes, universities, and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), play a
role in environmental policy formulation and implementation.
At the national level, the Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs (MOSEA)
has the portfolio for environment in the Egyptian Cabinet of Ministers. Within the MOSEA,
the EEAA has the responsibility for setting national policy on environment and coordinating
environmental management activities within the Govemment. The EEAA's functions, as
established by Law No. 4 of 1994, include, among other things, preparing legislation,
decrees, and regulations as needed to protect the environment; conducting studies and
formulating the national plan for environmental protection; setting requirements for
environmental impact assessments (ELAs) of projects; monitoring compliance with
standards and norms and coordinating enforcement actions; managing natural
protectorates; and promoting environmental education (See Box 2).
As noted above, Law No.4 of 1994 provides the EEAA with authority to review
environmental impact assessments (ElAs) prepared for new (or expansions of existing)
projects. Under the process established by the law, the competent licensing authority, usually
7



03/05/02
a sector ministry, determines whether the proposed activity requires an assessment. Where an
assessment is required, the EEAA evaluates the assessment report and provides environmental
clearance for the proposed activity to the licensing authority. The EEAA has the authority to
monitor compliance with any conditions or standards imposed or environmental impact
mitigation measures required.
At the regional level, the EEAA is in the process of establishing Regional Branch
Offices (RBOs) throughout Egypt. As an extension of the EEAA, each RBO will be
responsible for collecting and analysing environmental information, preparing local
environmental action plans, administering and managing natural protectorates, operating
local monitoring stations, preparing afforestation programs, launching pilot projects,
disseminating EEAA guidelines for environmental protection, and screening EIAs. The
RBO will work closely with the Environmental Management Unit in each Govemorate to
ensure proper implementation and enforcement of EEAA policies and programs. A total of
eight RBOs have been planned throughout Egypt, in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, Middle Delta,
Eastern Delta, Canal Zone, Red Sea Govemorate; Upper Egypt-North Zone and Upper Egypt-
South Zone. To date, only the Greater Cairo, Alexandria, Middle and Eastern Delta, and
Canal Zone RBOs have been established and are in operation; the remaining three have yet to
be fully operationalised.
Box 2
Organisation of the EEAA
To carry out the functions specified in Law No. 4 of 1994, the EEAA has organized
itself into three technical sectors: Environmental Quality, Environmental Management, and
Nature Protection.
The Environmental Quality Sector is primarily responsible for setting policies, plans, and
programs for determining permussible standards related to water, air and land. The sector also
maintains a database of environmental information, available data, reports and research studies.
The Environmental Management Sector manages the national program for environmental
impact assessment (EIA). It supports the use of the latest technology in all its directorates for
Coastal and Marine Management, Hazardous Substances and Waste Management, and
Environmental Development.
The responsibilities of the Nature Protection Sector are divided into two main areas:
biodiversity and Natural Protectorate Management. The former includes the protection and
preservation of biodiversity in coordination with other responsible authorities and concerned
institutes; the latter is responsible mainly for the planning and management of natural
protectorates.
At the local level of government, each of the 26 Governorates has established an
Environmental Management Unit (EMU) pursuant to Law No.43 of 1979 on Local
Governance. The EMUs report administratively to and are financed by the Governorates,
while they look to the EEAA for technical support in their work. Under 1982 guidelines of the
Central Agency for Organisation and Administration, the EMUs are charged with
coordinating agencies within the Governorate on trans-boundary environmental problems,
reviewing environmental laws and policies, analysing local environmental problems and
proposing solutions to them, mobilising technical and financial resources to address
environmental problems, and promoting public awareness and grass-roots initiatives on
environmental protection. Under the existing institutional framework, these EMUs represent
the primary local authority on environmental issues and, in many cases, operate as the
executing agencies for the EEAA's environmental policies and programs.
8



03/05/02
III. SUMMARY OF GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION MEASURES
Good Practices. The MRMP II builds on the foundations established by MRMP I but
would place additional focus upon environmental management components, in line with the
objective of poverty alleviation vis-a-vis natural resource conservation/management. No
major negative environmental impacts are expected, indeed the environmental impacts
of the project are expected to be largely positive, especially in view of GEF funding for
incremental environmental benefits. However, a number of project activities require good
practices with respect to planning, design, implementation, maintenance, and/or monitoring,
to ensure potential negative environmental impacts are mitigated. Project activities undertaken
during MRMP II with associated good practises, are described in Table 1. These activities
could have potential environmental impacts resulting from improper design and/or
implementation.
Table 1. Good Practice Mitigation Measures
for Selected Sub-Activities and Sub-Projects
Sub-Activities
*   Range rehabilitation units  Planning
The location/spacing of"biodiversity islands" (range protected areas) should
be planned, and a map of proposed areas be developed, to incorporate
possible corridors (e g for wildlife), but also to maintain a connectivity
between the areas for habitat (such as habitat for pollinators).
Design
Fodder shrub plantations would be planted on 16 000 fd, primarily with
(80%) introduced species and 20% planted with native plant species A first
suggestion would be to make the ratio of exotic-native about equal (e.g
60/40 or 50/50) However, considering that replanting activities would
satisfy animal food needs in the shorter-term, while it is grazing
inanagenient and sustainable rangeland management that will reduce over-
grazing in the long-term, it is instead suggested to reduce the number of
fodder shrub plantations by at least 50% and increase the area of range
rehabilitation and management units by at least 5 times
Operation/Management
Minimum tillage should be practised, as excessive tillage promotes wind and
water erosion
Maintenance
Seedlings provided for range rehabilitation activities come in protective
plastic covering These coverings contribute to solid waste, especially as
they are left on the land and are not collected and properly disposed of. In
addition, wind blows the plastic, causing the plastic wraps to spread to
remote range areas, and animals eat the plastic This issue should be
mitigated through extension and training, but also through the use of used
newspaper instead of plastic
*   Nutrient management       Operation/Management
Nutrient management needs to be optimised. Silt captured from silt traps,
animal waste, and human excrement collected from latrines are rich in
nutrients, and should be used as organic fertiliser
*   Drinking water quality    Operation/Management
Water should be filtered, sterilised, and preferably boiled
9



03/05/02
Sub-Proi ects
*   Construction of community  Planning
centres                   Planning the location of community centres should be done through a
participatory approach, and addressed in Community Action Plans.
Construction
No guidelines for the construction of community centres are
available - the construction of these might have environmental
impacts associated with standard construction issues (for example disposal
of building rubble) Construction guidelines should be developed.
Operation/N anagement
Rubble should only be disposed of at appropriate disposal sites previously
agreed upon with the appropriate authorities (municipality)
*   Construction of latrines  Planning
The planning of where latrines would be located should be done through
community participation
Construction
The latrines envisaged for MRMP II are cesspits (or "pit latrines"), with no
connection to sewage networks They will be constructed under the
direct supervision of a civil engineer Latrines will be dug (hole/shaft) and
have a carrying capacity of about 5 cubic metres
Operation/Management
Pit latrines should be covered. to reduce unpleasant odours, and discourage
fly attraction
Latrines should be cleaned approximately once a year Latrines are cleaned
using traditional methods (shovels) Information must be made available to
beneficiaries as to the options for disposal of excrement Excrement should
be composted, but manure can also be used as organic fertiliser for
horticulture (e g fig trees)
Maintenance
Latrines must be kept clean, especially as mothers and children are most
susceptible to diseases associated with the use of latrines (e g parasitic
infections and diarrhoea diseases)
Awareness raising on the risks of unclean latrines should be provided,
especially to women.
*   Construction of cisterns  Construction
Existing construction guidelines developed under MRMP I will be consulted
The construction of cisterns must' (i) incorporate a silt trap, sediment basin
and sieve on the inlet side of the cistern to reduce the sediment load, (n)
separate cisterns for drinking water from those for animal and irrigation
purposes, (ii) avoid collecting water from the first rainfall as this carries the
highest level of pathogenic micro-organisms, and (Iv) boil all water for
drinking purposes
Operation/Management
Animals should be kept away from the cistern catchment area
Cisterns should be closed during the first 10-15 minutes of every rainfall
Sieves must be cleaned regularly after each rainfall Cisterns must be cleaned
approximately once every 2-3 years
10



03/05/02
Maintenance
Training must be provided at the local community level as to the long-term
maintenance of these structures
*   Rural roads               Planning
The prime consideration in defining rural road improvements should be
reliability and durability rather than speed and comfort. This would
lead to concentrating expenditure on surface drainage and essential
structures, on spot surface improvements in critical sections, on essential
access and rehabilitation of existing roads, and on routine maintenance,
rather than on geometric characteristics determined by design speeds
Roads already tracked are preferred, and paving these roads will decrease
incidence of off-road tracking
Design
Roads should be selected through a participatory approach, and interrupt
cross-drainage as little as possible Where the road interrupts, culverts and
siphons will be installed
Ensure that roads will not significantly impede the passage of wildlife
Road construction will ensure, to the degree possible, non-susceptibility to
erosion from floods by planting trees along the road to act as wind breaks
and soil fixators
Construction
Existing road construction guidelines must be followed (cut and fill
techniques will use rocks from land-clearing activities) Wherever possible,
spoil should be reused for backfill and reinstatement, or taken to a site for
such disposal Roads should attempt to balance quantities of "cut" and "fill"
Where the generation of excess spoil is unavoidable, it should be deposited
in layers and compacted to provide stability. It should be soiled and seeded
to prevent erosion and provided minimum visual impact.
Maintenance
Basic road maintenance works should be undertaken by members of the
community The Project should provide for training of labourers from the
communities and providing them with basic equipment to be able to
carry out simple patching maintenance works on their roads
Innovative and Additional Practices. The EA also identified a number of
"innovative" practices that, if undertaken, could further add to the positive outcomes of the
project Specifically, one innovation that should be further investigated by the MRMP II is
boiling water for drinking purposes. This activity would also be linked to identifying
alternative clean energy sources (in collaboration with the Egyptian Solar Energy Society'),
such as solar parabolic systems, for activities such as cooking, boiling water, etc.
An "additional" practice that should be investigated during MRMP II is the
construction of compost latrines. Compost latrine systems do exist, although they are not as
low-cost as pit latrines and involve slightly more complex construction. These systems are
IContact:
Dr.Mahmoud Shaban
Egyptian Solar Energy Society
Tel (202) 3452850
Fax (202) 5561236
E mail escsoiisoficom com eg
Mailing addresse P.O Box: 487 Dokki, Egypt



03/05/02
toilets that use little or no water and treat toilet wastes on-site for re-use as valuable compost.
They work by providing an enclosed environment for the natural process of aerobic
decomposition. There are many different designs of composting toilets, but all carry out this
basic process of aerobic decomposition. Design variations that enhance this process include:
*  air baffles for distribution of air into the pile
*  heating units to keep the compost at the best temperature
*  injected air for increased decomposition
*  mixing tongs to ensure full decomposition throughout the pile
*  the addition of composting womis and macro-organisms.
Another "additional" practice involves cistems and drinking water quality. Where
possible, separate cistems should be built for human and animal purposes, instead of cistems
that provide for both uses contemporaneously. Otherwise, animal drinking troughs should be
kept away from human-purpose cisterns, and hand pumps and hose supplied by the project
should be utilised to convey water to the animals at a distance of about 30 meters away.
Maintenance. Maintenance (which includes regular cleaning) is an issue that
needs to be addressed as a separate undertaking and should be incorporated into the training
activities of the project. In order to ensure the long-term project sustainability, it is necessary
to ensure that any work undertaken during project implementation can be carried out and even
replicated by beneficiaries after project closure. Beneficiaries, in this case, should know how
to maintain roads, earth works (dykes, cistems), latrines, and parabolic stoves, as well as
undertake basic repair works (e.g. for community centres).
Awareness Raising. Awareness raising is another issue that merits separate
emphasis. While maintenance activities will predominantly focus on men, awareness/
education would target women, especially with regard to environmental awareness in home
gardens, biodiversity and gathering of fuelwood, as well as health-related issues as they
pertain to drinking water, the cleanliness of latrines, and the dangers of smoke in closed
spaces associated with cooking.
12



03/05/02
IV. SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES
A.    OBJECTIVE OF THE SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES
The objective of the screening procedures is to review the small-scale infrastructure
sub-projects requested by the local communities and financed by the MRMP II with an eye to
identifying and addressing (minimising or eliminating) potential adverse environmental
impacts. Where potential impacts are minor, they can be addressed through the simple good
practice measures identified in this manual; more significant impacts may require review
under EIA guidelines (as explained below) and implementation of specifically identified
mitigation measures.
B.    SUB-PROJECTS SUBJECT TO SAFEGUARD SCREENING
PROCEDURES
The community development and capacity-building activities of the MRMP II are
expected to have positive environmental impacts. Other project activities, such as agricultural
production and range management, have environmental impacts that may be addressed
through the good practice measures and techniques identified in this manual.
However, the MRMP II also includes a number of sub-projects (yet to be specified)
involving the construction of small-scale infrastructure works that may have adverse
environmental impacts and thus will be subject to the safeguard screening procedures
described here. The types of sub-projects are identified in Table 2.
Table 2. MRMP II Sub-Projects Subject to Environmental Screening
MRMP II Component                       Anticipated Sub-Projects
A. Community Development
Capacity Building of Communities       community social centres
Strengthening Women's Capacity         latrines
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
Land and Water Resource Management     cistems/reservoirs, dykes
Rangeland Management
Biodiversity Conservation              visitors centres
C. Support for Income Generating Activities
Agricultural and Livestock Production
Off-Farm Income Generating Activities  agro-processing facilities
Marketing and Agro-Processing
D. Rural Roads                           asphalt feeder roads
C.    USE OF SUB-PROJECT SCREENING CHECKLISTS
Environmental screening will be incorporated into the regular project cycle for sub-
projects under the MRMP II, beginning with community identification of the sub-project in
the Community Action Plan (CAP), followed by review and approval by the technical staff in
the PCU, and ending with execution of the sub-project under the supervision of PCU
technical staff.
13



03/05/02
At the sub-project identification stage, a screening checklist will be completed by local
community representatives, with assistance from PCU technical staff as needed, in order to
identify potential environmental impacts, suggest appropriate good practice techniques, and
trigger (where necessary) further environmental review under EEAA EIA Guidelines.
D.    PCU REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The PCU will ensure that all sub-projects identified in Table 2 have properly
completed screening checklists before approving execution of a sub-project under the MRMP
II.
Where the screening checklist suggests the need for appropriate good practice or good
management techniques in location, design, construction or management of a sub-project, the
PCU will ensure that the appropriate good practice or good management material or training
is provided and that the practices or techniques are followed in execution of the sub-project.
Where the screening checklist triggers further environmental review under EEAA EIA
Guidelines (i.e., white list projects), the PCU will ensure that the appropriate EIA form is
completed and delivered to either EEAA or the Matruh Governorate EMU for review and that
execution of the sub-project awaits approval by the appropriate authorities. The PCU will
provide any additional information needed to facilitate the EEAA or Matruh EMU review.
E.     EEAA OR MATRUH EMU REVIEW AND APPROVAL
Under the EIA Guidelines, projects with potential negative environmental impacts
are classified into three colour-coded categories according to the severity of environmental
impacts:
* White list projects for those with minor environmental impacts
*  Grey list projects for those that may result in substantial environmental impacts
*  Black list projects for those that may require complete EIA due to potential severity of
impacts
The vast majority of MRMP II sub-projects (i.e., community social centres,
latrines, cisterns, and visitors' centres), because they are small in scale and minimal in impact,
are not expected to require formal EEAA review. The good practice or good management
techniques for location, design, construction, and management identified in this manual
should be used to address potential environmental impacts.
A few sub-projects (e.g., asphalt roads, dykes) may be white projects (to be
determined by EEAA) and thus require EEAA or Matruh EMIU review. For these sub-projects
the PCU will ensure that EEAA's Environmental Screening Form "A" is completed and
submitted to the EEAA Regional Branch Office in Alexandria or to the Matruh EMU.
No MRMP II sub-projects are expected to be grey list or black list projects (to be
determined by EEAA).
Under the EIA Guidelines, EEAA (or the Matruh EMU) has 60 days in which to
review and evaluate the sub-project submission and provide its opinions and proposals for
mitigation measures to ensure protection of the environment. EEAA (or the Matruh EMU)
14



03/05/02
then either approves the sub-project on the condition that its mitigation measures are followed
or requires compliance with grey or black list procedures because of the nature of the project.
F.    FIELD SUPERVISION
The PCU technical staff will monitor execution of all MRMP II sub-projects to
ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated, i.e., that good practice or good
management techniques are employed or that EEAA-required mitigation measures are taken.
G.    SUB-PROJECT EXECUTION AND MONITORING
Once a sub-project has been completed, PCU technical staff will certify that good
practice or good management techniques have been utilised or that any required mitigation
measures have been completed. The PCU's M&E Unit also will monitor compliance with
environmental requirements and include the results in regular project reports.
15



03/05/02
V.    ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND CAPACITY PROGRAM
In order to ensure proper implementation of environmental screening and
mitigation measures, as well as effective watershed and range management, biodiversity
conservation, and protected area preparation and management, the MRMP II will undertake
an intensive program of environmental training and institutional capacity building.
A.    ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING FOR PCU/EEAA/EMU STAFF AND
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
The MRMP II will provide a host of national and international experts to deliver a
range of technical training on environmental issues to PCU management and staff, EEAA
field staff, and Matruh EMU personnel. The objective of this training is to build the capacity
in these institutions for implementation of the integrated ecosystem management approaches
supported by the project.
At a minimum, the training will cover environmental awareness; national policy
and regulations; range resource inventory and evaluation methods; carbon sequestration and
biomass inventory techniques; socio-economic surveying; species monitoring and evaluation;
protected areas management; cross-sectoral ecosystem planning and management; and other
participatory training on specific environmental issues as identified over the life of the
project. This program also will include training trainers for extension services to the
communities and providing refresher courses from time to time in all of the topics identified.
As part of the community development component, the MRMP II also will
provide basic (less technical) training to local community representatives and interested
members of the project communities. The objective of this training is to raise the level of
environmental awareness in the communities and to begin to build interest and capacity in
integrated environmental management and protection of community resources. Ultimately, the
training will build support for the environmental screening and impact assessment process,
which originates at the community level.
To strengthen development capacity specifically among women in the
communities, the MRMP II will promote environmental awareness programs to assist women
to participate effectively in sustainable utilisation and management of the natural resource
base. At a minimum, this will include drinking water quality management, improved
stove/cooking techniques, fuel and fuelwood consumption, and human/domestic waste
management practices. Other areas where training will be provided, in accordance with
environmental good practices, include: (i) operation and maintenance of cisterns (opening and
closing, as well as cleaning sieves and re-use of silt as nutrient); (ii) rural road repair and
maintenance; (iii) composting solid waste from latrines and using the product as natural
fertiliser; and (iv) appropriate disposal of plastic seedling wrappings.
The GEF activities will promote formnal and inforrnal environmental education,
including the design of curricula and preparation of educational materials, in the schools and
at the community centres in the project area. Courses and materials in environmental
awareness and resource management, designed for students of all ages, will draw on the best
experiences in Egypt and in the Middle East region in environmental education. A summary
of the environmental training program provided by the MRMP II is shown in Table 3.
16



03/05/02
Table 3. Proposed Environmental Training Program
Intended            Training Content               Format         Input    Preparation   Frequency    Funding
Audience                                                                       Time                    Source
PCU              Environmiental awareness        Half-day seminar      0 5      2 0 days      annually   WB/1FAD
Management and   (policy, regulations)                                days
Technical Staff
Environmental screeming, impact  One-day workshop     1 0      3 0 days      annually   WB/IFAD
analysis                                             days
Overview of good practices and  One-day workshop      1 0      2 0 days      annually   WB/IFAD
mitigation measures                                  days
Specific good practices/        One-day workshop      1 0      3.0 days      annually   WB/IFAD
mitigation measures (water      (per topic)          days                                 GEF
harvesting, range management,
sub-projects)
Cross-sectoral ecosystem planning  Two-day workshop   2 0      3 0 days      annually      GEF
and management                                       days
PCU E&M Unit     Environmental monitoring        One-day workshop      I 0      3 0 days      annually   WB/IFAD
practices                                            days                                  GEF
EEAA/NCS         Cross-sectoral ecosystem planning  Two-day workshop   2.0      3 0 days      annually      GEF
Field Staff      and management                                       days
Biodiversity conservation       Two-day seminar/      2.0      5.0 days     annually      GEF
techniques                      workshop             days
Protected areas design and      Two-day seminar/      2 0      5 0 days      ad hoc       GEF
management                      workshop             days
GEF benefits monitonng and      One & a half-day      1 5      3 0 days      annually     GEF
evaluation                     seminar              days
EMU Staff        Environmental awareness         Half-day seminar      0.5      2.0 days      annually      GEF
days
Environmental screening, impact  Full-day workshop    1 0      2 5 days     annually      GEF
analysis                                             days
Good practices and mitigation   Full-day workshop     1 0      3 0 days      annually     GEF
measures                                             days
Environmental monitoring        Full-day workshop     1 0      3 0 days      annually     GEF
practices                                            days
Land-use planning, coastal zone  Two-day workshop     2 0      5 0 days      ad hoc       GEF
nmanagement                                          days
Community        Environmental awareness         Half-day seminar      0 5       3 0 days     annually   WB/IFAD
Leaders,                                                              days
Interested       Environmental management,       Full-day workshop     1 0      3 0 days       semi-     WB/IFAD
Community        screening. impact analysis                           days                    annually
Members
Good practices and mitigation   Full-day workshop     1 0      3 0 days       semi-     WB/IFAD
measures                                             days                    annually
Community        Environmental awareness         Full-day seminar      1 0       3 0 days      semi-     WB/IFAD
Women                                                                 days                    annually
Community/household resource    Full-day workshop     1 0      4.0 days       semi-     WB/IFAD
management (water, fuel, waste  (per topic)          days                    annually     GEF
practices, biodiversity home
gardens)                                                                           .   .
Community        Environmental awareness,        Teaching materials,   on-     2 0 months    on-going    WB/IFAD
Students         management                      courses              going
17



03/05/02
B.    CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PCU, EEAA/INCS, AND MATRUH
GOVERNORATE EMU
The MRMP II also will build environmental management capacity within the
PCU by establishing a new Natural Resource Management Department comprising units for
Land and Watershed Management, Range Management, and Biodiversity Conservation. The
objective of this new department is to mainstream environmental management good practices
in the operational components of the project.
The new Biodiversity Conservation Unit will be built around three staff seconded
from the Nature Conservation Sector of EEAA (and partially financed by the project) to work
with the PCU for the life of the project. These EEAA field staff will be responsible for
implementing the activities related to protected areas management, including background
analyses and design of the two proposed protected areas, species conservation, community
participation in conservation, and training in protected areas management. Vehicles and
equipment also will be provided in order to support the implementation of the new activities
related to biodiversity conservation under the project.
In addition, the MRMP II will provide the Matruh Govemorate's EMUL with two
part-time environmental experts, i.e., an environmental impact assessment expert and an
environmental monitoring expert, for the five-year life of the project. These experts will work
closely with project staff to provide training in environmental screening and impact
assessment, integrated environmental and resource management planning, and environmental
monitoring and evaluation. They will train trainers and assist with course compilation of
training material for the project.
As needed by the Matruh Governorate, these experts will also perform duties
outside the project area in matters outside the project mandate regarding development and
compliance with environmental laws in urban areas and in coastal tourism centres. This
support for better planning and development along the coast of Matruh Governorate should
help relieve some of the development pressures and adverse environmental impacts on the
project area and the two proposed natural protected areas.
18



03/05/02
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
The PCU's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E Unit) performs regular
monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The M&E Unit will also be responsible for a
number of environmental monitoring activities and will build its capacity, along with support
from the new Natural Resource Management Department, to perform specific environmental
monitoring and evaluation functions for the project.
A.    MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION MEASURES
The M&E Unit routinely monitors implementation of MRMP II sub-projects (i.e.,
tracking identification, approval, and execution) and is also responsible for monitoring
compliance with environmental screening requirements and implementation of any mitigation
measures for sub-projects required, either by EEAA or the Matruh EMU, as a result of
environmental screening.
This monitoring will entail reviewing environmental checklists for all sub-projects
approved and periodically making site visits to verify that good practices and/or mitigation
measures have been implemented. The M&E Unit also will conduct random evaluations of a
sample of sub-projects to determine the effectiveness of the environmental screening
procedures and impacts of sub-projects on the surrounding environment.
Furthermore, the M&E Unit will periodically monitor a set of specified indicators
of environmental and environmental health impacts of the MRMP II. These indicators will
include drinking water quality from cisterns and reservoirs, incidence of water-borne diseases
in the project communities, measures of terrestrial biodiversity, and measures of rangeland
regenerative capacity. Additional indicators will be developed and incorporated into the
monitoring program over the life of the project.
This environmental monitoring will be incorporated into the overall MRMP II
monitoring plan required by the World Bank as part of project performance. The results of
such monitoring will be recorded and maintained by the PCU throughout the life of the
project. The PCU will report the results of its environmental monitoring in the bi-annual
progress reports it submits to the Bank. Bank supervision missions will review the results of
the monitoring program on a regular basis.
B.    MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
In the context of the GEF program, the M&E Unit will perform very specific
monitoring of environmental data, based on verifiable indicators, to monitor and evaluate
progress in achieving and sustaining expected global environmental benefits. Proposed
performance indicators for this GEF-specific monitoring are shown in Table 4.
The Natural Resource Management Department, through its technical units,
undertakes specialised studies, surveys or research efforts and will be responsible for
monitoring the results and evaluating the impacts. For example, under the GEF component,
the Biodiversity Conservation Unit will test the regenerative capacity of rangeland plants
under various management regimes in order to assist in estimating the carrying capacity of the
rangelands. Environmental monitoring of this sort will be used to evaluate and support the
19



03/05/02
biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem management approaches promoted by the
project.
Table 4. GEF Monitoring Program Indicators
GEF Component Global Benefits                         Performance Indicators
Community Development                            Lead indicators
- awareness of global environmental issues     - knowledge of environmental issues
- community species conservation               - number of community conservation areas
- natural habitat protection                   - number of natural habitat corridors
- seed collection                              - number of collectors/seeds collected
- medicinal plant protection                   - number of medicinal plants cultivated
Optional indicators
- number/area of identified biodiversity hotspots
- number of indigenous species conserved in
biodiversity hotspots (over time)
- number of native trees planted as shelterbelts along
roads and around fields
- number of beneficiaries involved in energy
consumption/kitchen practices surveys
- number of beneficiaries undertaking appropriate
kitchen practices
- number of beneficiaries using solar-powered stoves
Land and Water Conservation Development          Lead indicators.
- increased biomass, carbon sequestration      - estimates of biomass, sequestered carbon
- enhanced endemic species development         - estimates of endemic species generation
Range Management                                 Lead indicators
- conservation of range plant species          - estimates of range plant species regeneration
- increased carbon sequestration               - estimates of carbon sequestration in range vegetation
Optional indicators
- number of seedlings planted
Biodiversity Conservation (Protected Areas)      Lead indicators
- conservation of endangered flora and fauna   - estimates of increases in indigenous flora and fauna
- unique natural habitat protection            - area of protected natural habitat
- increased carbon sequestration               - estimates of carbon sequestration in protected areas
- conservation of germplasm                    - quantity of germplasm conserved
Optional indicators.
- community acceptance/compliance with regulations
regarding access to Pas
- estimated increase of biomass
Agricultural and Livestock Production            Lead indicators
- conservation of agro-biodiversity            - estimates of species in agro-ecosystem
- reduced green house gas emissions            - estimates of green house gas emissions
- use of indigenous species in agriculture     - ratio of indigenous/introduced species used
Marketing and Agro-Processing                    Lead indicators
- development of herbal/medicinal plant products  - quantity of herbal/medicinal plant products produced
for export                                       and exported
Optional indicators
- diversity of native herbal/medicinal plants planted
20



03/05/02
C.     MONITORING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EMP
In addition to the monitoring of environmental screening and implementation of
mitigation measures described above, the PCU will monitor its own implementation of the
EMP and report the results to the Bank. The objective of this monitoring is to ensure that
overall implementation of the various components of the EMP (i.e., mitigation measures, sub-
project screening, training and capacity building, and environmental monitoring) is following
the proposed schedule and that the PCU is tracking the environmental impacts of the project
in order to be able to make any mid-course corrections necessary to ensure sound
environmental management in the project area. Table 5 displays the proposed performnance
indicators for this monitoring.
Table 5. Monitoring Implementation of the EMP
Major EMP Activities                          Performance Indicators
Environmental Mitigation Measures
-- Main mitigation measures (drinking water quality in -- Drinking water quality in cistems and reservoirs
MRMP 11 communities)                           -- Incidence of water-borne diseases in MRMP 11
communities
-- Environmental screening of sub-projects     -- Percentage of sub-projects with completed
checklists
-- Percentage of sub-projects complying with good
practices/mitigation measures
Training and Capacity Building               __     __         _
-- Environmental training                      -- Number of training sessions/beneficiaries trained
-- EEAA/NCS seconded staff                     -- Number of seconded staff/months of service in
MRMP 11
-- EMU environmental experts                   -- Number of experts hired/months of service in
MRMP ll
Environmental Monitoring Program
-- Environmental screening                     -- Percentage of sub-project checklists
.____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ __ _   review ed/verified
-- Number of mitigation measure impact studies
completed
-- Environmental quality monitoring            -- Number of baseline indicators established and
monitored
21



03/05/02
ANNEXES
A.  EXTRACTS FROM MOST RELEVANT LEGISLATION AND
REGULATIONS
B.  ENVIRONMENTAL SUB-PROJECT SCREENING CHECKLISTS
22



03/05/02
ANNEX A:
EXTRACTS FROM MOST RELEVANT LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW NO. 4/1994
PART ONE
PROTECTION OF LAND ENVIRONMENT
FROM POLLUTION
CHAPTER ONE
DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
Article 19:
The competent administrative authority or the licensing authority shall assess the
environmental impact of the establishment for which a license is sought by reference to the
elements, designs, specifications and criteria issued by the EEAA in agreement with the
competent administrative authorities. The executive regulations of the Law shall determine
the establishments to which the provisions of this article apply.
Article 20:
The competent administrative authorities or the licensing authority shall send a copy of the
environmental impact assessment mentioned in the preceding Article to the EEAA, to express
its opinion thereon and propose measures required to be taken in the field of preparations and
systems in order to treat negative environmental effects. The said authorities shall verify the
implementation of the EEAA's proposals. The EEAA is required to furnish the competent
administrative authority or the licensing authority with its opinion on the assessment within a
maximum of 60 days from receiving same, otherwise the assessment shall be deemed to have
been accepted by the EEAA.
Article 21:
The competent administrative authority shall notify the owner of the establishment of the
result of the assessment by a registered letter with return receipt requested. The owner of the
establishment may object to the result in writing within thirty days of notification before a
committee to be formed by a decree of the Minister in charge of Environmental Affairs. The
EEAA, the competent administrative authority or the licensing authority and the owner of the
establishment shall be represented on the committee. The executive regulations shall
determine the functions of the committee as well as its operating and complaint procedures.
Article 22:
Pursuant to the provisions of this Law, the owner of an establishment shall keep a written
register to record the impact of his establishment activities on the environment. The executive
regulations will determine the standard form of the required register, the time frame of the
23



03/05/02
establishment obligation to keep it and the data to be entered therein. The EEAA is authorized
to follow up entries in the register to ensure that they conform to the facts, to take samples as
required and to conduct appropriate tests to determine the impact of the establishment
activities on the environment and the extent of its compliance with the criteria laid down for
the protection of the environment. In case of any violation, the EEAA shall notify the
competent administrative authority to direct the owner of the establishment to rectify such
violation forthwith. If the owner fails to comply within 60 days, the EEAA shall be entitled,
in agreement with the competent administrative authority, to take such legal and judicial
procedures as are necessary to stop the offending activity and claim adequate damages to
redress the harm resulting from the violation.
Article 23:
Expansions and renovations of existing establishments shall be subject to the same provisions
set forth in Articles 19, 20, 21 and 22 of this Law.
Article 24:
Environmental monitoring networks with their stations and working units shall be formed,
pursuant to the provisions of this Law, and shall undertake, in their respective fields of
specialization, to monitor the components and pollutants of the environment on a regular basis
and make the results available to the authorities concerned. For the fulfillment of the
foregoing, the networks may call on the assistance of research centres and competent
authorities which shall furnish the networks with the studies and information they request.
The Agency shall supervise the establishment and operation of the environmental monitoring
networks.
EXECUTIVE REGULATIONS (1995)
PART ONE
PROTECTING LAND ENVIRONMENT FROM POLLUTION
Chapter I
Development and the Environment
Article (10)
The competent administrative body or the licensing authority shall assess the environmental
impact of the establishment applying for a license in accordance with the elements, designs,
specifications and conditions issued by the EEAA in agreement with the competent
administrative body. The EEAA shall revise its assessment whenever necessary.
Article (1 1)
The provisions of Article (10) of these Executive Regulations shall apply to the
establishments listed in Annex (2) of these Executive Regulations.
Article (12)
24



03/05/02
The applicant for a license shall be held to attach to the application a detailed description of
the establishment containing the data included in the model form prepared by the EEAA in
agreement with the competent administrative body. The EEAA shall prepare a register
comprising copies of this model form and the assessment results, as well as the requests made
by the EEAA to the owner of the establishment.
Article (13)
The EEAA may resort to any experts whose names are included in a list to be issued by the
EEAA in accordance with the criteria set by the EEAA Board of Directors, in order to get
their opinion on the assessment of the environmental impact of the establishment intended to
be constructed and for which a license is being sought.
Article (14)
The competent administrative body shall notify the establishment owner of the assessment
result by registered letter with return receipt requested. The owner is entitled to object to such
result in writing within a period of thirty days from the date of his notification before the
Permanent Review Committee to be formed by a decree of the Minister for Environmental
Affairs. The said Committee shall be chaired by a counselor from the Council of State and
shall include the following members:
-     A representative from the EEAA nominated by its CEO.
-     The owner of the or whoever represents him by virtue of an official power of attomey.
-     A representative of the competent body or of the licensing authority when it is not the
competent body.
-     Three experts to be selected as members of the Committee for a term of three years on
the basis of their nomination by the Agency CEO.
The Committee may form sub-committees from among its members and others to study the
objections referred to them and present reports thereon to the Committee. In performing its
tasks, the Committee may solicit assistance from any quarter at its discretion, and shall be
held to issue its decision within sixty days from the date of receiving the completed objection
documents.
Article (15)
The Permanent Review Committee referred to in Article (14) above shall be competent to
look into the objections submitted or referred to it in connection with assessment results or
with the proposals which the EEAA requires to be executed, and shall formulate its opinion
on such objections by reference to the standards prescribed in Article (10) of these Executive
Regulations. Objections shall be submitted in writing to the EEAA and shall include the
reasons for the objection and the legal and scientific grounds on which the project owner
substantiates his objection. The latter shall also attach thereto such documents as it deems
necessary to support the reasons for his objection.
25



03/05/02
Article (16)
The Committee shall convene at the invitation of the Agency CEO within fifteen days from
the date the Agency receives the written objection. A representative from the Agency,
delegated by the CEO, shall take minutes of the meeting without having a counted vote in the
discussions. The Committee decision shall be issued by a simple majority of votes, and the
minutes shall be signed by all attending members.
Article (17)
The establishment owner shall, pursuant to the provisions of these Executive Regulations,
keep a register indicating the environmental impact of the establishment activities in which
the following data shall be recorded:
-     Emissions put out thereby or discharged therefrom.
-     Specifications of discharges after the treatment process, and the efficiency of the
treatment units used.
-     Follow-up and environmental safety procedures applied in the establishment.
-     Periodical tests and measures and their results.
-     The name of the person in charge of follow-up.
The said register shall be prepared in accordance with the model form shown in Annex (3)
hereto.
The establishment owner or his representative shall be held to notify the EEAA immediately,
by means of registered letter with return receipt requested, of any deviation in the criteria and
specifications of emitted or discharged pollutants and the procedures taken to rectify such
deviations.
Article (I 8)
The EEAA shall be competent to follow-up the data recorded in the register to ascertain its
conformity with the facts, as well as to take the necessary samples and conduct the
appropriate tests to determine the environmental impact of the establishment activity and the
extent of its adherence to the criteria laid down for the protection of the environment.
Such follow-up shall be regularly conducted every year and a report thereon deposited with
the competent department in the EEAA. The report shall be signed by the officer in charge of
follow-up and tests and shall indicate the date on which the follow-up was conducted. If any
violations are discovered, the EEAA shall notify the competent administrative body which
shall instruct the establishment owner, by means of a registered letter with return receipt
requested, to rectify such violations forthwith in accordance with the proper rules of trade. If
he fails to do so within 60 days, the CEO, in co-ordination with the competent administrative
body, shall be entitled to take the following procedures:
26



03/05/02
1.    Close down the establishment.
2.    Suspend the contravening activity.
3.    Claim adequate compensation through the courts to remedy the damage resulting from
the violation.
Establishments shall permanently keep the registers duly completed according to the model
form referred to in Article (17) hereof, . When entries are updated, the establishment shall be
held to maintain the register for a period of ten years calculated from the date of the EEAA
representative's signature thereon attesting to its review.
Article (19)
Expansions or renovations of an existing establishment are subject to the same provisions
prescribed in Articles (19), (20), (21) and (22) of the Environment Law.
Any change in the production patterns of the operating machines or increase in the size of the
manpower beyond the capacity of the work place or any essential modifications to the
establishment buildings, particularly those related to the ventilation system or the relocation
of the work premises or other similar modifications which may have a harmful effect on the
environment or on the employees of the establishment, are considered expansions and
renovations.
27



03/05/02
LAW NO. 102/1983 CONCERNING NATURAL PROTECTED AREAS
Article 1
In implementing the provisions of this law, a Natural Protected Area is defined as any area of
land, coastal or inland waters distinguished by what it contains of living organisms, plants,
animals, fishes, or natural features of cultural, scientific, touristic or aesthetic value; which is
delineated by a Prime Ministerial Decree issued upon a proposal from the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency of the Cabinet of Ministers.
Article 2
It is forbidden to undertake actions, activities or procedures; which would lead to the
destruction, damage or degrade the natural environment; or harm terrestrial, marine or plant
life; or detract from its aesthetic quality in a Protected Area.
It is specifically prohibited to undertake the following:
- Hunting, transporting, killing or disturbing living terrestrial and marine organisms, or
carrying out activities, which lead to their extermination.
- Hunting, removing or transporting any living organisms or organic material such as shells,
corals, rocks or soil for any purpose.
- Damaging or transporting plants found in a Protected Area.
- Damaging or destroying geographic or geologic formations, or areas considered as habitats
for animals and plants, or for their reproduction.
- Introducing foreign species into Protected Areas.
- Polluting the soil, water or air of a Protected Areas in any manner.
It is also prohibited to erect buildings or structures, or to construct roads, or operate vehicles,
or practice any agricultural, industrial or commercial activities in a Protected Area; without
the permission of the concemed administrative body, according to conditions, rules and
procedures to be specified by a Pnme Ministerial Decree
Article 3
It is forbidden to practice any activities or under take actions or experiments in areas
surrounding a Protected Area, which are delineated in a decree by the concerned Minister,
upon a proposal from the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency of the Cabinet of
Ministers, which would affect the environment of a Protected Area or the natural processes in
it, without the pernission of the concerned administrative body.
Article 4
The administrative body, to be specified by a Prime Ministerial Decree, is mandated to
implement the provisions of this law and its executive decrees, with the objective of
conserving Protected Areas and protecting them. The mentioned body is empowered to
establish branches in Governorates where Protected Areas are located. These would be
concerned with the following:
- Preparing programs and studies necessary for the development of the Natural Protected
Area.
- Monitoring environmental phenomena, surveying the terrestrial and marine organisms in the
Protected Area and establishing an archive for each Protected Area.
- Managing and coordinating activities related to the Protected Area.
28



03/05/02
- Informing and educating the public about the objectives and purposes of establishing
Protected Areas.
- Exchanging informnation and experiences with countries and intemational organisations in
this field.
- Managing the moneys of the fund referred to in the sixth article.
Article 5
Legally declared societies concemed with environmental protection are permitted to seek the
concerned administrative and judicial bodies for the implementation of the provisions of the
laws and decrees concerning to the protection of Protected Areas.
Article 6
A special fund is to be established to receive moneys, grants, donations to the Protected Areas
and entrance fees, if any; as well as, the revenue from any fines collected as a result of the
implementation of the provisions of this law. All these funds will be assigned for the
following purposes.
- Subsidising the budget of the bodies implementing the provisions of this law.
- Contributing to the improvement of the environment in Protected Areas.
- Conducting the studies and surveys necessary in this field.
- Monetary rewards for those informing about and apprehending violators of the provisions of
the law.
Article 7
Unless, otherwise a stronger penalty is specified by another law, any person violating the
provisions of the second and third articles of this law and its executive decrees, is subject to a
fine of no less that LE 500 and not more than LE 5,000, and or imprisonment for a duration of
not more than one year. Recurrent offenders will be fined no less than LE 3,000 and not more
than LE 10,000, and or a prison term of not less than one year. In addition, offenders will bear
any cost incurred for the removal or reparations determined by the concerned administrative
body or its branches in the Governorates, and equipment or tools used in the violation will be
confiscated.
Article 8
Fines and removal costs are collected through administrative means and instantly.
Article 9
The employees of the concerned administrative body responsible for the implementation of
the provisions of this law and its executive decrees, which are designated by a decree from the
Minister of Justice, in agreement with the concerned Minister, will have law enforcement
powers concerning crimes listed in this law.
Article 10
All legislation contradicting the provisions of this law are hereby cancelled.
Article 11
This law is to be published in the official journal, and will be enacted three month after its
publication date.
To be stamped by the state stamp, and implemented as one of its laws.
Issued at the Presidency on 21 Shawal 1403 (31 July 1983).
29



03/05/02
ANNEX B:
ENVIRONMENTAL SUB-PROJECT SCREENING CHECKLISTS
The following checklist is to be used for those sub-projects identified in Part IV.
SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES.
General questions asked for each sub-project:
QUESTIONS                                 YES       NO
(i) Is the sub-project within the scope of the MRMP II?
If yes, proceed with checklist.
If no, check with PCU technical staff before proceeding with screening.
(ii) Is the sub-project included in the CAP?
If yes, proceed with checklist.
If no, check with PCU technical staff before proceeding with screening.
(iil) Does the CAP describe the sub-project in enough detail (e.g. location
and design of structures, type of construction, etc.) to address
environmental concerns, to avoid future conflict?
(iv) Are maintenance and minor repair work undertaken, when and where
appropriate?
(v) Is training for maintenance and minor repair work accounted for?
Specific Questions:
A. Community Centres
QUESTIONS                                 YES       NO
1. Will it be built under the direct supervision of a qualified engineer?
2. Will it be built following the basic architectural plans of the community
centres built during MRMP I?
3. Will building material used be of good (durable) quality?
4. Will building materials be locally purchased?
5. During construction, will waste be disposed of as per govemorate/
municipal regulation in appropriate locations?
6. Will training be made available for community members interested
participating in the construction, also for basic future maintenance and
repair works?
30



03/05/02
B. Latrines
QUESTIONS                                YES       NO
1. Will digging and construction works be carried out under the direct
supervision of a qualified civil engineer?                              .
2. Will appropriate latrine location/design/construction practices be
followed?
3. Will latrine be located to accommodate community members, as set out
in the CAPs (location, spacing, distance from homes)?
4. Will training be made available for maintenance and basic repairs?
5. Will training be made available for cleaning and basic hygiene?
6. Will training be made available for the appropriate utilisation of wastes
(composting options, use as natural fertiliser)?
C. Cisterns/Reservoirs/Dykes
QUESTIONS                                YES       NO
1. Will water harvesting structures be consistent with watershed
management planning and range management plans?
2. Will they be built following previously defined guidelines developed
during MRMP I?
3. Will cisterns incorporate a silt trap, sediment basin and sieve on the
inlet side?
4. Will separate cistems be built for human use and for animal use?
D. Visitor Centres
QUESTIONS                                YES       NO
1. Will the centre be built under the direct supervision of a qualified
engineer?
2. Will it be built in line with the design of the Protected Area, and in line
with the Protected Area Management plan?
3. Will it be located in/near an environmentally highly sensitive area?
4. Will building material used be of good (durable) quality?
5. Will building materials be locally purchased?                   .
6. During construction, will waste be disposed of as per
govemorate/municipal direction in appropriate locations?
7. Will training be made available for community members interested in
participating in the construction, also for basic future maintenance and
repair works?
8. Will waste generated by visitors be properly disposed of (i.e., not
within the boundaries of the PA)?
31



03/05/02
E. Asphalt Feeder Roads
QUESTIONS                                 YES       NO
1. Has EEAA Environmental Screening Form A been completed?
2. Has EEAA Environmental Screening Form A been submitted to EEAA
RBO or Matrouh EMU for review?
3. Will roads be built on existing tracked roads?
4. Will road be constructed with least cross-drainage possible?
5. Will siphons and culverts be built if and where appropnate?
6. Will appropriate cut and fill techniques use rocks from land-clearing
activities?
7. Where applicable, will spoil be reused for backfill and reinstatement or
taken to a site for appropriate disposal?
8. Where the generation of excess spoil is unavoidable, will it be
deposited in layers and compacted to provide stability, and will it be
soiled and seeded to prevent erosion and provide minimum visual impact?
9. Will construction be undertaken by qualified contractors?
10. Will project beneficiaries participate in construction?
11. Will local beneficiaries be trained in basic road repair?
12. Will shelterbelts be planted along side the new roads?
13. Will appropriate signage be erected (e.g. directions, speed limit), if
and where appropriate?
WB 16053
P \'UNITS\MNSRE\SOLIMAN\Egypt\MATRUH II\ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES MANUAL (EGM) June9 doc
June 12, 2002 12 01 PM
32



20/04/02
Table 1: EMP Implementation Schedule
Major EMP Activities       lstQ  2nQ  3FQ   4'Q  IStQ   2'Q  3rQ   4tQ  ]"1Q  2nQ   3rQ   4tQ
'03   '03  '03   '03   '04   '04  '04   '04   '05  '05   '05   '05
Environmental Mitigation
Measures___                                                                               _
--Env Guidelines Manual    ___
--Main Mitigation Measures  __ 
-- Environmental Screening ____
Training and Capacity
Program
-- Environmental Training
-- PCU management/staff
-- Matruh EMU
-- Communities
-- EEAA/NCS seconded staff          _                               ___
-- EMU environment experts  _     ____
Environmental Monitoring
Program
-- Environmental Screening
-- Mitigation Measure Impacts  I__                       _
-- Baseline Changes                        I     I    I     I                        _-
C. ESTIMATED IMPLEMENTATION COSTS
The estimated costs of implementing the various components of this EMP are
displayed in Table 2. These costs are included in the total costs of the MRMP II and are
financed with funds from the World Bank/IFAD loan or from the GEF grant. No additional
costs are envisaged as a result of the EMP.
Table 2: Estimated Costs per EMP Component
EMP Activity (MRMP if        Quantity   Unit Rate    Costs    in     US$       Source
Component)                           US$                            .
Local   Foreign   Total
Consultants & Training (national/
intemational)
- community capacity building (A)  12 MM     300/MM     50,000   53,600   103,600  WB/IFAD
- watershed/rangeland management (B)                                               WB/IFAD
- biodiversity conservation (B)                                                       GEF
EEAA/NCS staff (3 nat) seconded to
PCU for 5 years (B)                180 MM    850/MM     153,000     0     153,000     GEF
Environmental experts (2 national) for
Matruh EMU for 5 years (part-time)  60 MM   2,000/MM    120,000     0     120,000    GEF
(B)                                                             I
Vehicles (B)                         2        20,000             40,000    40,000    GEF
Office equipment (computers, printers,
etc ) (B)                           Lump      20,000              20,000   20,000     GEF
sum    I          I
TOTAL                                                    TBD      TBD      TBD__      _   _
WBI6053
P \'UNITS\MNSRE\SOLIMAN\Egypt\MATRUH II\ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP) (June9) doc
June 12, 2002 12 02 PM
8



