Report No. 23499
Report No: I074075 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/09/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF         Project ID: P074075
Project: Egypt Second Matruh Resource Management Project     Task Team Leader:
Marie-Helene Collion
Appraisal Date: February 15, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 15.00
Board Date: December 12, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSRE     Sector: MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overarching objective of Matrouh Resource Management Project II (MRMP
II) would be to improve the welfare of the more disadvantaged rural people
and contribute to poverty alleviation through community development and
strengthening the local communities' capacity to conserve, rehabilitate
and use their natural resources in a sustainable manner. This would be
achieved by: (a) assisting communities, including women and the poor, to
organize themselves to participate in community-based planning and
implementation of development activities; (b) assisting communities to
conserve, rehabilitate and sustainably use and manage the natural resource
base through developing appropriate community-based institutional
mechanisms; (c) improving smallholder sustainable agricultural and
livestock production and promoting demand-driven non-farm income
generating activities, mainly targeting women; and, (d) providing improved
access to technical, financial and commercial services and market
linkages. Within the framework of integrated ecosystem management, in
addition to watershed and range management, the project will address
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and measure
carbon sequestration under different land uses, with the support of a GEF
grant.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed MRMP II will comprise the following components and
sub-components to be implemented over five years:
A.   Community Development
n Capacity Building of Communities
n Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity
B.   Integrated Natural Resource Management
n Water Harvesting and Watershed Management
n Range Management
n Bio-diversity Conservation and Carbon Sequestration Measurement
C.    Support for Income Generating Activities
n Agricultural and Livestock Production
n Off-farm Income Generating Activities
n Marketing and Agro-Processing
D.   Rural Roads



Component A. Community Development.
Capacity building of communities. The project is to be implemented
through a community-driven development process. This approach requires
the deepening of the participatory approaches initiated under MRMP in
order to develop effective mechanisms to involve all the community in
decision making, enhance community ownership and enable communities to
gain the skills and experience to request other local funding agencies
(e.g. Social Fund for Development, Shorouk Fund, education and heath
services etc.) for assistance and resources after the end of the project.
To achieve these objectives, the project will provide training to the
local community representatives (mandoubi) and the wider community
members. The initial training will focus on the overall strategy and
processes to be followed under MRMP II, the roles and responsibilities of
the mandoubi and the communities, the criteria and processes for
identifying disadvantaged households, establishment of the community's
development objectives, the processes for establishing development
priorities and prioritizing resource allocation as the basis for the
design of the Community Action Plans (CAPs). Following the initial
training, further training and facilitation will be provided to: (i)
assist the local communities to become legally recognized; (ii) acquire
negotiating skills and management capacities of their community affairs;
and, (iii) set in place the process for themselves to monitor the
implementation of the activities and evaluate the results. The
representation of the local communities will also be facilitated at higher
levels, i.e., the sub regional center levels and regional (project) level
for participation in the decision-making processes regarding project
resource allocation. The project would support the construction of basic
two-room social centres, with community contribution and community
involvement in management, in order to provide a venue for literacy
classes, training programs and other community activities.
Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity. The project would promote
a two-pronged approach to strengthening women's development capacity
through ensuring that women are 'integrated' into the overall
participatory planning process (albeit through separate meetings) with
their views solicited on such aspects as the criteria for defining the
disadvantaged households, on the selection of beneficiary households and
on the allocation of resources for different activities, particularly
communal facilities, whilst also separately addressing the special needs
and interests of women. Women would be provided with training in the new
participatory planning processes and role and responsibilities of mandoubi
I etc. to ensure that they have the same access to information as the men
and to allow them to influence processes through their informal channels.
As a key contribution to building women's capacity, the project would
support literacy classes for women and education for girls, with a 5-year
program aimed at providing the next generation with greater opportunities
for advancement. The project would assist women to reduce work load for
domestic chores through access to labor saving assets such as hand pumps,
ovens and carts for transport through credit and women's own contribution.
The project would also support nutrition, hygiene and health sensitization
programs, including promotion of the construction of latrines, through
enlisting the support of the Health Department. It would also promote
environmental awareness programs to assist women to participate in
- 2-



sustainable utilization and management of the resource base.
Component B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
Water harvesting and watershed management. Addressing the key constraints
of the project area of lack of water would continue to be a major concern
of the project through a major program for water harvesting and storage
and watershed management. Watershed management may require the involvement
of several communities having right over the same watershed, for the
design and implementation of sustainable watershed management plans taking
into consideration the different land use systems, the communities'
diverse needs for water, and reducing, by so doing, potential conflicts
among users. Implementation will be carried out using the successful
water harvesting and storage techniques and infrastructure (underground
cisterns/reservoirs and various types of dikes for water and soil
retention in the wadi) integrated within an overall strategy of watershed
management and using implementation procedures developed under the
on-going project. Protection of the upper catchment areas would continue
to be promoted through micro-catchment water harvesting measures,
shelterbelts against wind erosion and reseeding of range areas. Adaptive
research to establish water run-off coefficients and to investigate water
utilisation techniques would be supported.
Range management. The approach to range management adopted under MRMP
through establishing range management units has proved technically
effective in increasing the feed resources to meet the feed gap and to
reduce expenditure on concentrates by farmers but it has been costly and
has reached only a relatively small number of better-off farmers. This
has emphasized the need to find alternative methods which would be more
cost effective and more widely replicable. In response to this, MRMP II
will pilot a community managed approach to rangeland rehabilitation which
will focus on encouraging communities to delineate a section of degraded
range land to be rested from grazing with the aid of a guardian for 1-2
years. Restoration would be aided by contour furrowing and overseeding
small quantities of seeds of indigenous perennial plant species. Prudent
management of the remaining pastures would be ensured through dialogue
with the concerned communities, assisting them through participatory
approaches, to develop management mechanisms which both ensure that
overstocking does not take place and which can be enforced through the
community's own social controls. The adoption of rotational grazing
practices would be complemented by the plantation of fodder shrubs in pure
stands and/or intercropped with barley to compensate for the reduced
access to feed resources on the range. The size of such plots would be
geared to the needs of smaller livestock owners. These interventions would
be supported by adaptive research and extension on assessing/monitoring
the rangeland resources, germplasm resource enhancement and use in
plantations and rangeland rehabilitations and management and better use of
planted fodder shrubs.
Bio-Diversity Conservation and Carbon Sequestration. This component will
have the following specific objectives: (i) conserve biodiversity of the
unique dry land plants and animals: some of the local species identified
as endangered could be used for rangeland improvements; (ii) help the GOE
establish four already identified protected areas in NWCZ; (iii) develop
a coherent framework and national capacity to quantify and monitor carbon
-3 -



sequestration in different dry land ecosystems and under different land
uses; (iv) build national capacity for implementation of integrated
ecosystem management approaches; and (v) promote public awareness and a
replication strategy which would enable extension of project activities to
other parts of Egypt and the Middle East and North Africa and West Asia
Regions with similar ecology.
Component C. Support for Income Generating Activities
Agricultural and livestock production. The principal focus of the
agricultural and livestock development sub-component would be the
dissemination and active promotion of those technologies already developed
under MRMP that offer the best promise of improvement of existing farming
systems at minimal cost and risk. This process would focus on closing the
gap in productivity between the best producers and the average and poorer
performing farmers. This gap in performance still offers by far the prime
opportunity to advance poverty alleviation, enhance income and assure
resilience of family livelihoods.
During Phase II, there would be greater emphasis on extension, with more
farmer involvement and a new, community-based extension outreach effort
through the training of Community Facilitators in each of the 38 Local
Communities who would be chosen by community members with guidance from
project staff. They would serve as resource persons to handle the most
common farming advisory and training demands likely to emerge from the
farming systems in their particular locality. When they are unable to
provide the solutions themselves, they would be the liaison, in response
to farmer demand, with the SRSCs and head quarters for technical back-up.
Extension would be accompanied by a moderation of the adaptive research
program plus further community and farmer-demanded research and technology
development implemented through contractual arrangements with the Matruh
Adaptive Research Center. The themes would focus on improving product
quality and on meeting market requirements in order to improve farmers'
revenues and reflect realistic assessment of probable economic benefit and
farmer propensity to adopt. Start up funds will be available to local
communities for testing innovations upon request.
Livestock production. The approach to livestock production would continue
focusing on less dependence on concentrates, better use of crop
by-products, more value added to animal products at farm level e.g.
through fattening and ensuring the sustainability of the rangeland.
Livestock productivity interventions would include strengthening of the
ram exchange program through the distribution of improved rams (with
recipient farmers agreeing to pass on an existing good quality ram to a
neighboring herder to broaden the impact of expanding the gene poo). In
order to improve the genetic potential on a wider scale, the feasibility
of crossbreeding of Barki and Damascus goats through artificial
insemination would be further tested. Improvements in animal nutrition
would be promoted through the demonstration of feed blocks, urea treated
straw and mineral blocks.
Crop production. For field crops the emphasis would be on barley and
associated crops focusing on the testing of new varieties, improved
systems of cultivation and of water supplementation, and inter-planted
- 4 -



fodder shrubs in alley cropping systems. For tree crops and horticulture,
the emphasis would be on figs, olives and watermelons focusing on improved
husbandry practices, quality control and market grading measures, and the
testing of dried fig varieties and higher olive oil content cultivars. In
addition, new work on medicinal and aromatic plant domestication and
culture would be supported. The agronomic research would be complemented
by farm financial and economic evaluation of adaptive research findings.
Off-farm income generating activities. Promotion of off-farm income
generating activities would mainly target women through the provision of
training, access to small amounts of credit and market linkages in
response to women's requirements. The most likely activities would be
handicrafts, poultry raising, and small scale agro-processing. All
activities promoted would be preceded by thorough market investigations
and assistance in the development of sustainable institutional mechanisms
for accessing markets would be provided. Credit for women would continue
to be provided in kind initially through the revolving fund mechanism but
avenues would be explored to convert the revolving fund into a community
managed micro-finance intermediary to ensure sustained access to credit
beyond the project period. Other possible delivery mechanisms have yet to
be investigated but a possibility would be the establishment of a
micro-finance intermediary or entering into an agreement with the Shorouk
Fund to manage the credit on the project's behalf.
Proximity to the coastal development should provide future opportunities
for employment, firstly in the construction phase and subsequently in
service trades which project households should be equipped to exploit. To
this end, the project would support the training of young men in such
activities as carpentry, masonry, plumbing, welding, painting, etc.
Participation in regular courses may be constrained by the low educational
attainment levels of the beneficiaries, requiring the project to respond
by organizing such courses through contracting trainers for the duration
of the courses.
Marketing and agro-processing.    Marketing interventions would be directed
towards ensuring that future investments in agriculture and non-farm
activities are commercially driven. To this end, emphasis would be placed
on improving marketing awareness and the business skills of both the
beneficiaries and project staff. The focus would be on developing linkages
with the private sector through the project providing market awareness,
market research and market promotion services to farmers. Marketing
support would focus on building farmers' appreciation of market conditions
in order to improve their marketing decisions; and facilitating contact
and dialogue between middlemen and producers through trade meetings to
improve market linkages, to generate a better understanding of marketing
opportunities, constraints and issues and to facilitate market promotion.
These activities would be complemented by support for market research and
business planning to overcome the key constraints to the development of
new business opportunities, namely, poor knowledge of market opportunities
on the part of farmers and lack of evaluation of the potential
profitability of new opportunities. This would be followed by market
promotion assistance to develop potential opportunities and provision of
small amounts of seed capital to assist producers in the initial uptake of
activities. The project would also help the communities to get organized
- 5-



for marketing purposes, in particular to negotiate with wholesalers and
traders, profitable access to market outlets. The project will also help
set up a communication and information system to enable local communities
to have access to information on economic opportunities, market niches,
prices and relevant economic actors.
In addition to food processing and handicrafts, already mentioned, the
project would also investigate the scope for developing a medicinal plant
industry in the project area based on the domestication of indigenous
plants which are in high demand by traditional medical practitioners and
may have wider applications. Market investigation and test marketing would
be supported by the project and research into propagation techniques would
be commissioned.
Component D. Rural Roads
In response to the demands of communities, the project would construct
around 100 kms of feeder roads. In view of the expected high demand for
road construction, stringent selection criteria will be established to
take into account access to markets, social needs, population served, cost
effectiveness, etc.
Component
Sector Indicative
Costs
(US$M)
W of
Total   Bank-
financing
(US$M)  9 of
Bank-
financing       GEF financing (US$M)
A. Community Development
- Capacity-building of communities
- Women's capacity-building
4.00
9.3
1.50
37.5
0.6
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
- Watershed Management & Water        Harvesting
- Range Management
- Biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration
Sub-total
AI
AE
15.00
3.00
-6-



4. 4
22 .4
34 .9
7.0
15.1
57.0
7.00
1.00 
8.00
46.6
30.5
76 .9
4.4
4.4
C. Income generating activities
-Agricultural and Livestock Production
- Marketing and agro-processing
- Women off-farm activities
Sub-total
AE
3.00
4.00
2.50
9.50
7.0
9.3
5.8
22.1
1.00
1.00
0.50
2.50
30.5
25.0
20.0
-7 -



D. Rural Roads   TU      3.00     6.9     2.00     66.6
Project Management and Coordination               2.00     4.7     1.00     50.0
Total Project Costs               43.00   100.0    15.00   46.5    5.0
Front-end fee            0.00     0.0     0.00    0.0
Total Financing Required                  43.00    100.0   15.00   46.5     5.0
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will cover the same geographic boundaries of MRMP I on the
North West Coast (NWC) zone of Egypt. It extends over 320 km along the
NWC, with about 60 km inland. The area supports rain-fed agriculture,
with low and erratic rainfall and recurrent droughts.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: For the purposes of O.D. 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the
project has been classified as Category B, and will be subject to field
based review. A project Environmental Assessment will be carried out and
reviewed at pre-appraisal and finalized at appraisal. The recommended
actions will be incorporated into an Environmental Mitigation and
Management Plan (EMMP).
While the overall environmental impacts of the project are expected to be
strongly positive, an environmental screening process will provide
detailed information with regards to the impacts of construction and
operation stages for small-scale infrastructure.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       Yes
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
- 8-



OP 4.01 has been triggered on account of potential adverse impacts of
small-scale infrastructure. This will be assessed through a detailed
environmental assessment to be completed prior to appraisal. Safeguard
issues related to natural habitat (OP 4.04) will be assessed to verify any
significant impacts not already covered under OP 4.01. This will be
undertaken as part of the biodiversity conservation activities to ensure
that a critical balance between land and water uses for development, and
the uniqueness of the habitat from a biological and ecological value is
maintained.
The rural population of the NWC zone belong to one tribe (Awlad Ali) with
the current and proposed project services expected to positively affect
the overall socio-economic of the communities without interfering with or
negatively affecting their culture specificity. The applicability of OD
4.20 and its definition of 'indigenous peoples' will be assessed prior to
appraisal.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Overall, the environmental impacts of the project are expected to be minor
or moderate, with net positive benefits. By reducing run-off and
increasing the vegetative cover, the project would restore productivity of
degraded soils and improve prospects for sustainable natural resource
management in the watersheds and rangelands. Water conservation, planting
of fruit trees and forage shrubs would support the transition to an
ecologically more appropriate system, help reduce erosion and contribute
to combating desertification. Biodiversity conservation and ecosystem
management activities, including community conservation activities, the
support for the establishment of a Protected Areas and the
species-specific action plans will aim at improving the status of key
endangered species and habitats and ensuring that globally significant
resources are preserved, while providing sustainable use possibilities for
the local community.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Given the scale of envisaged sub-project interventions, it is not expected
that cumulative or long-term impacts on the ecosystem would result.
However, this will be verified during the environmental assessment.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
A description of several project alternatives will be included in the
Project Appraisal Document.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
(i) Capacity building of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to
undertake the screening (classification and clearance) of community-driven
sub-projects and the determination of safeguards works; (ii) coordination
with Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) staff for the
implementation of Protected Areas management plans; (iii) monitoring and
evaluation framework including environmental and social monitoring
indicators to ensure proper project performance in terms of safeguard
issues.
9



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders include local communities, Government and related
agencies, community associations, NGOs and relevant donors. The current
MRMP has established a successful participatory mechanism for the local
communities. This will be built upon and enhanced under the new project,
and will be utilized to discuss any identified safeguards issues with
local community representatives during the preparation stage.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     5/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 6/10/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  7/15/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Marie-Helene Collion    12/20/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Allan Rotman/Person/World Bank
- 10 -



01/03/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Concepcion Esperanza Del
Castillo/Person/World Bank       01/03/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     01/03/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Petros Aklilu    01/09/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 11 -



