Report No. PID10811
Project Name                     EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF-Second Matruh (@)
Resource Management Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Project ID                       P074075
Supplemental Project             P077281
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND RECLAMATION
Address: Dokki, Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Contact Person: Dr. Hussein Soliman, National
Coordinator and Technical
Counselor, Matruh Resource Management Project
Tel: 202-337-2198
Fax: 202-360-9399
Email: mrmp@internetalex.com
EGYPTIAN ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AGENCY
Address: P.O. Box 955, Maadi Post Office, Cairo, Egypt.
Contact Person: Prof. Dr. Mohamed Sayed Khalil, CEO, EEAA
Tel: 202-525-6450
Fax: 202-525-6454
Email: khalil@eeaa.gov.eg
Other Agencies: MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Address: Building of the International Project Center,
P.O. Box 62, Marsa,
Matruh, Egypt
Contact Person: Mr. Abdel Wahad El-Wateedy,
Dr. Sobhi El Naggar, Mr.
Ibrahim El-Mahdi
Tel: 20-46-493-1083/1802
Fax: 20-46-493-1082
Email: mrmp@internetalex.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 10, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              June 17, 2002
Bank Approval Date               March 6, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1 Sector Issues
Agriculture contributed about 17t to GDP and 12t of the value of total
exports in the 1990s, but captured only 7% of total investments. Almost
60% of the industrial sector's income comes from agricultural-based
operations such as cotton spinning and weaving and food processing
industries. Agriculture provides the food for about 65 million people



living in the Delta and the Nile Valley.
Over the last two decades, Egypt's agricultural sector pioneered the
economic reform process, with substantial success achieved in price
liberalization of inputs and outputs and the elimination of land-use
controls for most crops. During the 1990s, the focus was on increasing
agricultural productivity of land and water through more efficient use of
these limited resources. Thus, the performance of the agricultural sector
improved, from an average annual growth rate of 2.7w in the 1980s to 3.2w
in the 1990s. And the food gap narrowed significantly. Notwithstanding
this progress, much more needs to be done to harness the full potential of
this sector in increasing further agricultural production, rural incomes
and alleviating poverty. In addition to rural poverty, already cited
above, the following issues appear as the most relevant for the coming
years:
Water scarcity, a prime challenge for the future of Egypt. The Nile is
the country's life-sustaining water resource. It provides about 95t of
Egypt's water requirements and 90t of water supplies for its irrigated
agriculture. Rainfed agriculture occupies a very small percentage of
agricultural land, - only 4 percent. Per capita water availability has
already dropped below the scarcity level of 1,000m3 per-capita/year and
below the regional average (950 to 1,200 m3/c/year). It is expected to
fall to 670 m3/c/year by 2017.   Agriculture uses more than 80t of the
available water. However, the project area depends entirely on rainfed
agriculture and the water availability is well below the average. Thus,
managing the scarce water supply is critical.
Land and water degradation. Annual loss of land due to urban encroachment
is estimated to be between 15,000 and 30,000 feddan per year (1 feddan=
0.42 ha). As to land degradation, its major causes are poor irrigation
drainage, soil salinization, inadequate crop rotation and soil erosion.
In addition, water quality is deteriorating because of salinity and
increased concentrations of municipal and industrial pollution loads
entering the water bodies, particularly in the downstream reaches of
irrigation and drainage canals. In the project, the coastal zone area is
relatively little developed, but vacation villages are being built and
more are planned. It will be a challenge to ensure that unregulated
development does not occur, especially on sites of ecological importance.
Where development occurs, a proper environmental assessment should be
undertaken before plans are approved and once approved environmental
directives must be enforced.
Below-potential development of agricultural exports. Revenues from
agricultural exports, excluding cotton, have remained low and volatile
during the 1990s, owing to the incomplete liberalization of prices and
marketing mechanisms for some products. Other reasons, especially for the
horticulture sub-sector, identified as the most promising sub-sector for
exports, are import barriers in major potential markets, poor quality
control and the lack of reliable supporting infrastructure and other
services to allow private sector competitive involvement. The project
area grows figs and olives and has some potential to develop
medicinal/herbal products.
Thus, rural development is dominated by the critical need to manage scarce
-2 -



arable land and water resources more efficiently and sustainably, in order
to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population while maintaining the
natural biodiversity. Further scope for agricultural growth and exports
is contingent upon deepening the policy and institutional reforms
successfully undertaken in the 1990s, being mindful of the government's
environmental policy and strategy.
2.2 Government's strategy
The relevant elements of the GOE's agricultural strategy, as expressed in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) "Strategy for
Agriculture Development until year 2017" are as follows:
The maintenance and development of the natural resource base through a
more efficient allocation and use of soil and water resources, including
strict checking of encroachment of urban activities on agricultural land
and rationalizing water use in the major water-consuming crops: wheat,
rice, maize, cotton an sugarcane. Soil reclamation and soil amelioration
will be given priority to overcome the problems of soil salinity and water
logging.
As part of the strategy to safeguard agricultural land against
desertification, green belts, hedges and shelterbelts will be encouraged.
Agricultural exports will be promoted, based on quality assurance and
product safety, removing obstacles to private sector development and
improving rural infrastructure.
The role of rural women in development will be promoted through literacy
programs and the enhancement of women-led small and micro-enterprises to
increase women's access to economic opportunities in the livestock,
indigenous resources (e.g. medicinal/herbal plants), marketing and
processing sub-sectors.
In the environmental sector, Law 102 of 1983 provides the legal framework
for the declaration and management of protected areas and regulates the
conservation of natural resources. Since the first Protected Area was
established in 1983 at Ras Mohammed, 19 Protected Areas, covering 80,000
km2 have been established (Baha El Din 1998). The EEAA has full executive
authority over the management of the Protected Areas (Baha El Din 1998). A
National Study on Biological Diversity was completed in 1996, followed by
the release of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP)
in 1998. The principal strategic goal is the proper management and
protection of natural resources and biodiversity. Capacity building,
improving awareness, and strengthening the private sector, NGOs, and
research institutes involved with the project are all part of the strategy
and action plan. Based on this strategy, the Nature Conservation Sector of
EEAA has undertaken an assessment of new potential protected areas
according to established global and national criteria (Baha El Din, 1998),
four of which fall within the MRMP project zone.
Law 4 of 1994 'Promulgating the Environment Law' defined the scope and
responsibilities of the EEAA and established an environmental protection
fund. Articles 17 to 23 require environmental impact assessments prior to
development. The law also forbids hunting and habitat destruction of
- 3 -



specified types of wild birds and animals as well as protection of air,
land and water from various types of pollution. Following a three-year
grace period, monitoring and enforcement of the law is being undertaken by
an inspection unit within EEAA in cooperation with the relevant competent
authorities. Significant progress has been achieved in the last five
years, although limited enforcement capacity and weak inter-sectoral
coordination mechanisms continue to provide barriers.
In addition to the national laws, Egypt is also party to several
international conventions and agreements. Conventions that Egypt has
signed with implications for biodiversity are the African Convention on
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (Algiers 1968); Convention on
Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat
(Ramsar 1971); Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) (Washington, D.C. 1973); Convention of the
Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animal (CMS)(Bonn 1983);
Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio 1992); particularly Protected Area
Protocol of the Barcelona Agreement; and the African-Eurasian Migratory
Water Bird Agreement (AEWA) (The Hague 1995).
2. Objectives
The overarching objective of the Matruh Resource Management Project II
(MRMP II) is to improve the livelihood of the more disadvantaged rural
people living in the Northwest Coastal Zone thereby contributing to
poverty alleviation. This will be achieved through community development,
building their capacity to access services to improve their welfare and
increase their incomes while at the same time strengthening their capacity
to conserve, rehabilitate and use their natural resources in a sustainable
manner.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is involved in the implementation of community-driven development
projects and natural resource management projects in many countries, in
the Mediterranean and North Africa Region (MNAR) and other regions. The
MNA region recently financed a review of eight projects with a
community-driven development (CDD) approach (see above, lessons learnt).
The Bank will also play a leading role, mobilizing other donors, given its
experience in the first project.
The GEF value added comes from its global experience in the design,
implementation and financing of biodiversity, climate change and
international waters projects. The GEF support is justified by the total
regional and global benefits attained from the integrated approaches to
land, water and biodiversity management in the project area. Coordination
with other GEF projects in the country and region will enhance the
opportunities for exchange of ideas, information and integrated monitoring
and oversight.
4. Description
The proposed MRMP II will comprise the following six components to be
implemented over a six-year period from 2003 to 2008. These will be
described first and the role of the GEF contribution will be highlighted
later.
-4-



A. Community Development
Capacity Building of Communities
Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
Water Harvesting and Watershed Management
Range Management
Bio-diversity Conservation and Environmental Management Plan
Implementation
C. Productive Activities Development
Agricultural and Livestock Services
Off-farm Productive Activities
D. Rural Roads
E Revolving Fund/ Rural Micro-finance
F. Project Management
A summary of the various components is given below. A detailed
description can be found in Annex II and in the MRMP Formulation Report
(see Annex 10, List of Documents in Project File).
Component A. Community Development (US 8.2 million)
Capacity building of communities. The objective of this sub-component is
to further the participatory approach initiated under MRMP I. To achieve
this objective the project will provide support to local community
representatives (mandoubeen) at the level of the aila for the design of
Community Action Plans (CAPs), including: (i) an initial training focusing
on the roles and responsibilities of the mandoubeen; (ii) the criteria and
processes for identifying disadvantaged households; and, (iii) the process
for establishing development priorities and prioritizing resource
allocation. Following the initial training, further training and
facilitation will be provided for the local communities to:
(i) acquire negotiating skills and management capacities of their
community affairs;
(ii) understand the basic concepts of biodiversity conservation, and
environmental assessment;
(iii) set in place the process for monitoring the implementation of their
activities and evaluate the results; and
(iv) become legally recognized, upon their request.
The representation of the local communities will also be facilitated at
higher levels, i.e., at the Sub-regional Support Center levels and Project
headquarters level for participation in the decision-making processes
regarding project resource allocation.    It will also provide improved
access to information and communication facilities within the communities.
This component will also support local community initiatives, not foreseen
at the time of project preparation.
Strengthening of women's development capacity. The project will promote a
two-pronged approach to strengthening women's development capacity by:
- 5 -



(i) ensuring that women take part in the overall participatory planning
process (albeit through separate meetings) and that they have the same
access to information as the men, to allow them to influence processes
through their informal channels.
(ii) soliciting their views on such aspects as: a) the criteria for
defining the disadvantaged households, b) the selection of beneficiary
households, and c) the allocation of resources for different activities,
particularly communal facilities, whilst also separately addressing the
special needs and interests of women.
The project will support the construction of basic two-room social
centers, with community contribution and community involvement in
management, in order to provide a venue for literacy classes, training
programs, environmental awareness and other community activities. Literacy
classes for women and primary education programs for girls will be
conducted in collaboration with the Education Department. The Project will
assist women to reduce work load for domestic chores through access to
labor saving assets such as hand pumps, ovens and carts for transport
under shared financial arrangements (partly project financed, partly
women's own contribution). The project will support the construction of
latrines and nutrition, hygiene and health sensitization programs, through
enlisting the support of the Health Department. With GEF funding, the
Project will also promote environmental awareness programs through formal
and informal environmental education in schools and at the community
centers. Affordable alternative energy sources for cooking, particularly
renewable sources, will be demonstrated in selected communities and
introduced through partial financing to promote wider-scale use to enhance
conservation of biomass.
Component B. Integrated Natural Resource Management (US$ 21.1 million)
Water harvesting and watershed management. The key issue of lack of water
will be addressed through a major program for water harvesting and storage
and watershed management. Implementation will be carried out using the
proven successful water harvesting and storage techniques and
infrastructure (underground cisterns/reservoirs and various types of dikes
for water and soil retention in the wadis) integrated within an overall
strategy of watershed management. Watershed management may require the
involvement of several communities having rights over the same watershed,
to assist in the designing and implementation of sustainable watershed
management plans taking into consideration the different land use systems,
the communities' diverse needs for water, and reducing, or eliminating
potential conflicts amongst users. Protection of the upper catchment
areas will continue to be promoted with GEF contribution, through
micro-catchment water harvesting measures, shelterbelts against wind
erosion and re-seeding of range areas. Adaptive research to establish
water run-off coefficients and to investigate water utilization techniques
will be supported.
Range management. The objective of this sub-component is to develop a
strategy for the sustained use of the communal resources, based on a
community-managed approach to rangeland rehabilitation and utilization.
Such an approach, based on the establishment of pilot grazing management
units (PGMUs), will aim at managing the vegetation as well as the
- 6 -



animals. The underlying principle is to simulate the large herd movements
of the past by dividing the land under management into several plots which
animals graze one after the other, providing the plants enough time to
recover. All features of such schemes (size, number of participants,
grazing calendar, etc.) are left to the decision of the herders' group,
according to the state of degradation of their land, social constraints,
and their experience and managerial ability.
With GEF funding, biodiversity concepts will be introduced into range
management activities. GEF will finance adaptive research and extension on
assessing/monitoring the rangeland resources, germ plasm resource
enhancement; evaluation of rangeland restoration technologies and on
advising producers on the best use of planted fodder shrubs. Research
will help establish optimal length of time that major rangeland plants
require for their regeneration under different climatic conditions. This
data is essential for grazing management planning. Four Protected Plots
will be established to provide in situ source of germ plasm of desirable
perennial range plant species which have little opportunity to produce
seed under present grazing conditions.
Bio-Diversity Conservation and EMP Implementation. This sub-component will
be funded by GEF grant financing and represents an enhanced focus on
biodiversity conservation and integrated environmental management from the
previous project. It will be implemented under an integrated approach:
Integrating environmental education and awareness into community capacity
building activities and introducing alternative fuel sources (Component A);
Integrating ecosystem conservation concepts into range and water
management activities with the communities (sub-component B.1 and B.2); and
Supporting sustainable income-generating activities to reduce resource
over-exploitation (Component C).
In addition to the above activities, the Project will monitor and update
the record on the status of biodiversity in the area, develop strategies
for enhancing eco-tourism based on community involvement and conservation
concepts, strengthen local level capacity for environmental monitoring and
planning through the funding of staff and equipment and the provision of
training on environmental matters, including resource inventory and
evaluation; environmental assessment, multi-disciplinary resource
management, socio-economic surveying; integrated land use planning, and
species monitoring and evaluation. It will support the creation of
community managed biodiversity conservation areas; and participatory
training on specific environmental issues.
The project will assist the GOE in the establishment of two Protected
Areas (PAs) in the NWCZ (El Qasr and Saloum). Management of the Protected
Areas will specifically focus on means of integrating local populations
into Protected Area development plans, protection and management, which
will include activities promoting biodiversity conservation and rangeland
management. In addition, a compensation fund will be allocated to allow
for the undertaking of alternative income generating activities in case of
any potential loss or restriction of access to resources following the
establishment of the Protected Areas management plans. These can include
additional off-farm income generating activities and payment for targeted
community conservation mechanisms for potentially affected beneficiaries
-7 -



to be funded through Local Community grants. Visitors centres will be
constructed for public education programmes and staff recruited to manage
the Protected Areas.
Finally, the sub-component will implement the Environmental Management
Plan (see Annex 14). The EMP identifies the environmental mitigation
measures, screening process, capacity-building and monitoring activities
that will be undertaken during Project implementation to ensure that any
potential adverse environmental impacts are either eliminated or minimized.
Component C. Productive Activities Development (US$ 5.0 million)
Agricultural and livestock services. The principal focus of the
sub-component is the dissemination of those technologies already developed
under MRMP I that offer the best promise of improvement of existing
farming systems at minimal cost and risk. There will be more farmer
involvement and a new community-based extension outreach effort through
the training of Community Technical Contact Persons (wakil/wukala), one
per Local Community. These facilitators, chosen by community members,
will serve as resource persons to handle the most common farming advisory
demands and liaise with their Sub-Regional Support Centre for technical
support.
Extension will be accompanied by a tailoring of the adaptive research
program to meet farmer needs through contractual arrangements with the
Matruh Adaptive Research Center. The agronomic research will be
complemented by farm financial and economic evaluation of adaptive
research findings:
For livestock production, the approach will focus on lessening the
dependence on concentrates, better use of crop by-products, more value
added to animal products at the farm level e.g., through fattening and
ensuring the sustainability of the rangeland. Livestock productivity
interventions will include extending the ram exchange and goat genetic
improvement program. Improvements in animal nutrition will be promoted
through the demonstration of feed blocks, urea treated straw and mineral
blocks. Work in collaboration with WID will focus on improved husbandry
practices for poultry, pigeon and turkeys.
For crop production, the emphasis will be on barley and associated crops
such as vetch, focusing on the testing of new varieties, improved systems
of cultivation and of water supplementation, and inter-planted fodder
shrubs in alley cropping systems.
For tree crops and horticulture, the emphasis will be on figs, olives and
watermelons focusing on improved husbandry practices, quality control and
market grading measures, and the testing of dried fig varieties and higher
olive oil content cultivars. In addition, new work on medicinal and
aromatic plant domestication and culture will be supported through the GEF
contribution.
Off-farm Productive Activities. The objective of this sub-component is to
increase and diversify rural household income through the development of:
(a) household or cottage agri-processing (production of shelled almonds,
dried figs and pickled olives); and (b) traditional Bedouin handicrafts.
The component will be market driven, building upon Bedouin resources,
skills and organization, and taking into account women socio-economic
- 8 -



environment and their life-style priorities. It will focus on:
providing access to market information (quality, prices, market locations,
transportation, and conditions of market entry);
improving the quality of products (agricultural or handicrafts), to
respond to a market demand as well as to create new market niches
(building upon a "Matruh" label, to be promoted);
facilitate provision of inputs for producers;
ensure the regular sale of the end products;
promote and train local community-based organizations that will be able to
manage the operation when the break-even point will be reached. These
community-based organizations will be gender specific (i.e. women
organizations for specific women activities); and
ensure that the promoted activities are environmentally sustainable,
through integration into the overall area development plans and respective
sub-project environmental reviews.
These functions will be ensured by community marketing professionals with
the aim to develop an economically sound and sustainable production and
marketing operation that should reach a break-even point within three or
four years. These professionals will be responsible for: (a) the
recruitment and training of local people who will participate in the
operation (quality control), (b) the management of the operation until the
break-even point is reached and the operation handed over to local
community-based organization(s); and (c) technical assistance to these
organization(s), declining in intensity over time, to help them run the
operation.
GEF contribution under this sub-component will be geared towards provision
of technical assistance to investigate those activities that have global
environmental benefits and ensure environmental sustainability. These
include supply surveys and market investigation for medicinal and herbal
plants, based on the domestication of wild indigenous species, drawing
from the experience of the GEF "Medicinal Plants" project at St.
Katherine's Protectorate in Sinai.
Component D. Rural Roads (US$ 4.0 million)
The project will surface unpaved feeder roads (for a total of about 135
km.). Six dirt roads have already been identified as part of an overall
program of 300 km of feeder roads, 200 km of which have been implemented
with the World Food Program. It will also give advice on the alignment of
new roads and their protection against erosion (use of techniques to bind
the soil and prevent drifting). As under the World Food Program, the
communities will participate in road construction through the gathering
and stockpiling of stones along the side of the road, for the contractor
to use. The purpose is to provide the communities with an additional
source of income and build a sense of ownership for later maintenance.
The local communities will be trained for basic and simple maintenance.
The roads will be handed over to the Road Works Department after
completion.
Component E.   Revolving Fund/Rural Micro-Finance    (US$ 3.6 million)
The present project has been managing a small revolving fund. For
-9-



sustainability, the MALR agreed that an independent pilot micro-finance
scheme should be tested with mobile credit retailers initially based in
the SRSCs, and local traders who will deliver credit in kind. The Project
will provide:
a revolving fund to initiate the lending process; and
funding to support training and establishment of professional credit
retailers in the Project area.
Component F.    Project Management  (US$ 2.9 million).
The Project will fund the necessary equipment, vehicles, staff
development, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation system for
efficient and effective management of the Project. A line item in the
budget will be used to explore the scope and feasibility for extending the
participatory approach to other areas in the Governorate (Siwa) or other
rainfed areas in Egypt through commissioning special studies and
assessment visits to these areas by key Project staff for interaction with
the local government, communities, etc.
A. Community Development
B. Integrated Natural Resource Management
C. Productive Activities Development
D. Rural Roads
E. Rural Micro-Finance
F. Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $10.36
IBRD $12.35
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $4.38
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT $12.70
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.17
Total Project Cost $44.97
6. Implementation
Project management arrangements will largely follow the structure
established under MRMP I, but other stakeholders will be involved to
reflect the enhanced focus on environmental and participatory aspects.
Execution responsibility will be assigned with autonomous funding to the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) for the implementation of the
biodiversity conservation activities    Coordination will be enhanced with
the Governorate and relevant Ministries to ensure the sustainability of
services beyond the project life.
Governing bodies.
The expression of local community requests, the coordination and the
consistency of activities to be implemented will be ensured by 4
committees located at the national, regional and sub-regional levels
the National Coordination Committee (NCC);
the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the Local Communities'
Regional Committee; and
- 10 -



Local Communities' Sub-regional Committees at the SRSCs level; one at each
SRSC
The National Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of the National
Coordinator appointed by MALR includes a representative from the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) and the Director of Foreign
Agriculture Relations of the Ministry of Agriculture. When appropriate,
representatives of other services or bi/multi-lateral projects being
executed in the project area will be co-opted. Under MRMP II, this
Committee should take a more active role in the affairs of the project.
The NCC: (i) provides guidance on issues of policy and strategy consistent
with national programming concerns; (ii) facilitates and supports the work
of the project management team; and (iii) monitors the performance of the
Project.
At the Governorate level, the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) is a
coordinating mechanism between the Project, the local communities'
representatives and the other Governorate entities. It will have its
mandate and membership updated to ensure representation of the Health,
Education and Social services which were not part of the PCC under the
first project. The Governorate Environmental Management Unit (EMU) which
will be involved under the Project with GEF funding as well as NCS/EEAA
which will be directly responsible for the set-up and management of the
proposed two Protectorates will be represented on the PCC. An important
innovation is the fact that local communities will be represented on the
Project Coordination Committee, with two representatives, whereas under
MRMPI, the PCC was exclusively an administrative body.
The Project Coordination Committee meets four times a year. It: (i)
ensures a two-way flow of information between the project, the governorate
and the sectoral services; (ii) ensures coordination in planning and
implementation between CAPs and project activities on the one hand, and
governorate annual investment plan and sectoral plans on the other hand;
(iii) facilitates the provision of additional required services to local
communities as need may arise; and (iv), resolves any issue that may arise
during implementation that are beyond the scope of the Project.
Local communities are represented at the Sub-regional Support Center level
(2 representatives per Local Community). The five Local Community
Sub-regional committees will each choose two representatives for the Local
Community Regional Committee which in turn, will elect two representatives
to the PCC. These committees are communication and consultation
mechanisms for the Local Communities themselves which enable them to
exchange experience and learn from each other. In addition, the regional
level committee has specific functions, as follows: (i) identify
implementation problems and make proposals to solve them; (ii) prepare the
Project Coordination Committee; and (iii) organize feedback information
to local communities. Therefore it meets four times a year also. Each
session includes a meeting before and after the PCC meeting.
The additional functions of the Local Community Sub-regional Committee is
to: (i) identify the sub-regional priorities to be discussed with local
popular councils and sectoral services; (ii) identify activities that cut
across or show effects across community boundaries; and (iii) prepare the
Local Community Regional Committee.



Project implementation arrangements. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will coordinate the implementation of the project activities through its
five Sub-Regional Support Centers (SRSCs), supported by research carried
out under the Matruh Applied Research Center (MARC). The PCU has
delegation of authority regarding the disbursement of project funds and
procurement. Over the years, it has acquired considerable experience with
the implementation of the first MRMP.
Modifications will be made to the organizational structure to reflect the
changes in emphasis, namely, the greater focus on community planning,
gender, environmental protection, range management and off-farm income
generating activities, including more efficient access to and
dissemination of project-related information within the project and
between the project and the communities. There will be six implementing
units under the PCU regrouped under three Directors:
Community Development and Gender Unit, under the Director of Community
Development;
Land and Water Management Unit (including Roads); Range Management Unit;
and Biodiversity Conservation Unit (EEAA/NCS seconded staff), all under
the Director for Natural Resource Management;
Agricultural and Livestock Services Unit, and a supervisor, in charge of
monitoring the implementation of the off-farm productive activities and
the micro-finance scheme, under the Director for Productive Activities
Development.
Each Unit is headed by its own manager, responsible for managing its own
budget and preparing its annual work program. The Unit managers, together
with the head of the Financial Management Unit and the Directors of the
Sub Regional Support Centers constitute the Project Management Committee,
an internal task force for coordinating the planning and the
implementation of the activities. This task force : (i) ensures
consistency of unit work programs with the Local Communities' Annual Work
Program, reviewing, approving, or requesting revision in case of
inconsistency; (ii) reviews unit progress reports; and (iii), ensures
facilitation, mediation, and conflict resolution.The PMC meets at least
monthly and is chaired by the DDG.
The Biodiversity Conservation Unit will be headed by a EEAA seconded
manager. The GEF contribution will finance the secondment of three staff
from the Nature Conservation Sector of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency (NCS/EEAA). This unit will be located in the PCU to enhance
coordination and the adoption of multi-disciplinary approaches to
implementation. However, it will manage a separate budget. The recurrent
costs of this unit will be gradually taken up by EEAA so as to ensure
financial sustainability of this supporting structure to facilitate its
integration within the separate Protected Area Management (PAM) office
when the Project ends. Initially, the Protected Areas Management office
will be housed in one of the SRSCs until official declaration and
preparatory work is completed.
Change in Management Culture. The core concern of MRMP II is achieving
sustainability through fostering self-reliance and promoting community
ownership of the development process. This will require some changes in
the Project management culture in order to create the space for the
- 12 -



communities to develop their own managerial capabilities. It will require
Project staff to adopt a supportive and facilitating role rather than an
implementing role. Changes will include in particular re-defining the
terms of reference and staff profiles for all senior project staff (both
managerial and technical).
Local communities' role. Local communities will be playing an even more
active role than under the on-going project: (i) they will elaborate their
Community Action Plans (CAPs) and Annual Work Program and Budgets,
indicating their priorities in terms of resource allocation; Project
actions will be based on the aggregation of the AWPBs; (ii) they will
identify the poorest households for targeted interventions; and (iii) they
will be more involved in the implementation: not only digging cisterns,
but also managing the range, undertaking biodiversity conservation
actions; participating in the management of the Protected Areas and other
areas of biodiversity importance; taking part in the diffusion of
knowledge and information through the wukala; organizing the production
and the marketing of their handicrafts and processed agri-products;
providing the basic material (stone gathering and stockpiling) for road
construction.
Contracting out. Contracting out tasks whenever possible, instead of
recruiting staff to perform them, will stimulate the development of local
expertise to serve the needs of the Local Communities and enhance
sustainability of project actions. It is hoped that this expertise will
continue to be available after the Project closure. In particular, for the
off-farm income-generating activities (handicrafts and agro-processing), a
technical assistance firm will supervise community marketing
professionals, recruited to set up the system and provide training and
backstopping to producer groups. Similarly, a specialized technical
assistance company will be responsible for the set up of the micro-finance
credit scheme. Finally, most of the watershed development will be
contracted out to local enterprises, as well as all the road works.
Financial Management and Accounting. Financial management, accounting and
financial reporting will be assured by the Financial Management Unit of
the PCU. The FMU will maintain accounting records for project components,
prepare and disseminate project accounts and Financial Monitoring Reports
(See Section E. 4.4 for Financial management issues and Annex 6B).
7. Sustainability
The core concern of MRMP II is achieving sustainability through fostering
self-reliance and promoting community ownership of the development process
and strengthening relations with existing Government institutions and
services. This will be achieved through Component 1, Capacity-building of
local communities.
The sustainability of services provided to the communities will depend on
the mainstreaming of the Matruh Adaptive Research Center and of some of
the services now managed by the PCU, in particular the services provided
by the Sub-regional support centers. It will also depend on the extent to
which the Project can transfer some of the implementation responsibility
to existing NGOs and help establish a micro-finance scheme. This issue
will be looked into further during Appraisal.
- 13 -



Sustainability of services and mechanisms established under the GEF will
depend on the capacities of local communities and Government agencies to
continue the formulation and adoption of integrated management plans in
the area; it will be addressed through targeted capacity building
programs, as well as the inclusion of the relevant Government agencies in
the implementation from the start. As previously stated this includes
supporting field presence of the NCS/EEAA for the management of protected
areas jointly with the communities, as well as ensuring that communities
themselves undertake their own 'informal' conservation schemes. Support
for the enhanced environmental management capacity in the Governorate will
also hopefully have a positive impact on the quality of services and
mechanisms of development planning in the future.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The World Bank MENA region recently financed a review of eight projects
with a community-driven development (CDD) approach, including the MRM
project. The region organized regional workshops as well as a workshop at
headquarters, based on the conclusions and recommendations of this study
(see Annex 18 and Moncef Zghidi: Review of Community-Driven development
Projects in MNA: Case study of Matruh Resources Management Project (April
2001). In addition to the lessons already incorporated in Section 3: Key
policy and institutional reforms to be sought, the following supplementary
lessons from this review were taken into account in project preparation:
(i) Effective demand-driven approach. A rigid budget with specific
activities at the design phase of the project would contradict the
demand-driven approach. Hence, initial budget allocation among components
and cost tables (Costab) can only be indicative. Thus, to minimize the
conflict between the need for flexibility and the requirements of project
design and budgeting, the project preparation process puts considerable
emphasis on the assessment of demand, with the formulation of new CAPs.
The need for flexibility in implementation will be highlighted in the
project description section of the loan agreement, thus giving enough
leeway for budget reallocation based on communities' requests.
(ii) Capacity-building, targeting communities. MRMP I emphasized capacity
building of a technical nature for project staff, but little was done for
capacity building of the communities themselves, other than for women.
Thus, MRMP II will put particular emphasis on local community capacity
building. (Component A).
(iii) Criteria for resource allocation to target the poorest and
independent external evaluation of their implementation. Project managers
as well as community representatives can be under considerable political
and social pressure to allocate resources in ways that will not
necessarily target the poorest. Elite capture is a common phenomenon.
Therefore, while the problem of political and social pressure, and elite
capture cannot be completely avoided, project preparation has been
emphasizing the definition of criteria for resource allocation and
agreement thereupon with the communities. External independent evaluations
will be scheduled during implementation to monitor compliance. See
Section E.6.4. Summary Project Analysis - Social. (Page 29).
(iv) Marketing issues. Promoting increased agricultural production,
agricultural diversification, processing and handicrafts will run into
- 14 -



difficulties if marketing issues are not addressed up-front. The off-farm
income-generating activity component integrates the chain of functions,
from production to markets.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The environmental impact of the project is expected to be strongly
positive. By reducing runoff and increasing vegetative cover, the project
would restore the productivity of degraded soils and improve prospects for
sustainable natural resource management of degraded land in the watersheds
and the rangelands. The promotion of water management and conservation
with fruit tree planting in the coastal zone, as foreseen under the
project, would support the transition to an ecologically more appropriate
system of settled agriculture and, at the same time, help to reduce
erosion. The introduction of water conservation methods and the planting
of forage shrubs would furthermore contribute to combating
desertification. An environmental mitigation plan will be prepared for
appraisal. The project activities will furthermore enhance the
bio-diversity in the NWCZ through the activities of the adaptive research
and extension, improved management of range lands and the promotion of
nonagricultural income-generating activities which aim to conserve
environmental resources.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Marie-Helene Collion
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4994
Fax: 202-477-1374
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 21, 2003.
- 15 -



