                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                Report No: 35258-EG



                                  PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                                   ON A

                                                  LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.35 MILLION

           AND A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.00 MILLION (US$5.17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                   ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT


                                                FOR THE

                SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                              June 12, 2006




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Department
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective February 9, 2005)

              Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
                  LE 1.00 =      US$0.17
                  US$1.00 =      LE 5.73


                         FISCAL YEAR

                         July 1 to June 30



            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
GEF        Global Environmental Facility
GOE        Government of Egypt
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
MRMP I     First Matruh Resource Management Project
MRMP II    Second Matruh Resource Management Project
NWCZ       North-West Coastal Zone




              Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
            Country Director:     Emmanuel Mbi
             Sector Manager:      Luis F. Constantino
           Task Team Leader:      Marie-Hélène Collion

                            PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                              ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

           SECOND MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                         (TF 052031-EGT and IBRD 7161-EGT)


1.      On March 6, 2003, the Executive Directors approved a loan in the amount of
US$12.35 million and a GEF of SDR 4.00 million (US$5.17 million equivalent).
The Loan and GEF Grant Agreements were signed on March 20, 2003. All conditions
were met. The effectiveness date was first extended until March 2004, then until
December 2004. On May 10, 2004, the Bank received a letter from the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs requesting the cancellation of US$8.35 million out of the loan. The Bank
agreed to cancel that amount in a letter dated May 27, 2004. Thereafter, there were a
number of exchanges with the GOE on the revised allocation of the loan proceeds.
However, in its letter of December 6, 2004, the GOE requested the cancellation of the
Loan altogether.

Background

2.      The project is situated in the North West Coastal Zone (NWZC) of Egypt,
inhabited by an indigenous Bedouin population. An extensive dry land production system
of sheep/goat-barley-tree crop is the basis of their livelihood. The decrease in nomadic
lifestyle that occurred in the last few decades in the NWCZ has transformed traditional,
ecologically balanced, pastoral systems to potentially unsustainable sedentary agriculture.
This transformation has increased human and animal pressures on the fragile resource
base and ecosystems of the arid environment, creating a cycle of resource degradation
and human poverty, threatening biodiversity, and accelerating environmental
deterioration. In addition, the Bedouin have limited experience in sustainable resource
management in a sedentary environment and thus have limited coping strategies. They
have very limited access to off-farm employment opportunities. The situation of women
and girls is particularly difficult as, according to Bedouin traditions, they are not allowed
to travel beyond a radius of three kilometers from their homes. Hence their access to
health and education is very limited.

3.      The GOE began to address the above issues under the First Matruh Resource
Management Project (MRMP I) with IDA funding, focusing on natural resource
management, agricultural development and community development. The innovative
aspect of the first project was its participatory approach, which combined technical
innovations and the socio-economic and institutional development needs of the Local
Communities. MRMP I achieved considerable success in pioneering the participatory
approach in the challenging environment of a traditional (male dominated) tribal social
system and in gaining the trust and confidence of the Bedouin people. MRMPII built

                                             2


upon the successes of the first Project, to further the participatory process and empower
local communities with the aim of achieving development sustainability.

Project Objectives and Description

4.      The overarching objective of Matruh Resource Management Project II (MRMP
II) was to contribute to improving the welfare of the rural people of the NWCZ,
especially the more disadvantaged rural people and, thus, contribute to poverty
alleviation. This was to be done through community development, developing rural
people's capacity to access services to improve their livelihood and increase their
incomes while at the same time strengthening their capacity to conserve, rehabilitate and
use their natural resources in a sustainable manner.


5.      Within this framework of integrated resource management, GEF support was to
address global environmental concerns in the day-to-day management of resources, as
well as mainstream environmental dimensions into overall planning and implementation
of development activities, with a focus on biodiversity conservation, enhanced energy
efficiency and improved land and water management.


6.      The Project was fully consistent with the objective of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which emphasized poverty reduction. The alleviation of rural poverty in
particular was cited in the CAS as the most relevant target for the coming years.

7.      MRMP II comprised the following six components to be implemented over a five-
year period from 2003 to 2007.

        A.     Community Development
               ·       Capacity Building of Communities
               ·       Strengthening of Women's Development Capacity

        B.     Integrated Natural Resource Management
               ·       Water Harvesting and Watershed Management
               ·       Range Management
               ·       Bio-diversity Conservation and Environmental Management Plan
                       Implementation

        C.     Productive Activities Development
               ·       Agricultural and Livestock Services
               ·       Off-farm Productive Activities

        D.     Rural Roads

        E      Revolving Fund/ Rural Micro-finance

        F.     Project Management

                                             3




8.      The total Project Cost was estimated at US$45 million, with a foreign exchange
component of about US$8 million. The IBRD Loan was to provide US$12.35 and the
GEF Grant US$5.17 million. The International Fund for Agricultural Development, the
GOE and the Local Communities were to finance the remaining costs.


Reasons for cancellation

9.      Given the follow-on nature of this project and the positive Development Outcome
of the first project, the Government's decision to initially seek partial and eventually full
cancellation of the loan was based not on project specific factors but on country level
changes in financing priorities.     With Egypt's graduation from IDA in 1999, the
Government had begun to closely evaluate the financial implications of new IBRD
borrowings for projects that could be otherwise financed from grant resources. As this
was a new issue at the time for the Bank and the Government was making determination
in this regard on a case-by-case basis at the time, the decision on Matruh II was clarified
only after IBRD Board approval.

Lessons learnt

10.     During the period of extended transition that follows graduation from IDA (and
the implementation of the remaining IDA portfolio) and the commencement of IBRD
borrowing, it may be necessary for the Bank and the Government to jointly re-confirm
the lending pipeline to ensure that projects continue to remain a priority on the new
financing terms.

