Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
September 22, 2002 
 
H.E. Fayza Aboulnaga 
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
8
Adly Street, Downtown 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Re: Global 
Environment 
Facility 
(“GEF”) Grant for the Preparation 
of 
 
the Second Matrouh Resource Management Project (“MRMP II”) 
 
GEF-PPG Number TF028349
 
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
“Bank”) acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the Bank’s agreement to make a grant 
(the “Grant”) in an amount not exceeding three hundred thousand United States dollars (US$300,000) to 
the Arab Republic of Egypt (the “Recipient”). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the purposes and on 
the terms and conditions. 
 
The provision of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part of the Bank 
as GEF Implementing Agency of the, or in its own capacity, or the International Development 
Association to assist in the financing of the aforementioned Project. 
Page  2
H.E. Fayza Aboulnaga   
 
 
- 2- 
    
                                                TF028349 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This Letter Agreement will become effective 
upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, and the Bank being 
informed by the Recipient of the completion of the Recipient’s domestic constitutional procedures 
provided, however, this Letter Agreement will lapse if such effectiveness does not take place within 
ninety (90) days of its countersignature unless the Bank shall have established a later date for such 
purpose. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency 
of the Global Environment Facility 
 
/s / Jamal Al-Kibbi
Jamal Al-Kibbi 
Acting Country Director for Egypt, Djibouti and Yemen 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By   /s/ H.E. Fayza Aboulnaga
Name:  Fayza
Aboulnaga 
 
Title:   Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Date: September 23, 2002
Page  3
Annex 
 
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
 
1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in carrying out preliminary assessments, field 
studies and consultations required for the formulation of a comprehensive GEF project that will be part of 
the Second Matrouh Resource Management Project, to support through different activities, biodiversity 
conservation and carbon sequestration efforts in the North West Coast of Egypt (the Project).  The 
activities to be financed by the Grant (the 
“Activities”) are as follows: 
 
(a) 
conducting baseline biodiversity surveys to fill knowledge gaps concerning the status of 
flora and fauna in the area, existing threats and root causes for these threats, assessment of current 
agricultural practices, rangeland management activities and overall environmental conditions; 
 
(b) 
carrying out a socio-economic assessment to verify the impact of the Matrouh Resource 
Management Project (MRMP-I), to provide detailed information on current and potential off-farm 
incomes, alternate land use practices, input and output costs of production, poverty levels and living 
conditions; 
 
(c) 
carrying out: (i) a carbon flux assessment including, 
inter alia
,
a
review of similar 
applications in carbon sequestration in dryland areas; (ii) an assessment of the potential for the use of 
these applications in Egypt and the capacity for carbon sequestration under different types of vegetation, 
cropping patterns and alternate land use practices; 
 
(d) 
preparation of an incremental cost analysis to quantify the share to be apportioned to GEF 
of the total Project output and costs based on the global benefits to be achieved by the Project; 
 
(e) 
conducting consultative meetings with and workshops for local and national-level 
stakeholders to obtain their inputs concerning proposed conservation measures, alternative livelihood 
options, and suggested policy level interventions; and 
 
(f) 
providing training to personnel at the national and local level, focusing on issues of 
biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration and other related areas to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Bank shall utilize the Grant to finance the following expenditures in connection with the 
services of individual consultants or any consulting firm engaged to assist in carrying out the Activities 
(the “Consultants”): 
 
(a)  remuneration, per diem and other allowances; 
 
(b) 
travel expenses; and  
 
(c) 
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by the  
Consultants. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants. 
Page  4
H.E. Fayza Aboulnaga   
 
 
- 2- 
    
                                                TF028349 
 
4. 
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 15, 2002.  After that date, the 
Bank may, at any time, cancel the remaining balance of the Grant. 
 
5. 
The engagement and supervision of Consultants required to assist in the carrying out of the 
Activities shall 
be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures. 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals 
or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities. 
 
7. 
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities.  Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may, at any time, suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
 
8. 
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
Collaboration between the Recipient and the Bank
9. 
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, such counterpart personnel 
to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of the Bank and the Consultants as are set forth below.  If 
any member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by the 
Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may request 
the replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such 
request. Counterpart personnel shall include: 
 
(a) 
the deputy general director of MRPM-I; 
 
(b) 
the head and staff of the monitoring and evaluation unit of MRPM-I; 
 
(c) 
the director and researchers of the Matrouh Adaptive Research Center; and 
 
(d) 
the soil and water management unit. 
 
10. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Activities financed by the Grant, the Recipient shall make 
available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, facilities and equipment available at the 
MRPM-I headquarters or at the Matrouh Adaptive Research Center, as set out below: 
 
Page  5
H.E. Fayza Aboulnaga   
 
 
- 3- 
    
                                                TF028349 
 
10.1. Data
(a) 
Listing and description of indigenous species (fauna and flora) available in the Project 
area; 
 
(b)  Geographic Information System (GIS) data for the Project area; and 
 
(c) 
Results of technical, economic and social survey and case studies for Project 
interventions. 
 
10.2. Facilities
Office Space at the headquarters of MRMP-I. 
 
10.3 Services
Office support services including typing, photocopying, email, fax, telephone and local 
transportation services related to the Project. 
 
The Recipient and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the 
Activities undertaken pursuant to this Letter Agreement, any reports prepared by the Consultants and the 
implementation of any recommendations or conclusions of those reports. Such report shall not be made 
public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Bank. 
 
