Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7161-EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Matruh Resource Management Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 21, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7161-EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 2003, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
EGYPT (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF 
Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the Bank, acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environmental Facility, and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to 
make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower (in such capacity, the 
Recipient) in an amount equal to five million one hundred seventy thousand United 
States Dollars (US$5,170,000) to assist in financing Part G of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant Agreement;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and 
 
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
(a) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Paragraph 22 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows: 
 
“22. “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread of 0.50% in respect 
of  the initial Loan Currency, provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount of the Loan, such fixed spread 
shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Work Program and Budget” or “AWPB” means the annual 
work program and budget for determining the LC Activities (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and the criteria and procedures set out in the PIP (as this term is hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(b) 
“BOT” means the Board of Trustees to be established by the Borrower’s 
MALR (as this term is hereinafter defined), in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph D.1 (f) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“CAP” means a community action plan to be developed and 
implemented by each local community in the Project Area (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and the criteria and procedures set out in the PIP (as this term is hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(d) 
“EEAA” means the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency established 
by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 631, dated December 30, 1982, or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(e) 
“EMP” means the Borrower’s environmental management plan for the 
Project submitted by MALR (as this term is hereinafter defined) and EEAA to the Bank 
on June 12, 2002 which: (i) sets out appropriate mitigation, monitoring, institutional and 
management measures required for the implementation of the Project to eliminate 
adverse environmental impacts, offset such impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels; 
(ii) summarizes the procedures for the environmental screening, basic design, 
implementation and monitoring of the mitigating measures under the Project; and 
(iii) constitutes an integral part of the PIP (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(f) 
“EMU” means the environmental management unit, established within 
the Governorate of Matruh by virtue of the Borrower’s Central Agency of Organization 
and Administration Circular No. 8, of 1982, or any successor thereto;  
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(g) 
“End-user” means any individual or group of individuals from the local 
communities within the Project Area (as this term is hereinafter defined) to whom MALR 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) proposes to make or has made an LC Grant under 
Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), B.1(a), B.2(a), C.1, or D of the Project or a Micro-finance Sub-loan 
(as both these terms are hereinafter defined); 
 
(h) 
“Environmental Guidelines Manual” means the Borrower’s manual 
submitted by MALR (as this term and hereinafter defined) and EEAA to the Bank on 
June 12, 2002, which: (i) sets out the procedures for the environmental screening, 
environmental mitigation measures, basic design, implementation and environmental 
monitoring under the Project; and (ii) constitutes an integral part of the PIP (as this term 
is hereinafter defined); 
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“LC Activity” means a project consisting of the carrying out of an 
activity described under Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), B.1(a), B.2(a), C.1 or D of the Project; 
 
(k) 
“LC Grant” means a local community grant made by the Borrower, 
through MALR (as this term is hereinafter defined), to an End-user to finance, in whole 
or in part, the carrying out of an LC Activity under Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), B.1(a), B.2(a), 
C.1 or D of the Project; 
 
(l) 
“MALR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Land 
Reclamation, or any successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“Micro-finance Sub-loan” means a loan made by the Borrower, through 
MALR, to an End-user to finance Micro-finance Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter 
defined), under Part E.1 of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph D of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Micro-finance Sub-project” means an activity carried out under Part E.1 
of the Project; 
 
(o) 
“Micro-finance Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement entered into 
by MALR and an End-user for the purpose of making a Sub-loan under Part E.1 of the 
Project, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor 
thereof; 
 
(q) 
“NCC” means the National Coordination Committee for the Project, to 
be established and maintained within MALR, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(r) 
“PCC” means the Project Coordination Committee to be maintained 
within MALR in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be maintained within 
MALR in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“PIP” means the Project implementation plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower’s MALR and EEAA and to be submitted to the Bank pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement, setting out the principles and procedures governing 
the implementation of the Project, such plan to, 
inter alia
:
(i) define the respective roles 
and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) set 
forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the Project; (iii) identify the 
procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project; (iv) set out the details of the EMP; (v) set out the details of 
the Environmental Guidelines Manual; (vi) set out details for the implementation of 
adaptive research activities under Part C.3 of the Project; and (vii) set forth the Process 
Framework (as this term is hereinafter defined), including the principles governing the 
participation of the local communities in biodiversity conservation and resource 
management in the Project Area (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(u) 
“POM” means the Project operation manual to be prepared by the 
Borrower’s MALR and to be submitted to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.01(d) of this Agreement, setting out the detailed procedures for procurement and 
financial management of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the auditing, accounting and 
financial reporting arrangements for the Project; 
 
(v)
 
“Process Framework” means the framework, prepared by the Borrower’s 
MALR and EEAA and submitted to the Bank on
 
June 12, 2002, which establishes a 
process by which members of potentially affected local communities participate in the 
design of Activities or Sub-projects, the determination of measures necessary to achieve 
resettlement policy objectives, and the implementation and monitoring of relevant Project 
activities;
 
(w) 
“Project Area” means the Northwest Coastal Zone of the Borrower’s 
territories, extending from the Libyan border in the West to Ras El-Hikma in the East; 
 
(x) 
“Protected Area” means any of the two areas designated for conservation 
within Al Qasr and Saloum at the Northwest Coastal Zone of the Borrower’s territories, 
the boundaries of which shall be defined during the course of the Project by EEAA, in 
accordance with the laws of the Borrower;
 
(y) 
“Research Grant” means a grant under Part C.3 of the Project made by 
the Borrower through MALR by virtue of a Research Grant Agreement (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) to a Research Operator (as this term is hereinafter defined) pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraphs E and F of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(z) 
“Research Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into between 
the Borrower’s MALR and a Research Operator (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs E and F of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(aa) 
“Research Operator” means a research entity eligible to receive a 
Research Grant for a Research Sub-project (as this term is hereinafter defined) prepared 
under Part C.3 of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs E and F of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“Research Sub-project” means a specific research activity to be carried 
out by a Research Operator, utilizing the proceeds of a Research Grant, pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraphs E and F of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
 
(cc) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; each a “Special Account”. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twelve million 
three hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars (US$12,350,000),
 
as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made by an End-user under a Micro-finance Sub-project, an LC Activity or a 
Research Sub-project, to meet the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required 
for such Activity or Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A 
through F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar referred to in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may through MALR, for the purposes of each of: 
(i) Parts A, B, C, D, and F; and (ii) Part E of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a 
separate special deposit account in the National Bank of Egypt on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure, or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate as defined in paragraph 47 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on  March 1
st
 and September 1
st
 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
Page  9
-
7
-
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance for the purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments 
with respect to the Loan.  
 
Section 2.11. 
MALR is designated as the representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall through MALR, carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, 
economic, engineering, environmental, financial, management and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through MALR, carry out Parts A through F of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the EMP, 
Environmental Guidelines Manual, PIP, POM and Process Framework. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A through F of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through MALR: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  10
-
8
-
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower shall: (a) through MALR: (i) ensure that LC 
Activities and Micro-finance Sub-projects are appraised and implemented in accordance 
with the provisions of the PIP, the EMP, the Environmental Guidelines Manual and the 
Process Framework; and (ii) ensure that any land or right of way required for the carrying 
out of the proposed LC Activities or Micro-finance Sub-projects shall not involve the 
involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement of occupants or owners of 
such land and that such land shall be provided in a voluntary manner pursuant to a 
memorandum of understanding between the owner/occupant of such land and MALR; 
and (b) through EEAA: (i) ensure that the environmental screening of any LC Activities 
or Micro-finance Sub-projects shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 
the PIP, the EMP, the Environmental Guidelines Manual and the Process Framework in 
order to ensure that any required environmental assessment shall be carried out in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) supervise the preparation of environmental 
assessments and ensure that environmental mitigating and monitoring measures of LC 
Activities and Micro-finance Sub-projects are properly implemented as outlined in the 
EMP and the Environmental Guidelines Manual.
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall, through MALR, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MALR: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
through MALR: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MALR, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Page  12
-
10 -
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that: 
 
(i) 
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IFAD 
Loan or the GEF Trust Fund Grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of Part G of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the IFAD Loan Agreement or the Grant Agreement as the 
case may be, or 
 
(B) 
the IFAD Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph 
(ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement in accordance with Article XII of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement has been established; 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
(b) the 
Borrower’s MALR has appointed individuals, whose qualifications 
and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank, to assume the responsibilities of director 
general, deputy director general, head of the procurement unit and head of each of 
community development unit, natural resources management unit and productive 
activities development unit referred to in paragraph A.3(a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
The Borrower’s EEAA has established within the PCU the Biodiversity 
Conservation Unit referred to in paragraph A.3(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with 
staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the PIP; 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has, through MALR, submitted to the Bank, the PIP and 
the POM in form and in substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(e) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(f) 
the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
8
Adly Street 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Page  14
-
12 -
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 
 
 
(202) 578 9711 
 
(International 
Cooperation 
Sector)   (202) 
391 
5167 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Nabil Fahmy 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  15
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods under Parts A 
 
 1,112,600 
 
100% of foreign 
through 
F 
of 
 
     expenditures; 
the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
100% of local  
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost); and 85% of other 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
 
 1,662,900 
 
85% 
 
and training under 
Parts A through F 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Micro-finance Sub-loans 
 1,500,000 
 
50% of 
 
amounts disbursed 
by MALR 
 
(4) 
LC Grants 
 
 
 6,294,100 
 
85% of 
under Parts A.1(b), 
 
 
 
 
amounts disbursed 
 A.2(a), 
B.1(a), 
     by 
MALR 
 B.2(a), 
C.1 
 
or D of the Project 
 
(5) 
Research Grants 
 
      503,400 
 
100% of  
Part C.3 of the Project 
 
 
 
 
amounts disbursed 
by MALR 
(6) Incremental 
 
 
Operating Costs  
 
     625,000 
 
50% 
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
 
 
     123,500 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Premia for Interest 
 
                0 
 
Amount due under 
 
 Rate 
Caps 
     Section 
2.09(c) 
of 
 and 
Interest 
Rate 
Collars    this 
Agreement 
Page  16
-
14 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(9) 
Unallocated 
 
 
     528,500 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL
 
12,350,000
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by 
the PCU in connection with the carrying out of Parts A through F of the Project, on 
account of office furniture and supplies, audit costs, local transportation and the costs of 
PCU staff selected in accordance with Part C.3(a) in Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
agreement, excluding salaries and/or allowances of officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (ii) Micro-finance Sub-loans, LC Grants and 
Research Grants costing less than $250,000 equivalent each;
 
(iii) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(v) Incremental Operating Costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the livelihood of the 
disadvantaged rural population living in the Project Area, through community 
development and capacity building to access services for their welfare and increase their 
incomes while strengthening their capacity to conserve, rehabilitate and use natural 
resources in a sustainable manner; and (ii) to address global environmental concerns in a 
day-to-day management of resources, as well as mainstream environmental dimensions 
into overall planning and implementation of development activities in the Project Area. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Community Development
1. 
Capacity Building of Community
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to local community 
representatives and other community members for: (i) designing CAPs and Annual Work 
Programs and Budgets; (ii) acquiring negotiating skills and management capacities; 
(iii) establishing the process of monitoring the implementation and evaluating the results; 
(iv) developing internal and external information and communication systems; and 
(v) establishing a suitable legal framework for local communities to become legal entities 
in charge of community development. 
 
(b) 
Provision of LC Grants on a cost-sharing or full-cost basis for demand 
driven community development initiatives. 
 
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
2. Strengthening 
o
f
Women’s Development Capacity
(a) 
Provision of LC Grants to finance: 
 
(i) 
the carrying out of: (A) workshops for integrating women in the 
participatory planning process; (B) a five-year program 
supporting literacy classes for women and education for girls; 
and (C) workshops for women on nutrition, hygiene and health 
sensitization; 
 
(ii) 
the carrying out of a program to assist women in reducing work 
load for domestic chores, through the provision of labor-saving 
assets such as hand-pumps and carts; 
 
Page  18
-
16 -
(iii) 
the construction, equipping and furnishing of social centers to 
serve as venues for literacy classes, training programs, 
promoting environment awareness and other related community 
activities; and 
 
(iv) 
the construction of latrines and sanitation facilities. 
 
(b) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
Part B
:
Natural Resource Management
1. 
Land and Water Resource Management
(a) 
Provision of LC Grants to finance:  
 
(i) 
the carrying out of environmentally sound water harvesting and 
storage techniques and infrastructure works, including the 
construction of underground cisterns and reservoirs; and 
 
(ii) 
the design and implementation of sustainable watershed 
management plans, including the construction of small earth, 
stone and cemented dikes. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out a program for the maintenance of water harvesting 
structures, including the preparation of user-friendly maintenance manuals through the 
provision of consultants services and training to local communities. 
 
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
2. Rangeland 
Management
(a) 
Provision of LC Grants to finance the development and implementation 
of a strategy for the sustained use of communal resources, based on a community-
managed approach to rangeland rehabilitation and utilization, including the establishment 
of pilot grazing management units and training community-selected facilitators for 
managing vegetation as well as animals, with selected reseeding and shrub plantations. 
 
(b) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part B.2 of the Project. 
 
Page  19
-
17 -
Part C
:
Productive Activities Development
1. 
Agriculture and Livestock Services
Provision of LC Grants to finance: 
 
(a) 
the carrying out of a program for training community-selected facilitators 
in each of the 38 local communities to serve as resource persons within 
their community to handle agriculture and livestock advisory and 
training demands; and 
 
(b) 
the carrying out of on-farm demonstrations, workshops and field trips on 
improved farm technologies related to field crops, horticulture and tree 
crops and livestock. 
 
2. Off-farm 
Income-generating 
Activities
Provision of goods, technical advisory services and training to increase and 
diversify rural household income and develop a handicraft and cottage agro-processing 
industry through the provision of access to market information, improving the quality of 
the products, facilitating the provision of raw materials for the producers, connecting 
producers to markets, and promoting community-based and economically viable 
organizations for the sustainability of these activities after Project completion.
 
3. Adaptive 
Research
Support to carry out adaptive research activities to develop appropriate 
technologies for barley, home garden vegetables, livestock production, horticulture and 
tree crops, land and water management, range management and post-harvest and agro-
processing, through the provision of Research Grants. 
 
Part D:
Rural Roads
Provision of LC Grants to finance the surfacing of about 135 km unpaved 
existing feeder roads to connect the coastal zones and the inland areas with the existing 
network of roads. 
 
Part E:
Rural Micro-finance
1. 
Carrying out of Micro-finance Sub-projects consisting of a range of income-
generating activities within the local community, through the provision of Micro-finance 
Sub-loans. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training for the setting up of a 
micro-finance credit retailing system. 
Page  20
-
18 -
Part F:
Project Management
Support, through the provision of equipment, technical advisory services and 
training, for the efficient and effective management of the Project in the following areas: 
(i) Project administration, promotion and coordination; (ii) setting up an information and 
communication system; (iii) carrying out monitoring and evaluation exercises for the 
Project; and (iv) preparing a feasibility study for the extension of participatory 
approaches to areas such as the Siwa oasis. 
 
Part G
:
Environmental Development Activities
1. 
Capacity Building of Community
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to carry out 
integration of environmental awareness into community capacity building activities 
through: (i) community orientation, mobilization and participation; and (ii) introduction 
of environmental education in schools and at 38 local community centers. 
 
(b) 
Provision of LC Grants on a cost-sharing or full-cost basis for 
environmental-related, demand driven community development initiatives. 
 
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part G.1 of the Project. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of Women’s Development Capacity
(a) 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services to carry out 
an environmental awareness program by assisting women to achieve sustainable 
management of community resources, including carrying out of an energy consumption 
and kitchen practices survey to improve the kitchen environment and ensuring 
sustainability of energy supply.  
 
(b) 
Provision of LC Grants to provide alternative and efficient energy 
technologies for cooking. 
 
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part G.2 of the Project. 
 
3. 
Land and Water Resource Management
(a) 
Provision of LC Grants to finance the
 
carrying out of a program for the 
protection of the watershed upper catchment areas with seeding or plantation of 
vegetative cover or water and soil retention devices. 
 
(b) 
Support to carry out adaptive research to establish water run-off 
coefficients and to investigate water utilization techniques, through the provision of 
Research Grants. 
Page  21
-
19 -
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part G.3 of the Project. 
 
4. Rangeland 
Management
(a) 
Provision of Research Grants to finance the carrying out of adaptive 
research activities for the rehabilitation and efficient utilization of rangeland resources.
 
(b) 
Provision of LC Grants to carry out grazing management planning, and 
establishing four (4) protected plots for managing vegetation with selected reseeding and 
shrub plantation. 
 
(c) 
Provision of goods, training and advisory services for the implementation 
of this Part G.4 of the Project. 
 
5. 
Bio-diversity Conservation and EMP Implementation
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services, goods and training for: 
(i) 
implementation of the EMP and the Environmental Guidelines Manual; (ii) 
monitoring and updating records on the status of biodiversity in the Project Area; (iii) 
enhancing local capacity, including capacity of the Matruh Governorate, to undertake 
cross-sectoral ecosystem planning and management and increase local knowledge and 
awareness of biodiversity conservation; and (iv) the
 
carrying out of a program for the 
establishment of two Protected Areas through integration of local communities in the 
management plans, including activities related to protection and management of the 
Protected Areas and activities related to the Process Framework. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out the construction of visitors centers, through the execution of 
works, to serve as venues for literacy classes, training programs, promoting 
environmental awareness and other related community activities.  
 
(c) 
Provision of LC Grants to finance the creation of community managed 
biodiversity hotspots and promote eco-tourism activities in the Project Area. 
 
6. 
Support for Off-farm Income Generating Activities
Provision of technical advisory services to investigate global environmental 
benefits and environmental sustainability related activities, including access to market 
information to develop appropriate technologies for medicinal and herbal plants, through 
the provision of Research Grants. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  22
-
20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 1 and September 1 
 
Beginning September 1, 2008  
 
through September 1, 2019 
4.17% 
 
On March 1, 2020 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
Page  23
-
21 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  24
-
22 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works under Parts A through F of the Project
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), B.1(a), B.2(a), C.1 and D of the Project, 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or more, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $400,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, including the clarifications set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 4 required to comply with the provisions of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
23 -
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, all in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract which should 
be procured as an extension of an existing contract, and costing $400,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, and goods which are of a proprietary nature or must be purchased 
from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or procured from a 
particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee and costing $250,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), B.1(a), B.2(a), C.1 and D of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of 
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
5. Community 
Participation
Works required for Parts A.1(b), A.2(a)(iv), B.1(a) and B.2(a) of the Project to be 
undertaken by community members shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  26
-
24 -
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 under Part B of this Section; (ii) the first 
five contracts for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 4 under Part C of this Section; and (iii) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 under Part C of this Section, and estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures or the 
execution of any contract under direct contracting procedures, the 
Borrower shall, through MALR, provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall, through MALR, provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants under Parts A through F of the Project
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  27
-
25 -
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and PCU staff
 
shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) Part A, B, C and E of the Project may be selected 
on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.
 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
Page  28
-
26 -
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists and the 
first five contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants: (i) to be selected on a sole source basis; (ii) estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; or (iii) for PCU staff, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists 
and the first five contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  29
-
27 -
Annex  
to 
Schedule 4 
 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods and works procured under the National Competitive Bidding 
procedure shall comply with the following: 
 
1. 
Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the Guidelines who 
proposes to provide goods produced in, or services supplied from, any such country shall 
be eligible to bid for such contracts. 
 
2. 
Tenders shall be advertised with no less that thirty (30) days for bid preparation. 
 
3. 
Government-owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they are legally and 
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not selected or hired by 
the supervising or reporting authority, and shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
4. 
Bidders shall be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail. 
 
5. 
Bids shall be opened in public; that is, bidders or their representatives shall be 
allowed to be present at the place where bids are to be opened and both envelopes, if two 
are submitted, shall be opened at the same time.  The time for the bid opening shall be the 
same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or promptly thereafter; and shall be 
announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the invitation to bid. 
 
6. 
Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria disclosed in the bid 
documents and quantified in monetary terms, and no provision for preferential treatment 
for national companies shall be applied. 
 
7. 
The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid, and  no negotiation shall take place. 
 
8. Arabic 
translat
ion of the Bank’s standard bidding documents may be used. 
Page  30
-
28 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program for Parts A through F of the Project 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest MALR with the overall responsibility of Parts A 
through F of the Project implementation.  MALR shall, not later than six (6) months after 
the Effective Date, establish and thereafter maintain the
 
NCC, which shall be chaired by 
the National Coordinator to be appointed by MALR and shall include, as members, 
representatives from the EEAA and the director of foreign agriculture relations of 
MALR.  The NCC shall 
inter alia
:
(i) provide support and guidance on policy and 
strategy issues consistent with national programming concerns; (ii) facilitate, at the 
national level, the measures required to be taken for carrying out activities under Parts A 
through F of the Project; and (iii) monitor the progress in the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
At the Governorate level, the Borrower’s MALR shall maintain the PCC, whose 
membership shall, in addition to the existing members, include the Project Director 
General (Chair), the head of the Biodiversity Conservation Unit, representatives of the 
health, education and social services, the EMU and the local communities.  The PCC 
shall be responsible for: (i) providing a forum for sharing information with the relevant 
agencies of the Borrower covering the Project Area; (ii) ensuring coordination in 
planning and implementation between CAPs and Project activities, and the Governorate 
investment and sectoral plans; (iii) resolving issues which may arise during 
implementation; and (iv) monitoring the performance of the Project. 
 
3. 
(a) 
A PCU which the Borrower shall maintain within MALR, with 
professional staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, shall be responsible for assisting MALR in the 
implementation of the Project. The PCU shall ensure the proper implementation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the PIP, the POM, the EMP, 
Environmental Guidelines Manual and the Process Framework. The PCU shall, 
inter alia
,
be responsible for planning, procurement, financial control, monitoring the progress in 
the implementation of the Project, and reporting in accordance with indicators agreed 
upon with the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The PCU shall coordinate the Project activities through five Sub-
Regional Support Centers supported by research carried out by a Research Operator and 
six (6) implementing units to be established within the PCU, to be regrouped as follows: 
(i) Community Development and Gender Unit (CDU) under the director of Community 
Development; (ii) Land and Water Management Unit, Range Management Unit, and 
Biodiversity Conservation Unit under the director of Natural Resources Management; 
and (iii) Agricultural and Livestock Services Unit and a supervisor in charge of 
monitoring the implementation of off-farm productive activities and the micro-finance 
Sub-loan scheme, under the director for Productive Activities Development. 
4. 
For the purpose of ensuring consistency of unit work programs with AWPBs, 
reviewing unit programs reports, and ensuring facilitation, mediation and conflict 
Page  31
-
29 -
resolution among units, MALR shall establish a Project Management Committee (PMC) 
comprising the managers of each unit, the head of the financial management unit and the 
directors of the Sub-Regional Support Centers. 
 
B. 
CAP and AWPB
1. 
The Borrower’s MALR, shall cause each of the local communities within the 
Project Area to prepare in consultation with the CDU, a CAP outlining the general 
framework for the activities to be carried out in a given local community within the 
Project Area.  For the execution of the CAP, an AWPB shall be prepared by each local 
community in consultation with the CDU, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in conformity with the PIP, Process Framework, EMP and Environmental Guidelines 
Manual. 
 
2. 
For purposes of the formulation and implementation of CAPs and AWPBs, the 
local communities shall follow the procedures and criteria set forth in the PIP, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
 
C. 
LC Grants: Procedures, Criteria and Technical Audit
1. 
The Borrower, through MALR, shall ensure that an LC Grant: (i) shall be made 
in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP and in conformity with 
the Bank’s social and environmental safeguard policies as specified in the Process 
Framework, the EMP and the Environmental Guidelines Manual; and (ii) involves a 
community for which the Borrower’s MALR has submitted to the Bank a CAP and an 
AWPB. 
 
2. 
MALR shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the proceeds of the loan, allocated from time to time to Category (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be made available 
to each local community on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank including: (i) the 
percentage of low income households in the community; (ii) the total population of the 
community; (iii) the total amount of previous investments in the community; (iv) the 
location of the community; and (v) the community’s growth potential; 
 
(b) 
any land or right of way required for the carrying out of the proposed LC 
Activities shall not involve the involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement 
of occupants or owners of such land; and that such land shall be provided in a voluntary 
manner pursuant to a memorandum of understanding between the owner/occupant of 
such land and MALR; 
 
(c) the AWPBs of a local community are prepared by the End-users in 
accordance with the guidelines for AWPB preparation defined in the PIP, and constitute 
the annual implementation of the CAPs prepared by the local community; and 
 
(d) the said AWPB shall be reviewed and approved by the local community’s 
representatives pursuant to the eligibility criteria defined in the PIP. 
Page  32
-
30 -
3. 
In accordance to the PIP, a technical audit of the LC Activities shall be carried 
out on an annual basis not later than November 30 of each year, by an independent 
professional, acceptable to the Bank, to cover a random sample of not less than 25% of 
the cost of LC Activities. The objective of the technical audit is to seek a professional 
opinion on: (i) the use of the LC Grants; (ii) the quality of the works; (iii) the supporting 
documents; (iv) the use of works and equipment; (v) the reliability of the unit cost data 
base; and (vi) the transparency of the procurement process. 
 
D. Micro-Finance 
Sub-loans
1. 
For the purpose of providing Micro-finance Sub-loans under Part E of the 
Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
through MALR, make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with a 
technical assistance provider for a four-year period to set up the pilot credit 
retailing scheme provided under Part E.2 of the Project;
 
(b) 
through MALR, ensure that Micro-finance Sub-loans shall be made in 
accordance with criteria and the procedures specified in the PIP including, 
inter 
alia,
 that: (i) a Micro-finance Sub-loan shall be made in kind or in cash; (ii) a 
Micro-finance Sub-loan shall directly benefit home-bound Bedouin women and 
economically disadvantaged rural population; (iii) only management fees, 
exclusive of interest, shall be charged as in a revolving fund; (iv) a guaranteed 
repayment shall be ensured through means other than land title or other physical 
collateral; and (v) ensure that any land or right of way required for the carrying 
out of the proposed Micro-finance Sub-projects shall not involve the involuntary 
acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement of occupants or owners of such 
land; and that such land shall be provided in a voluntary manner pursuant to a 
memorandum of understanding between the owner/occupant of such land and 
MALR; 
 
(c) 
cause MALR, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, to 
enter into an agreement with a technical assistance provider, whose terms of 
reference shall include the obligation to assist MALR in the carrying out of Part 
E.1 of the Project, on terms satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, 
inter 
alia, 
provisions regarding: (i) the amount of the Micro-finance Sub-loans to be 
made available; (ii) disbursement mechanisms to be followed; (iii) the guidelines 
for the extension of Micro-finance Sub-loans, including the maximum limit for 
Micro-finance Sub-loans for individuals and End-user groups, and the type of 
repayment guarantees; (iv) the amount of funding to cover operating costs, 
including salaries of the personnel of the retailing scheme to be established under 
Part E.2 of the Project, as well as the transport and office facilities to be made 
available to carry out the operation; (v) the estimated time frame for the retailing 
scheme to reach the break-even point (based on an estimated minimum number 
and amount of Micro-finance Sub-loans); (vi) the operating costs of the retailing 
scheme at that point, including provision for default guarantee, but excluding the 
cost of capital through a revolving fund; (vii) the management fees to be charged 
to the End-users on the basis of the operating costs; (viii) the requirement of 
Page  33
-
31 -
setting up, by the technical assistance provider, of a fund for repayment-default 
guarantee and the identification of institutional options to continue the making of 
Micro-finance Sub-loans after the break-even point has been reached; and 
(ix) furnishing quarterly reports to the PCU on the status of activities under Part 
E
of
the Project; 
 
(d) 
cause MALR to establish, not later than six (6) months after the Effective 
Date, an account in the National Bank of Egypt on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure, 
or attachment (the Account), to be managed by the technical assistance provider.  
The Account shall be operated as follows: 
 
(i) 
MALR shall cause the technical assistance provider to deposit 
into the Account all amounts received by it in debt service 
payments on Micro-finance Sub-loans extended by it, after 
deducting therefrom the management fees which shall be 
deposited in a separate account to contribute to the establishment 
of a guarantee or insurance fund against repayment default; 
 
(ii) 
withdrawal from the Account shall be for the purpose of 
financing Micro-finance Sub-loans; 
 
(iii) 
the technical assistance provider shall be responsible for 
identifying credit-worthy End-users with whom it shall enter into 
Micro-finance Sub-loan Agreements; and 
 
(iv) 
a statement as to the status of the Account shall be prepared, on a 
quarterly basis, by the National Bank of Egypt where the 
Account shall have been opened. 
 
(e) 
cause the technical assistance provider to: (i) prepare the records, 
accounts and financial statements in connection with Part E.1 of the Project for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) furnish to the Bank, through the PCU, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to above for such year as so audited, and an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank, through the PCU, such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request; and (iv) ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to above; 
and 
 
(f) 
cause MALR to establish, not later than six (6) months after the 
Effectiveness Date, a Board of Trustees (BOT), with membership, functions and 
responsibilities, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the overall 
Page  34
-
32 -
management and oversight of the credit retailing operation. The BOT shall 
consist
 of representatives of the Borrower’s MALR, the Matruh Governorate and  
the National Bank of Egypt holding the Account, the technical assistance 
provider, representatives of the local communities and/or the End-user
 
groups.
 
E. 
Eligibility Criteria for Research Sub-projects
MALR shall ensure that no expenditures shall be made under Category (5), set 
out in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule1 to this Agreement, unless the Borrower’s 
MALR is satisfied that the Research Sub-project sought to be financed meets the 
eligibility criteria specified below and the procedures, terms and conditions specified in 
Section F of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the Research Sub-project shall be financially and technically viable and 
shall meet the criteria specified in the PIP; and 
 
(b) 
the Research Sub-project shall comply with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection, 
as well as the applicable social and environmental policies of the Bank. 
 
F. 
Terms and Conditions of Research Grants
1. 
Research Sub-projects shall be carried out pursuant to Research Grant 
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower’s MALR and a Research Operator 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall, 
inter alia
,
include: 
 
(a) 
the obligation to carry out the Research Sub-project in accordance with 
the Research Grant Agreement and the PIP, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound environmental, agricultural, technical, financial, and managerial 
standards, and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Research Sub-project; 
 
(b) 
the right of the Borrower’s MALR to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the equipment, experimentation plots and laboratories, 
sites, services and training included in the Research Sub-project, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(c) 
the right of the Borrower’s MALR to obtain from the Research Operator 
all information, as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request, regarding the 
administration, operation and financial conditions of the Research Sub-project; and 
 
(d) 
the right of the Borrower’s MALR to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Research Operator to use the proceeds of the Research Grant for the Research Sub-
project upon the failure by the Research Operator to perform any of its obligations under 
its Research Grant Agreement, such failure to be determined by internal and external 
evaluations carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP. 
 
Page  35
-
33 -
G. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MALR: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  36
-
34 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (4), (5), and (6) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts A, 
B, C, D and F of the Project and Category (3) set forth in said table in respect of Part E of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $800,000 in 
respect of the Special Account (A) for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project and an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 in respect of the Special Account (B) for Part E thereof, 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$400,000 in respect of the Special Account (A) for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project 
and an amount equivalent to $150,000 in respect of the Special Account (B) for Part E 
thereof, until (i) in respect of the Special Account (A) for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the 
Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Categories (1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 , and (ii) in respect of the Special Account (B) for Part E of the 
Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Category (3) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part E of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
through MALR
 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower’s MALR shall have requested. 
Page  37
-
35 -
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the  
Borrower shall through MALR furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall  
through MALR furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
B
orrower’s MALR shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower through MALR out of the respective 
Special Account, the Borrower shall through MALR, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower’s MALR
 
shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account for Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Page  38
-
36 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  39
-
37 -
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\EGYPT\SecondMATROUH\LA-19DecNegotiatedDraft(Board).doc 
February 26, 2003 7:09 PM
 
