Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7259 -CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Labor Reform 
and Social Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7259-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated September 11, 2003 (Loan No. 7193-CO), the Bank has provided 
assistance to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of 
actions, objectives and policies for labor and social reform, covering social protection, 
labor law, public health and education (the Program), as such program was described in 
the letter, dated August 6, 2003, from the Borrower to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated July 30, 2004, from the Borrower: 
(i) describing the Program as revised since the date of the letter referred to in (A) above, 
which Program consists of actions taken under the first phase referred to in (A) above, 
actions taken as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the Second Phase of the 
Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the 
future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and 
(iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by 
making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the Second Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “
Bogotá Como Vamos
”
means a civil society based reporting and 
feedback initiative being implemented in the Borrower’s municipality of Bogotá; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“CONPES” means an authoritative statement of government policy and 
guidelines issued by the Colombian Executive’s National Council of Social and 
Economic Policy; 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(d) “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department; 
 
(e) 
“DPT” means a vaccine package for immunization against diphtheria, 
pertussis and tetanus; 
 
(f) “ICBF” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the 
Borrower’s Institute for Family Welfare; 
 
(g) 
“Law 715” means the Borrower’s “
Ley por la cual se dictan normas 
orgánicas en materia de recursos y competencias de conformidad con los artículos 151, 
288, 365 y 357 (Acto Legislativo 01 de 2001) de la Constitución Política y se dictan otras 
disposiciones para organizar la prestación de servicios de educación entre otros
”
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 21, 2001; 
 
(h) “PAI” 
means 
Programa Ampliado de Inmunizaciones
,
the Borrower’s 
expanded program of immunizations; 
 
(i) “SISBEN” 
means
 Sistema de Identificación y Selección de Beneficiarios 
de Programas Sociales, 
 a targeting instrument for social public expenditures under Law 
715, which system ranks households according to several socio economic variables.  
Families classifed as SISBEN 1 are generally those with earnings below the extreme 
poverty line; families classified as SISBEN 2 are generally those with earnings above the 
extreme poverty line but below the poverty line; and 
 
(j) 
“Triple Viral” means a vaccine package for immunization against 
measles, rubella and mumps. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
Page  5
-
4
-
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $200,000,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Second Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(d)  
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank 
has received the payment of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall be 
payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
Page  6
-
5
-
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by 
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01
.
The Borrower
 
shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any measure or action specified in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program; and 
 
(b) 
an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action or policy listed in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, after consultation 
with the Borrower, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date February 2, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín 
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINHACIENDA 
    (571) 
350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
     (202) 
477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By  /s/ Alberto Carrasquilla 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Alberto Chueca Mora 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
WITNESS: 
 
By /s/  Santiago Montenegro Trujillo 
 
General Director 
 
National Planning Department 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
September 15, 2013 
12.50% 
 
March 15, 2014 
12.50% 
 
September 15,2014 
12.50% 
 
March 15, 2015 
13.75% 
 
September 15, 2015 
12.50% 
 
March 15, 2016 
12.50% 
 
September 15, 2016 
12.50% 
 
March 15, 2017 
   6.25% 
 
September 15, 2017 
   5.00% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Second Phase of the Program 
 
1. 
ICBF has: (a) increased coverage of nutritional programs (by causing 300,000 
additional children younger than 6 years old from families belonging to SISBEN 1 and 
SISBEN 2 to benefit from ICBF nutritional programs in 2003-2004); and (b) started 
evaluation of at least two of ICBF major assistance programs. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through PAI, has increased vaccine coverage for year 2003 to 
reach 90% DPT, 90% Triple Viral, and 90% polio coverage levels for the targeted infant 
population. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has expanded the subsidized health insurance coverage (
Régimen 
Subsidiado
)
by
at least 500,000 new affiliates, when compared to the number of said 
affiliates as of August, 2003. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has issued a CONPES establishing the policy framework and a 
plan of action for a national skills formation system which: (a) allows for more 
competition; and (b) separates the roles of regulation, accreditation and actual service 
provision within said system. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has attained an increase in the number of students enrolled in 
public basic and secondary education (grades 0 to 11) by at least 500,000 new students, 
when compared to the number of students so enrolled as of July 2002. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has: (a) started evaluating teacher performance; and (b) completed 
testing of student learning achievement in grade 9 covering competency in civics and 
science in at least 90%of the Borrower’s municipalities. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has started applying the “
Bogotá Como Vamos
”
model in two 
national social programs selected by DNP. 
 
