                                       Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 40152-MZ




                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                          ONA

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                     INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR9.9 MILLION
                          (US15 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                         FOR A

                          HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

                                      June 28,2007




Africa Region
HumanDevelopment
Country Department2

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     ExchangeRate Effective May 31,2007
                            Currency Unit = Meticais
                                    26.275 = US$1
                                 1.515US$ = SDRl

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                                January 1   - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAP       Africa Action Plan
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EA        Environmental Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
FM        Financial Management
FMR       Financial ManagementReport
GoM       Government ofMozambique
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HEIs      Higher Education Institutions
HEP       Higher Education Project
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       InformationCommunication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
ISR       Implementation Status Report
I S R I   Higher Institute for InternationalRelations
MDLN      Mozambique Distance Learning Network
MCT       Ministry of Science andTechnology
MEC       Ministry of Education and Culture
NRF       NationalResearchFund
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PRSP      Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
PSF       Provincial Scholarship Fund
QP        Quality Enhancement and InnovationFacility
TORS      Terms of Reference
WB        The World Bank
UEM       UniversidadeEduardo Mondlane (Eduardo Mondlane University)
UP        Universidade Pedag6gica( PedagogicalUniversity)

                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                         Vice President:      Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                                        Country Director      Michael Baxter
                                        Sector Manager:       Dzingai B.Mutumbuka
                                      Task Team Leader:       Xiaoyan Liang




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                      2


                                            REPUBLICOF MOZAMBIQUE

                             ADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT FORTHE
                                         HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

ProjectPaperData Sheet.....................................................................................................                 1

IINTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                          1

I1.BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING................2
A.Higher EducationProjectProgressto Date:Achievement ofObjectivesand
                                                                                                                                            2
B.Additional FinancingJustification andDescription.......................................................
Implementation Progress....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                            4

I11.PROPOSEDCHANGES..............................................................................................                           6

IV.CONSISTENCY WITHCAS OR CPS........................................................................                                       7

V ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN ORFINANCINGGAP ................ 8
  .
VI APPRAISAL OF RESTRUCTURED OR SCALED-UP PROJECTACTIVITIES....9
    .
VI1.EXPECTED OUTCOMES........................................................................................                               10

VI11  .BENEFITS             AND RISKS.........................................................................................              10

IX.FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING
Annex: Results Frameworkand Monitoring ....................................................................
........................................................................................................................................... 11
                                                                                                                                            12


                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT FOR THE

                          HIGHEREDUCATION PROJECT

                                ProjectPaper Data Sheet

Date: June 28, 2007                           Team Leader: Xiaoyan Liang
Country: Mozambique                           Sector Manager: Dzingai B.Mutumbuka
                    rEducationProject

Borrower: Republic o f Mozambique
Responsible agency: Ministryo f Education and Culture; Ministry o f Science and

r
Technology                                                                 -
Revisedestimated disbursements (BankFY/US$m)
                                    P P P




FY           I FY08          I FY09




Bank policies?



Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: Not applicable.



Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No.
           - - -                                                - - -
P                               For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [X ] Credit   [] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$15 m.):
       Proposed terms: IDA




IDA
Others


I.INTRODUCTION

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional financing credit in the amount o f US$15 million to the Republic o f
Mozambique Higher EducationProject (HEP, P069824, Cr. 3609).

2.       The proposed additional financing credit of US$15 million would be used: (1) to
cover a financing gap in the original project HEP stemming from cost overruns in the
area o f civil works and equipment and (2) to scale up successful on-going programs being
implemented under the project including the provincial scholarship fund and the
competitive Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF) and National Research
Fund(NRF).

3.       The additional financing credit will contribute to further achievement o f the
original Project Development Objectives (PDO): (i) enhance the internal efficiency
                                                        to
and expand the output of graduates; (ii)  to improve equitable access; and (iii) improve
                                                                               to
the quality of teaching and learning and the relevance o f the curriculum. The outcome
indicators have been revised upwards to reflect the scaled-up activities. The additional
financing credit will finance specific outputs including the completion o f the Higher
Institute o f International Relations (in Portuguese, Instituto Superior de ReZap%s
Internacionais) (ISRI) campus, the rehabilitation o f selected faculties and resource
centers, the fbrnishing and equipping o f new buildings constructed inthe original project,
20-30 research, quality improvement, and innovation projects, scholarships and basic
science programs benefiting students from disadvantaged background and students of
excellence inthe area o f science and technology.

4.       Implementation arrangements o f the additional financing credit will remain the
same as the original project. There are no major changes being proposed, except for the
financing parameter. The original project HEP requires counterpart contribution o f 15%
for local expenditures in civil works and goods, 5% for consultants, and 50% for
operating costs. The additional financing credit, however, i s expected to provide 100%
IDA financing based on the new financing parameter established for Mozambique, and
also in view of the Government's commitment to education manifested by its consistent
budgetaryallocationo f about 20% to education over the last few years.

5.       The additional financing credit will maintain the same partnership arrangements.
The Netherlands and the Swedish Embassies are supporting the Provincial Scholarship
Fund through parallel financing.      They have also agreed to continue financing the
students who are currently supported by the International Development Association
(IDA) after the IDA credit closes. There is no other co-financier except the Government
o fMozambique through in-kindcontributions.




                                              1

11.BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

6.       A key development constraint to Afhca's success in the global market is the
limited capacity to adopt and master advances in technology and innovation, thus
increasingproductivity. Mozambique i s no exception. Since the end o f civil war in early
1990s, Mozambique has made great strides inimproving the access to primary education.
Gross primary enrollment i s about 110% and net primary enrollment reached more than
80%. But progress inimproving post-primary education has been slower. The enrollment
pyramid in 2005 shows that while Mozambique has 4 million students in primary
education; it has less than 400,000 students in secondary education, and less than 30,000
in tertiary programs. The magnitude of demand for secondary, technical, and tertiary
education i s immense and it poses a major challenge to education policy makers in
Mozambique.

7.       InAugust 2000, the Government of Mozambique approved a ten-year Strategic
Plan for Higher Education in Mozambique.         The Plan aims to increase the access,
improve the equity, quality and relevance o f higher education in Mozambique, The
Government requested IDA'Ssupport for the implementation o f this Strategic Plan. The
HEP credit became effective on June 20, 2002 with a total IDA allocation o f SDR 47.1
million (US$60 million equivalent). The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) o f the
project are: (i) enhance the internal efficiency and expand the output o f graduates; (ii)
                to
to improve equitable access; and (iii) improve the quality o f teaching and learning and
                                      to
the relevance o f the curriculum.

8.       The HEP has four components. Part A o f the project (US$ 6.2 million) supports
system-wide reform and policy development, Part B (US$ 52 million) supports the
hrther development o f and investment in four public institutions and a Quality
Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF), and Part C (US$ 1.8) provides scholarships
for students from provinces other than Maputo to attend higher education institutions o f
their own choice. InNovember 2005, at the request o f the Government, Part D (US3
million) was reallocated to support initiatives in science and technology. The closing
date o f HEP was extended once from M a y 2007 to December 2007.


A. Higher EducationProject(HEP) Progressto Date:Achievement of Objectives
andImplementationProgress

9.       Progress towards achieving the PDOs is satisfactory to date. The targets for
access, efficiency, and equity have been achieved since 2005. By that time, the higher
education system in Mozambique had a total enrollment o f 28,298 students in 16 public
and private institutions, more than doubling the figures in 1999. Total annual intake
capacity was about 5,600 and the annual output (graduates) was about 3,700.           The
proportions o f students from the North and the Center had reached 17% and 29%. The
efficiency indicator, new admission over total enrollment ratio, increased to about 20%.
The remaining targets are more qualitative and aim at assessing the impact o f curricula



                                            2

change, especially inthe area o f ICT, on the teaching and learning process and on student
outcomes. The Ministry o f Education and Culture i s preparing to conduct studies to
investigate the project's impact on quality before the current closing date.

10.     Past Implementation Status Results and Reports (ISRs) have rated the
implementation progress as "Satisfactory" including the rating on financial management.
The project has disbursed about SDR 37.6 million by June 2007, 80% o f the total credit
amount. The remaining credit has been committed to planned civil works, development
o f pilot courses in distance learning, consultancies (including project staff) and
scholarships.

11.     In the process of preparing the additional financing credit, it was discovered,
however, that there were two issues which had not been addressed under the original
credit, including (a) the outstanding Environmental Assessment (EA) report for the
construction o f the ISRI campus site (classified as a category "B" project for Bank EA
purposes) and (b) the qualifications o f the audit report for the financial year ending on
December 31,2005.

12.     On the EA, the implementing agency had assumed that since the land was given
by the Maputo Municipal Government and was not occupied prior to construction, there
were no potential environmental and social issues and hence did not conduct a proper
environmental and social assessment. The Ministry o f Education and Culture (MEC)
completed only a geophysical and geotechnical study which included partial discussion
o f the environmental issues and measures for mitigation.         After realizing the non-
compliance and with guidance and draft TORSfrom the Bank's environmental specialist,
on April 30, 2007, the borrower hired a reputable local environmental firm to conduct the
environmental and social assessment, including the associated mitigation measures. The
Environmental Assessment (EA) Report for the construction o f the I S R I university
campus was officially submitted to IDA and found to be satisfactory on May 30, 2007.
Further the G o M confirmed that the EA was disclosed inits territory ina public forum on
May 14, 2007 and that a period o f two weeks was provided for public comment or
suggestions on the impact assessment and for mitigation measures proposals and that no
substantial comments were received. Inaddition, the EA Report that was cleared by IDA
was sent for disclosure through the Bank's InfoShop on June 8,2007.

13.      The audit reDort for the financial year ending on December 31, 2005 was
qualified.  The qualifications were due primarily to: (i)     about US$370,05 1 advanced
under a competitive Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF) had not been
accounted for by the end o f 2005, and (ii)   in Tete Province the documentation for the
purchase o f office equipment in an amount equivalent to US$600 was missingat the time
o f the audit signing. The first was due to the fact that QIF implementation cycles are
different from the financial year cycles. Funds advanced in one particular year are not
always utilized (justified) in the same year and sometimes are justified in the following
year. The second was due to the fact that documentation for the office equipment was
not presented to the auditor on time. The auditors further highlighted internal control
deficiencies.



                                             3

14.     In agreement with the Bank team, the recipient developed an Action Plan to
address the QIF advances and internal control deficiencies. The Action Plan has been
fully implemented.     On June 5, 2007, the borrower submitted a clean audit report
including a management letter for the financial year ending on December 31, 2006,
which indicates satisfactory progress towards addressing weaknesses identified in the
2005 audit report.

15.     Therefore, both issues have now been resolved. All other covenants have been
complied with. The Government (represented by both the Ministry o f Education and
Culture and the Ministry o f Science and Technology) i s committed to the project. IDA
remains the most significant external financier o f higher education, science and
technology inMozambique.


B.AdditionalFinancingJustificationandDescription

16.     Since November 2005, IDA supervision has consistently pointed out the cost-
overrun in civil works and equipment due to severe under-budgeting and lack o f
specification inworks at the design stage. The cost overrun was so significant that even
the savings achieved from currency exchange rate fluctuations was not able to fill the
gap*

17.     In its letter dated June 16, 2006, the Government requested continued IDA
support for higher education, science and technology after HEP closes. Given the
possibility o f usingthe additional financing instrument and the uncertainly in future IDA
allocation, inApril 30 2007 the Government requested that an additional financing credit
o f US$15 million be provided: (1) to cover the financing gap in HEP stemming from
cost overruns in the area o f civil works and equipment:        (2) to scale up successful
activities including the Provincial Scholarship Fund and the competitive Quality
Enhancement and Innovation FundandNational Research Funds.


ADDRESSNG OVERRUNS
               COST              KJS$8MILLION)

18.     Even though the HEP targets o f access, equity, and efficiency have been
achieved, much o f the civil works exceeded the original budget allocations owing mainly
to cost overrun. The current situation i s that virtually 100% o f project funds i s already
disbursed or committed, and no funding remains to equip some o f the new buildings
completed or now under construction. In addition, the I S R I Campus risks being
completed only partially. Not to complete and equip these buildings will result in an
underutilization o f the facilities and substantial waste in the investments already made
and poses a reputational risk for the Bank. About US$8 million from the additional
financing credit will be allocated to address the cost overrun in civil works and
equipment.




                                             4

SCALINGUP: COMPETITIVEFUNDS,SCHOLARSHIPS,AND BASICSCIENCEPROGRAMS
JUS$7 MILLION)

19.      The additional financing credit would also finance another round o f competitive
funds under the Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF) and the National
Research Fund (NRF). While in-depth impact evaluation studies are being planned and
will be completed by September 2007, field visits and anecdotal evidence indicate that
these programs are regarded as having been very successful in fostering initiative and
raising quality at the institutional level - at universities accessing the QIF and inresearch
institutes eligible for support under the NRF. The provision of QIF especially assured
funding for innovative teaching and learning programs and prevented quality erosion at
the time o f enrollment expansion inbeneficiary private and public institutions. Another
cycle of QIF and NRF will finance about 20-30 research, quality improvement, and
innovationprojects, benefiting about ten public and private higher education and research
institutions.

20.      In addition, the Provincial Scholarship Fund (PSF) will be continued, to ensure
that the 264 scholarship students now being financed will be able to continue their study
programs for another year. The PSF was designed to address equity in access to higher
education and to encourage students who are from outside o f Maputo provinces to attend
higher education institutions. The Ministry o f Education and Culture i s conducting an in-
depth impact evaluation for the scheme. Again, there is evidence that the PSF has been
very successful in leveling the playing field for the poor but able students in the
provinces. The Netherlands Embassy has agreed to take over the cost o f educating these
students after HEP closes untilthey finish their study programs.

21.      A new scholarship scheme for science and technology is being developed to
encourage an increase in the number of students (at the master's and Ph.D. levels)
specializing in high-priority scientific and technical areas, supporting the Government
strategy on Human Resource Development Plan endorsed in 2006 by the Cabinet. IDA
review and approval of the eligibility criteria for the science and technology scholarship
scheme is a condition for disbursement under the respective category in the Table in
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. Further, the additional financing credit will
support the development o f basic science programs for talented secondary school
students.

22.      After HEP closes and upon successful evaluation, it is expected that IDA may
provide a follow-up credit to continue supporting these schemes, inpartnership with the
GoM and other partners. The World Bank Mozambique Country Partnership Strategy
(FY08 to FY11) (CPS) for the next four years already made such a provision.


ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT PROJECTDESCRIPTION

23.      The additional financing credit o f US$15 million will be integrated into the
original four project components:        A) system-wide reform and policy development
(US$0.5 million), to support the project management, monitoring and evaluation



                                                5

activities; B) Institutional Development and Investment (US$ 10 million) including the
completion o f I S M campus construction, the rehabilitation o f the Faculty o f Engineering
inthe Universidude Eduurdo MondZune (UEM) and the Mozambique Distance Learning
Network (MDLN) Lichinga Resource Center, the furniture and equipping o f ISH,
Universidude Pedugogicu (UP), UEM Central library, and MDLN Lichinga Resource
Center, andthe development and implementation o f another cycle o f QIF; C) Provincial
Scholarship Fund (US$1.5 million), to finance the 264 provincial students to continue
their study until June 2009; and D) Science and Technology (US$3 million) for capacity
building and policy development, another cycle of the National Research Fund and for
development and implementation o f the science and technology scholarship scheme and
the basic science program. Table 1 below provides the estimated project costs
information for the additional financing.


                               Table 1:Project Costs by Component
                          ProjectCost by Component                US$ million
         A. System-wide ReformandDevelopment                            0.5
         B.InstitutionalDevelopment andInvestments
            B1.UEM,UP,ISM, MDLN                                         7.5
            B2: Quality Enhancement andInnovationFacility (QIF)         2.5
         C. Provincial Scholarships                                      1.5
         D.Science andTechnology
            D1,MCTCapacity BuildingandProject Implementation             0.7
            D2. National ResearchFund                                    1.2
            D3. Science and Technology Scholarships                      0.8
            D4.Basic Science Camp                                        0.3
                               Total ProjectCost                         15
                            TotalFinancingRequired                       15
                    Project Cost by ExpenditureCategory           US$ million
          Goods                                                          4.5
         Works                                                           3.4
          Consultants' Services                                          0.5
          Traing andWorkshops                                            0.3
          Grants (QIF andNRF)                                            3.2
          Scholarships                                                    2
          Operating Costs                                                1.1
                               Total Project Cost                        15
                            TotalFinancingRequired                        15




111.PROPOSEDCHANGES

24.      The additional financing credit will continue to support the achievement o f the
Development Objectives o f the parent Higher Education Project, which are; (i)to
enhance the internal efficiency and expand the output o f graduates; (ii)to improve
equitable access, and (iii)to improve the quality o f teaching and learning and the


                                                 6

relevance o f the curriculum. Activities financed by the additional financing credit are
aligned with the original components A, B, C, and D. Under Component D, however,
two new subcomponents are added which are the provision o f scholarships for science
and technology andthe support for basic science program.

25.      The same implementation arrangement will also be maintained to implement the
additional financing credit.     Specifically, the additional financing credit will be
implemented by two government agencies, the Ministry o f Education and Culture
through Designated Account A and the Ministry o f Science and Technology through
Designated Account B for Component D only.

26.      In the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will continue to provide oversight and coordination.           The institutional project
implementation teams located in UEM, ISRI, and UP will also continue to function. In
the Ministry o f Science and Technology, the Director o f Planning has the overall
responsibility for project coordination. The project will continue to finance the key
consultant positions infinancial management and procurement inboth Ministries.

27.      However, the additional financing credit o f US$15 million will have a different
IDA financing parameter from the original project.         The original credit requires
counterpart contribution for local expenditures: 85% for works and goods, 5% for
consultancies, and 50% for operating costs. The additional financing credit is expected to
provide 100% financing. This can be justified both by the new Mozambique country
financing   parameter o f 100% for all expenditure categories and by the government
commitment to the education sector as evidenced by the consistent budgetary allocation
o f about 20% to education over the last few years.

28.      The same financial management, disbursement, and procurement arrangement
will be used. The project, upon approval, will be implemented from effectiveness until
June 30, 2009, allowing sufficient time to complete the remaining civil works and
procurement of equipment and the implementation o f another cycle o f scholarships, QIF
and the NRF. A disbursement condition on science and technology scholarships i s added
for IDA to review the eligibility criteria to ensure proper implementation o f this new
subcomponent, under the respective category inthe Table in Schedule 2 o f the Financing
Agreement.

29.      The Project Implementation Manual(PIM) has been developed. The new PIM for
the additional financing credit includes original operational manuals for QIF,NRF, PSF
and the newlydeveloped manuals for the science and technology scholarship scheme and
the manual for the basic science program. Procurement Plans have been updated and
approvedby the Bank. The final approval o f P I Mwill be a condition for effectiveness.


IV. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS OR Country PartnershipStrategy (CPS)




                                             7

30.     The financing o f cost overruns in civil works and equipment fits within the
original project design.        The additional financing o f scholarships and quality
improvement and research finds is also consistent with the GoM's overall economic
growth and poverty reduction strategy and the WBG's Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for the next four years. Overall the CPS calls for a balanced approach to the
development o f the education sector by focusing more on the provision o f post basic
education and training.

31.     Further, the proposed additional financing credit is inline with the World Bank's
Africa Action Plan. In September 2006, the World Bank's Development Committee
endorsed the Bank's Africa Action Plan (AAP).The AAP focuses on building state
capacity and improving governance; strengthening the drivers o f growth; and promoting
broad participation in growth and sharing its benefits.       It calls for identifying and
supporting the key drivers o f growth including the development o f relevant skills for
competitiveness and growth. In the past, a larger share o f IDA support in education
supported the basic education sector. The AAP envisages a progressive realignment o f
IDA allocations in support of post-primary education, from the current share o f about
22% (6% for secondary education, 3% for vocational training, and 13% for higher
education) to a share o f at least 35%.


V.      ECONOMICANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUNOR FINANCING GAP

32.     It is by now well understood that humandevelopment significantly contributes to
economic growth; better education, a healthy population, and improved social protection
are imperative to improve labor force productivity and economic performance.
Improvement in schooling, life expectancy, nutrition, and skills has resulted in gains in
GDP growth andpoverty reduction, e.g. increasingthe labor force's average education by
one year raises GDP by 4 to 9 percent; while an HIV/AIDSepidemic reduces GDP by up
to 1.O percent per year.

33.    HEP was firther justified in 2002 on the following grounds:          (1) to increase
enrollments in higher education, given that the existing Gross Enrollment Ratio of 1%
was low by comparison with other countries at comparable income levels; (2) to address
internal efficiency issues in the production o f higher education graduates, reducing
student repetition and increasing graduation rates; (3) to reduce disparities in access to
higher education on the part o f those from different geographic locations, gender and
socioeconomic backgrounds; and (4) to increase the output of higher education graduates
to meet the growing demand for highly skilled labor in Mozambique's formal modem
sector, particularly in such fields as management, engineering, accounting and the
physical sciences. These arguments remain valid today as the Project approaches its
closing at the end o f 2007. The additional financing credit will further improve the
access, equity, and efficiency goals and will not alter the economic justification in
investment inhigher education, science, andtechnology.

34.    Interms o fthe financial or fiscal implications, the additional financing credit will
have little or no impact on future recurrent costs.       The new funding ensures that


                                            8

investments appraised as part o f the original project will now be completed. In fact, the
cancellation o f some construction activities not yet begun will result in a small reduction
infuture recurrentcosts, below the levels originally estimated.

35.     Given the significant funding for civil works and equipment under the project,
attention to their future maintenance i s very important. Since the start o f HEP, the public
universities have increased their generation o f own revenues (over and above the
allocations from the budget and from external donors) through modest increases in
student tuition fees and the privatization of auxiliary (non-academic) services such as
student housing, dining and laundry. These revenues provide an adequate cushion for
maintaining the new (and existing) facilities, and Government will supervise such
maintenance as a condition for full institutional funding when the New Funding Model
now being developed by the Directorate for the Coordination o f Higher Education inthe
Ministry o f Education and Culture has been approved and introduced.



VI. APPRAISAL OF RESTRUCTUREDOR SCALED-UPPROJECT
ACTIVITIES

36.     As described above, the scaled-up project activities are mainly in the areas o f
competitive funds (both Quality Enhancement and Innovation Fund and the National
Research Fund), scholarships (both the Provincial Scholarship Fund and the new Science
and Technology Scholarships), and basic science camps.

37.     These project activities are designed as demand-side interventions to enhance
equitable access to higher education and research as well as to improve the quality and
efficiency of higher education institutions.       For the competitive funds, the same
Operational Manual developed inHEP will be used. For the provincial scholarships, also
the same criteria and procedures will be used in the implementation of the additional
financing credit.

38.     Based on the Government's Human Resource Development Plan approvedby the
Cabinet, the Ministry o f Science and Technology already developed a draft Operational
Manual for the new scholarship scheme on science and technology. The scheme will
target selected priority areas in natural sciences, engineering, and technology.         The
Ministry o f Science and Technology already appointed a scholarship manager within the
Department o f Planning. It i s further expected that the beneficiaries o f the scheme will
sign a binding contract in accordance with existing regulation to minimize the potential
brain drain. Eligibility criteria for the scholarships will be reviewed and approved by
IDA before disbursement.

39.     A draft Operational Manual on the basic science program has also beenprepared.
The Department of Basic Science within the Ministryo f Science and Technology will be
the implementer o f this subcomponent. The program will be implementedat least once a
year for a week during school break from the three Regional Centers o f Science and



                                              9

Technology and will target about 100talented secondary school students from each of the
three regions every year.



VII. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

40.      The additional financing credit will further contribute to the achievement o f
Development Objectives andwill allow new andhigher level indicators to be achieved by
June 30, 2009. Table 2 below updates the outcome indicators. A detailed Results
Framework i s attached inthe Annex.

               Tab1 2: Project Development Objecti :s and Outcome Indicators
     Project                 OutcomeIndicators               Progressto Date       Proposednew
  Development                                                     (2006)          targets by June
    Objectives

Are to: (i)          Absolute number of students           Target surpassed.    Number o f graduates
enhance the          graduating increased from 786 in      Annual graduates     increasedto 4,000
internal efficiency  2000 to 1,500 in2006 inall HEIs       was 3,700 in2006     based on 2008 data.
and expand the
output of            Increasedby 5% point the number o f   Considered achieved; Increasedby another
graduates, (ii) students from the North (from 10%          17% and 29%          3 percentage points
improve equitable    to 15%) and Center (from30% to        respectively         (North from 17% to
access, and (iii) 35%) enrolled into public HEIsby                              20%; Center from
improve the          2006                                                       29% to 32%)
quality o f teaching
and learning and     Reduce the licenciatura completion    Achieved.            Efficiency ratio
the relevance of     time by increasing the                                     (new admission over
the curriculum       admissiodenrollment ratio from                             total enrollment)
                     16.6% to 17.4% (20% would be                               further increasedto
                     ideal) by 2006                                             22%

                     Positive impact o n the quality o f   MEC will             Increased use o f new
                     higher education as evidenced by an   commission a study   curriculum, updated
                     increaseduse o f new curriculum,      to be completed by   materials, ICT, and
                     updated materials, ICT, and student-  the closing date     student-centered
                     centeredpedagogy                                           pedagogy inthe
                                                                                classrooms, to be
                                                                                confirmed by a
                                                                                survey study




VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

41.      The closing of the financing gap incivil works and equipment will provide access
to an additional 1000 students to study in the new I S M campus, and will allow proper



                                                     10

functioning of the UEM Central Library, UP Beira and UP Maputo campus, and the
Lichinga Resource Center for distance learning.

42.    The scaled-up activities in competitive funds, scholarships, and basic science
programs will benefit 20-30 higher education and research institutes in quality
improvement, innovation, and research outputs. Further, it will benefit 264 students from
outside o f Maputo to continue their education for another year. Those who do not finish
at the end o f the project will be supported by the Netherlands and Swedish funds until
they complete their programs. The new science and technology scholarship will benefit
approximately 12 students to pursue master or Ph.D level studies inthe highly demanded
areas o f science and technology. At the completion o f the additional financing credit, the
Government intends to continue this program with its own budget with support o f other
partners including IDA. The basic science programs will be carried out by the three
Regional Centers o f Science and Technology, at least once a year, during school break
about one week long, benefiting at least 100 secondary school students in each o f the
three regions.

43.    Interms ofimplementationrisks, the MinistryofScience and Technology hasless
experience in managing IDA projects and its team needs intensive training. To mitigate
against this, the project has built in systematic training not only intechnical areas but also
in key fiduciary functions         o f financial management and procurement.              The
implementation o f the original project to date has also given them valuable exposure to
IDApractices.

44.    There is always a country-wide risk o f brain drain in low income African
countries. The risk i s higher for investment in higher education as the graduates and
beneficiaries will indeed become more marketable at the regional and international labor
markets. The project will try to minimize such risks by requiring the beneficiaries to sign
a binding contract in accordance with existing regulation to minimize the potential o f
brain drain. The expectation is, however, that in the long term the continued economic
growth inMozambique will bringback its talents from the diaspora.



IX. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
FINANCING

45.    The additional financing credit will be on standard IDA terms. The Financing
Agreement attached describes in detail these terms.           Specifically, compared to the
original HEP credit, the changes (reflected in the Financing Agreement) include: i)the
financing parameter (from partial IDA financing o f local expenditures to 100% IDA
financing); ii)the Closing Date (to June 30, 2009); iii)the amounts to be disbursed; (iv)
disbursement categories; and (v) project description including the inclusion o f two new
subcomponents in the project description under Component D Science and Technology.
Table 3 below lists the eligible expenditure categories, the amount o f the credit allocated
to each category, and the percentage o f expenditures to be financed by the credit.



                                              11

                   Table3: Withdrawalfrom theProceedsofthe Financing

           Category                Amount of the Credit       Percentageof Expenditures
                                   Allocated (expressed in         to be Financed
                                           USD)


                                                                 (inclusive of Taxes)


(1) Goods under Part B1of the                      4,000,000            100%
Project

(l)(a) Goods under Part D1 of                        500,000            100%
the Project

(2) Works under Part B1of the                      3,100,000            100%
Project

(2)(a) Works under Part D1 of                        300,000            100%
the Project

(3) Consultants' services, under                     300,000            100%
Parts A, B2 and, C of the Project


(3)(a) Consultants' services                         200,000
under Part Dof the Project

(4) Training and Workshops                           200,000             100%
under Part A o fthe Project

(4)(a) Training and Workshops                        100,000
under Part D of the Project

(5) QIFGrants and QIFSub-                          2,200,000             100%
Loans under Part B2 of the
Project

(5)(a) NRF Grants underPart D2                      1,000,000            100%
ofthe Project

(6) Scholarships underPart C1                       1,200,000            100%
ofthe Project

(6)(a) Scholarships underPart                        800,000             100%
D3 ofthe Project

(7) Operating Costs under Part                       900,000             100%
A1 of the Project

(7)(a) Operating Costs under                         200,000             100%
Part D1 of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT                                      15,000,000




                                               12

                       Annex: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
           MOZAMBIQUE: HIGHER         EDUCATION     PROJECTADDITIONALFINANCING
                                           (P105205)

                                    RESULTS    FRAMEWORK



 are to: (i)enhance the      Indicator 1: Absolute         Annual data from the
 internal efficiency and     number o f students           institutions will be usedto
 expand the output o f       graduating increased from     update the achievement o f
 graduates, (ii)improve      3,700 in2006 to 4,000 in      the indicators.
 equitable access, and (iii) 2008 inall HEIs
 improve the quality o f                                   A studywill be
 teaching and learning and   Indicator 2: Increasedby 3%   commissioned and
 the relevance o f the       point the number o f students completed by the end o f the
 curriculum                   from the North (from 17%     project to have an
                             to 20%) and Center (from      assessment on the
                             29% to 32%) enrolled into     qualitative impact that HEP
I                            public HEIs by 2008           has on the teaching and
                                                           learning o f students.
I                             Indicator 3: increase the
                              efficiency indicator:
                              admissiodenrollment ratio
                              from 19% in2006 to 22%
                             by2008

                              Indicator 4: Positive impact
                              on the quality o fhigher
                              education as evidenced by
                              an increased use of new
                              curriculum, updated
                              materials, ICT, and student-
                              centered pedagogy




                              ComponentA:                   ComponentA:
 System-wide Reform and       A1: Revisiono fthe legal      Law amendments and/or
                              framework for higher          revision and decrees passed
                              education                     by authorities

                              A2:Monitoringand              Annual Higher Education
                              Evaluation systems,           Statistics and graduate
                              including student tracking to tracer studies



                                            13

                          monitor internal and
                          external efficiencies

                          A3: Successful project       Supervision missions, ISRs
                          coordination andcompletion ratings, Progress Reports
                          of evaluational studies      and ICR
ComponentB:               ComponentB :                 ComponentB:
Institutional Development B1: Numberofgraduates        Annual HigherEducation
and Investments            andgraduation rate          Statistics
                           increased inUEM,UP and
                           I S R I

                                                       Progress Reports and
                          B2: Distance learning       MDLNprogramdelivery
                          programs implemented         reports

                           B3: QIFfully operational
                           and implementedwell         Progress Reports and QIF
                                                       evaluation report
ComponentC:                ComponentC:                 Component C:
Provincial Scholarships    C1: scholarship scheme      Progress Reports and
                           established inthree         Scholarship Evaluation
                          provinces (Gaza, Tete and    Report
                           Cab0 Delgado)

                           C2: at least 200 students
                          beingsupported by the
                           scholarship scheme
ComponentD:                ComponentD:                 ComponentD:
Science andTechnology     D1:Ministryof Science and    Progress Reports
                           Technology capacity
                           strengthened
                                                       Project Progress Reports
                           D2: 20 NRFprojects          andNRF Evaluation Report
                           successfully supported and
                           completed                   Project Progress Reports
                                                       and
                          D3: 12 master and Ph.D       Scholarship Evaluation
                           level students supported by Report
                          the science and technology
                           scholarship scheme

                          D4: 200 talented secondary   Project Progress Reports
                           students benefited annually andBasic Science Program
                           from the basic science      Evaluation Report
                          Drograms



                                         14

h

      3




            z




      3
      3
      m
      d

ba      tA    3




              * a
               m W

     U
     0




         a




           0        00
           N   $1    m




           0        0
           m   $1   0m

     m
     v1

     &I
I    a
     %,
           m
          4   0     0


