Report No. 23323
Report No: I069824 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/04/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOZAMBIQUE      Project ID: P069824
Project: Higher Education Project        Task Team Leader: Soren Nellemann
Appraisal Date: June 19, 2001    IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 60.00
Managing Unit: AFTH1     Sector: ET - Tertiary Education
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance Loan (SIM) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This project is a continuation of the World Bank support to the education
sector in Mozambique. This support derives from the development of a
national strategy for higher education approved by the Council of Minister
in August 2000 and builds upon the detailed plan of operationalization of
the strategy subsequently developed by the Government of Mozambique (GoM)
and approved by the Council of Ministers on July 3, 2001. The World Bank
is one of the partners supporting the Government in implementing this
ten-year long program aimed at the nation-wide strengthening of higher
education. The Government's goal for this period is to achieve a
diversified, flexible, integrated and cost effective higher education
system, and to train the high level labor force urgently needed for the
socio-economic development of the country.
The development objectives of the proposed Higher Education Project (HEP),
in line with the national objectives, are to: (a) enhance internal
efficiency and expand the output of graduates; (b) improve equitable
access (gender, location and socio-economic), and (c) improve the quality
of the teaching-learning process and the relevance of the curriculum.
Project activities are intended to support the elements of the national
program covering the higher education system and within public, private
and nonprofit higher education institutions (HEIs), and in the new
Ministry for Higher Education, Science and Technology (MESCT).
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Higher Education Project, will have three components: (1) System-wide
Reform and Development, (2) Institutional Development and Investments: (a)
Eduardo Mondlane University, (b) Pedagogical University, (c) Higher
Institute for International Relations, (d) Mozambique Distance Learning
Network, (e) Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility, and (3)
Provincial Scholarships.
1. System-wide Reform and Development
This component will finance activities to support overall policy, system
reform and development. The purpose is to create a dynamic system of
higher education which is integrated, more efficient in its resource



utilization and diversified, as well as structured in ways that enable it
to deliver types of learning which contribute directly to economic
development and social welfare. A prerequisite for this systemic reform is
the development of the Ministry itself--the strengthening of its
institutional, technical and managerial capacities--so that it can
fulfill its government-mandated leadership and coordination role for
higher education in Mozambique.
Activities will include technical assistance, minor rehabilitation work,
training, studies and workshops for the development of: (i) new
regulatory, fiscal and accountability framework; (ii) new pedagogical
teaching methods and programs, (ii) the use of ICT in the delivery and
teaching of higher education, (iii) an accreditation system, (iv) new or
alternative sources of funding; (v) a HIV/AIDS prevention and support
program for students (Annex 13).
2. Institutional Development and Investments
This component will support comprehensive sub-projects in the higher
education sector aimed at improving efficiency, academic quality, research
and scope of service delivery by specific institutions in their defined
areas of specialization and in specific geographic locations. It has five
sub-components:
(a) Eduardo Mondlane University. The overall objective of this
sub-project is to improve the graduation rate and efficiency in resource
utilization while improving the quality of programs, learning environment
and pedagogical methods used in the classroom. Investments in curriculum
reform, improving pedagogical teaching methods, including more
interactive and project oriented methodologies, will be a necessary first
step. This will require enhancing the capacity of the UEM academic staff
to teach more relevant and advanced courses, promote capacity for
self-study, and as elsewhere, to use ICT as an integral part of their
instructional strategy and providing internet and PC access to students,
thereby improving IT capabilities. Short term training of teachers and
further revision of the curriculum using assessment based on international
standards, will ensure higher standards of relevance and quality in
programs and in their mode of delivery by the teaching staff.
This sub-project will support the following key activities: (i) curriculum
and academic reform and external quality reviews in disciplines selected
by the institutions; (ii) academic and administrative staff development;
(iii) reform of financial management, university management and
administration, and efficiency improvements: establishment of efficient
computer based financial and academic management and information systems,
based on the analysis and recommendations of the study by external
management consultants; (iv) central library/ICT: the establishment of a
central library with advanced ICT capability and the possibility of
serving the information needs of other public and private institutions in
Mozambique; and (v) new facilities.
(b) Pedagogical University. An adequate supply of well trained secondary
school graduates is central to GoM's efforts to improve the quality and
efficiency of secondary education.    UP plays a key role in this regard as
the institution responsible for the training of secondary school teachers
and the training of trainers for primary school teachers. The HEP1 will
- 2 -



support UP with the implementation of its plan to improve the quality of
its programs and broaden their scope by supporting: (i) new facilities:
new and improved teaching facilities and student accommodation; (ii)
curriculum development: the development of revised curricula; (iii)
academic and administrative staff development; (iv) program development:
development and start-up of new courses; and (v) financial, management and
efficiency improvements.
(c) Higher Institute for International Relations. As part of the strategy
of stratification of the institution and programs, ISRI is broadening its
course offerings beyond its traditional international relations programs.
As a first step a program in public administration is to start in 2001.
To enable ISRI to offer a broader range of quality programs to a larger
number of students the project will provide ISRI with support towards the
following sub-components: (i) new facilities: the necessary teaching,
library and student facilities improvement; (ii) academic and
administrative staff development; (iii) program development and
implementation supervision; and (iv) IT development and improvement in
financial and information management.
(d) Mozambique Distance Learning Network. The project will support the
development of a new "Mozambique Distance Learning Network" (MDLN).
Distance-education programs will be designed by the academic staff of
higher education institutions, developed in collaboration with the
technical support staff of the MDLN's central unit and delivered through a
network of distance-learning centers located throughout the country.
Student guidance, tutorial support and evaluation would be provided by the
higher education institutions originating specific programs. The regional
distance-learning centers would be operated by existing private and public
institutions throughout the country.    The first programs would be
in-service secondary teacher upgrading to address the problem of the large
number of unqualified teachers currently employed in secondary schools. In
addition, a distance-learning alternative for pre-service teacher
education in French, English math and science will address the expected
sharp increase in secondary teacher education numbers required by the
proposed expansion of the secondary school system. These programs will be
developed in collaboration with UP. Other programs may include upgrading
programs for business, economics and law, which would be developed in
collaboration with UEM.
This sub-component will support the cost of the following activities: (i)
HR Capacity building: training and institutional capacity building in
design, development, delivery, management and evaluation of
distance-learning; (ii) Network infrastructure: Minor civil works,
equipment, consultant services staff and operating costs for establishing
the central unit and the regional learning centers and the communication
(probably Vsat) network; (iii) Program and pilots with institutions:
Materials development and program implementation costs.
(e) Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF). The Quality
Enhancement and Innovation Facility (QIF) will provide financial support
for quality improvements, capacity building and innovations in academic
and research programs, and in institutional management and administration
in higher education. The Fund will operate three programs, offering
different types of financial support for investments in innovations and
- 3-



capacity building to improve relevance, efficiency and quality of academic
programs, institutional management and research: (i) the Institutional
Program will provide grants or repayable loans to public and private
higher education institutions (HEIs) that are not already participating in
the institutional development component, to finance investments to support
upgrading and capacity building of staff (through Staff Fellowships for
postgraduate education and other training for teaching and management
staff), and innovations to improve quality and efficiency of existing
programs (through curriculum development, provision of equipment and
learning materials etc.) and to develop and introduce new academic
programs to improve equity of access and meet changing skill requirements;
(ii) the Academic Staff Program will provide small grants to individual
academic staff or groups of staff to enable them to invest in development
of new skills, teaching methods or learning materials, and the design and
introduction of innovations and improvements in curriculum and delivery of
courses and academic support of students; (iii) the Research Program will
provide small grants to support basic or applied research which develops
linkages or other forms of collaboration with Mozambican industry and the
productive sector or with other national or international research and
higher education institutions.
3. Provincial Scholarships
This component will, on a pilot basis before expanding nationally,
initiate the introduction and operation of a publicly run and publicly
financed scholarship scheme that will provide financial assistance,
student outreach and academic advisory services to benefit students who
graduate from secondary schools in the provinces of Cabo Delgado, Gaza and
Tete. The program will cover the tuition, travel, subsistence and lodging
costs of candidates from disadvantaged (social and gender) groups. Those
selected for academic and financial support can make use of it in any
public or private higher education institution. Provincial government,
educational administration, local employers and NGOs will be involved in
program governance.
Components:
1. System-wide Reform and Development
2. Institutional Development and Investments
3. Provincial Scholarships
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is confined to existing university campuses and public land.
However, during appraisal it became evident that in the future under the
Quality Enhancement and Innovation Fund some subsidiary agreements with
private or public universities may involve new site construction. Also,
the project will finance the repair or replacement of toilets and other
sanitary facilities in student dormitories and administrative buildings.
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments: The civil works defined in the project are confined to existing
- 4 -



campuses and public sites and therefore do not entail any environment or
resettlement issues. However, during appraisal it was agreed that any new
site construction or rehabilitation of student dormitories (sanitary
facilities) and if a relocation of ISRI into a new building is required,
should be in accordance with Bank requirements need for environmental and
resettlement documentation. This should also cover future and unknown site
construction which may emerge under the support to the private sector from
the Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility. It was therefore agreed
to include such issues early on to provide the Government with the tool to
ensure compliance. Therefore, it was agreed to change the classification
from C to B. However, as a consequence of this, the project could not
disclose appropriate EIA and RAP documentation prior to appraisal. Thus,
it is not in strict conformance with Bank policy on disclosure of EIA and
RAP documents. Specifically, EIA and RAP documentation will be completed
for any each new site construction as a condition for disbursement,
reviewed and disclosed by the Bank and the Government as described below.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The rehabilitation and construction of student dormitories will entails
sanitary facilities like toilets and showers. Toilets should be connected
to main municipal sewer systems and installed according to codes. The
relocation of the current ISRI university located in a villa into a new
building will entail the installation or rehabilitation of kitchen and
toilet facilities. Under the Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility
(US$ 3.0 million) private universities can seek financial support up to
$250,000 for each loan to a maximum of $750,000 for any HEI. The eligible
activities covers training, curriculum development projects, teaching or
computer equipment, and may include building or rehabilitation of
classrooms or student dormitories which may entails similar sanitary
facilities. The construction of any new classrooms or buildings on new
sites should ensure that there would no involuntary resettlement of people
and if so, that they get compensation
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
- 5 -



more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Unrepaired sanitary facilities, like toilets and sewers systems, could
eventually generate seepage becoming a health risk or reach the water
mirror.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Badly maintained toilets and sewer pipes can lead to leakage into the
ground and can therefore provide a health or environmental hazard
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
In light of D.l.c this is why the project will finance the rehabilitation
of existing dormitories or the construction of new ones.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower will conduct an environmental analysis prior to each new
construction activity to ensure that environmental and social impacts are
appropriately addressed
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders are public and private university staff, teachers,
students, parents, local communities, private sector, Provincial
Government and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology
(MESCT). MESCT will be responsible through the Council of Ministers for
the accreditation of any new institution or new site construction and
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      10/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 10/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/31/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      10/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 10/31/2002
- 6-



Date of submission to InfoShop 12/31/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Soren Nellemann 11/30/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt/Person/World Bank 12/03/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
12/03/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:        Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank       12/03/01
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     12/03/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Dzingai Mutumbuka        11/30/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-7 -



