Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3609-1-MOZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Higher Education Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 21, 2007 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3609-1-MOZ 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 21, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE
 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Financing Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,900,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Page  4
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that 
the Project Implementation Manual shall have been updated in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE V
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and Development. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Planning and Development 
Av. Ahmed S. Toure, 21, 4
th
 floor 
Maputo, Mozambique 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
(258) 21 492-268 
(258) 21 492-625 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at Maputo, Mozambique, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By /s/ Aiuba Cuereneia 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Baxter
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient
’s higher education sector in:  
(i) enhancing internal efficiency and expand the output of graduates, (ii) improving 
equitable access (gender, location and socio-economic), and (iii) improving the quality of 
the teaching-learning process and the relevance of the curriculum. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts: 
Part A:
System-wide Reform and Development
1. 
Support the Recipient’s higher education policy and system reform, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, including studies, monitoring activities and 
carrying out of training and workshops. 
Part B:
HEIs Institutional Development and Investments
1. 
(a) Carrying out of civil works for the completion of construction of the ISRI 
campus and of the MDLN Lichinga Resource Center;  and (b) provision of equipment for 
the Universities. 
 
2. 
Provision of QIF Grants for eligible Public Beneficiaries and QIF Sub-Loans for 
eligible Private Beneficiaries, including for the purposes of: (i) the carrying out of 
training for teachers and management staff; (ii) the provision of fellowships for 
postgraduate education; (iii) the development of academic programs to improve equity 
and quality of higher education; (iv) the design and implementation of research projects 
to develop linkages with the productive sector or with international research and HEIs; 
(v) the provision of equipment; and (vi) the carrying out of civil works for the 
rehabilitation of higher educational facilities. 
 
Part C:
Provincial Scholarships
1. 
Provision of scholarships for eligible Individual Beneficiaries in HEIs. 
Part D
:
Science and Technology
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Science 
and Technology and its regional centers, through: (a) the carrying out of civil works for 
the rehabilitation of the said regional centers; (b) the provision of equipment; (c) the 
carrying out of training; and (d) the development of its human resources development 
plan. 
Page  8
6
2. 
Establishment and operation, through the provision of NRF Grants, of the 
National Research Fund, to promote applied scientific and technological research. 
 
3. 
Design and implementation of a science and technology scholarship scheme and 
provision of scholarships for eligible Individual Beneficiaries to increase the number of 
students at the master’s and doctoral levels. 
 
4. 
Design and implementation of a basic science program for eligible secondary 
school students.     
 
Page  9
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
 The Recipient shall: (a) carry out Parts A, B (except for B.1) and C of the 
Project through the PCU established under the Original Project in the Ministry of 
Education and Culture, and Part D of the Project through the Directorate of Planning of 
the Ministry of Science and Technology; and (b) cause Part B.1 of the Project to be 
carried out by the Universities  and to be coordinated by the PCU. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain the PCU and the Directorate of Planning within the 
Ministry of Science and Technology with qualified and experienced management and 
staff, throughout the implementation of the Project. 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements   
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project, or cause the Project to be 
implemented, as applicable, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual 
(PIM) containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the different 
activities under the Project, including the institutional responsibilities, reporting structure, 
review and monitoring, procurement, disbursement, financial management, as well as the 
eligibility criteria, approval procedures and guidelines for the implementation, and terms 
and conditions of QIF Sub-Loans and QIF Grants under Part B.2 of the Project, NRF 
Grants under Part D.2 of the Project and scholarships under Parts C.1 and D.3  of the 
Project. 
2. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend the PIM or waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  10
8
D. Safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project, or shall cause the Project to be carried 
out, in accordance with the guidelines, rules and procedures and mitigation measures 
defined in the ESMF and in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Recipient shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce 
the ESMF referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph or any provision thereof. 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the ESMF referred to in sub-
paragraph (1) of this paragraph and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty- 
five days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i)  
the number of students graduating in all HEIs has increased to 
4,000 by June 30, 2009; 
(ii)  
the efficiency ratio
 
of
new entries over total enrollment has 
increased by 22% by June 30, 2009; 
(iii)  
20% of all HEI enrollments are from the
 Recipient’s northern 
region and 32% from the central region; and 
(iv)  
a comprehensive survey on the use of new curriculum materials, 
technology and student-centered pedagogical approaches, has 
been completed by June 30, 2009.  
Page  11
9
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. Goods, 
Works
 and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).
 
All goods, 
works
 and services (other than Consultants’ Services)  required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
Page  12
10
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services).  
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works
 and services (other than consultants’ services).  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Procurement from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may b
e
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more or provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.
 
Page  13
11
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1) Goods under Part 
B.1(b) of the Project 
 
(1)(a) Goods under Part 
D.1(b) of the Project 
 
2,640,000 
 
330,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(2) Works under  Part 
B.1(a) of the Project 
 
(2)(a) Works under Part 
D.1(a) of the Project 
 
2,050,000 
 
200,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services, 
under Parts A.1, B.2 and, 
C.1 of the Project 
 
(3)(a) Consultants’ 
services under Part D 
(except for D.1 (a)(b) and 
(c)) of the Project 
 
230,000 
 
100,000 
100% 
 
100% 
Page  14
12
 
(4) Training and 
Workshops under Part 
A.1 of the Project 
 
(4)(a) Training and 
Workshops under Part D 
(except for D.1(a) and 
(b)) of the Project 
 
130,000 
 
70,000 
100% 
 
100% 
(5) QIF Grants and QIF 
Sub-Loans  under Part 
B.2 of the Project 
 
(5)(a) NRF Grants under 
Part D.2 of the Project  
 
1,420,000 
 
700,000 
100% 
 
100% 
(6) Scholarships under 
Part C.1 of the Project 
 
(6)(a) Scholarships under 
Part D.3 of the Project 
 
850,000 
 
450,000 
100% 
 
100%
 
(7) Operating Costs under 
Part A.1 of the Project 
 
(7)(a) Operating Costs 
under Part D.1 of the 
Project 
 
600,000 
 
130,000 
100% 
 
100%
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9,900,000  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
(b) 
in respect of expenditures under Category (6)(a) unless the eligibility 
criteria for the Scholarships under Part D.3 of the Project have been 
finalized in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  15
13
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
commencing September 1, 2017  to and including 
March 1, 2027 
1% 
commencing September 1, 2027 to and including 
March 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  16
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiaries” means Private Beneficiaries and Public Beneficiaries as 
hereinafter defined. 
3. 
“Boletim da Republica” means the Recipient’s Official Gazzette. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“ESMF” means the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
 
prepared by the Recipient, dated  May 25, 2007 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“HEI” means a higher education institution in the territory of the Recipient as 
defined in the Revised Higher Education Law No. 1 of June 24, 1993. 
9. 
“Individual Beneficiaries” means, in respect of Parts C.1 and D.3 of the Project, 
students from the territory of the Recipient selected in accordance with the 
criteria specified in the PIM (as hereinafter defined herebelow). 
10. “ISRI” 
means 
the 
Instituto Superior de Relações Internacionais
,
the Recipient’s 
Higher Institute for International Relations established pursuant to 
 
Decree No. 12/97 and published in the Recipient’s Official Gazzette on  
June 3, 1997. 
11. 
“MDLN” means Mozambique Distance Learning Network. 
12. 
“NRF” means the National Research Fund, the Recipient’s fund established 
pursuant to Decree No. 12/2005 and published in the Recipient’s Official 
Gazzette on  June 10, 2005. 
Page  17
15
13. 
“NRF Grants” means a grant made or proposed to be made by NRF to a Public or 
Private Beneficiary under Part D of the Project in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified in the PIM. 
14. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenditures which would not be 
incurred absent the Project, incurred on account of expenditures for office 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
bank charges on the Designated Accounts, rental expenses, office maintenance 
costs, utilities, travel cost for Project staff for supervision field trips and, salaries 
of support contractual staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of the 
Recipient’s civil service officials. 
 
15. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Higher Education Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
March 20, 2002, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
 
(Credit No 3609-MOZ). 
16. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
17. 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual adopted by the Recipient as 
updated pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement.
 
18. 
“Private Beneficiaries” means, in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, private 
higher education institutions established under the Recipient’s Law No. 1 of  
June 24, 1993. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 17, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Public Beneficiaries” means, in respect of Part B.2 and Part D of the Project, 
public higher education institutions established under the Recipient’s Law No. 1 
of June 24, 1993. 
22. 
 “QIF Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient to a 
Public Beneficiary for the purposes of  Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions specified in the PIM.  
Page  18
16
23. 
“QIF Sub-Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Recipient to 
a
Private Beneficiary for the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project in accordance 
with the terms and conditions specified in the PIM.   
24. 
“Quality Enhancement and Innovation Facility” or “QIF” means a funding 
mechanism through which the Recipient shall provide: (i) QIF Sub-Loans for 
Private Beneficiaries; and (ii) QIF Grants for Public Beneficiaries, for the 
purposes of Part B.2 of the Project. 
25. 
“Scholarship” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient to an 
Individual Beneficiary for the purpose of Parts C.1 and D.3 of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the PIM and includes the 
costs of tuition, travel and subsistence. 
26. 
“Training and Workshops” means educational programs financed under Project 
activities, including purchase of training materials, rental of training facilities,  
per diem and related travel costs. 
27. 
“Universidade Eduardo Mondlane” means 
the Recipient’s Eduardo Mondlane 
University, established pursuant to Decree No. 12/95 published in the Recipient’s 
Boletim da Republica
 on April 25, 1995. 
28. 
“Universidade Pedagogica”
,
the Recip
ient’s Pedagogical University established 
pursuant to Decree No. 13/95 published in the Recipient’s Official Gazzette on 
April 25, 1995. 
29. 
“Universities” means collectively the 
Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
,
the 
Universidade Pedagogica
 and 
ISRI
.
