Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16037
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION AT CREDIT CANCELLATION NOTE
(IN LIEU PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE)
NEPAL
ARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
(CREDIT 2029-NEP)
September 27, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
South Asia Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Nepalese Rupee (NR)           100 Nepalese Paise
Fiscal Year Averages:
US$ 1.00 (FY84)           15.6 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY86)    =      19.9 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY88)    =      22.8 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY90)    =      28.4 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY92)    =     40.2 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY94)          47.9 NRs
MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)          =      1,000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)          =      1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)          =      1,000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt-hour          =      1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -       Asian Development Bank
DCA  -       Development Credit Agreement
DoR  -       Department of Roads
EdF   -      Electricit6 de France International
HEP  -       Hydro Electric Project
1HMG  -      His Majesty's Government
KfW   -      Kreditanstalt fiur Wiederaufbau
LI    -      Lahmeyer International
LCGEP-       Least-Cost Generation Expansion Plan
LRMC -       Long Run Marginal Cost
MWR -        Ministry of Water Resources
NEA  -       Nepal Electricity Authority
NEC  -       Nepal Electricity Corporation
PAF  -       Project Affected Family
PoE   -      Panel of Experts
T&T  -       Trade and Transit
FISCAL YEAR
Ending July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
ARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
(CREDIT 2029-NEP)
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION AT CREDIT CANCELLATION NOTE
(IN LIEU OF PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE)
Table of Contents
PREFACE..i
EVALUATION SUMMARY..ii
The Project and  its Objectives ...........................................................iii
Project Outcome and  Sustainability  of Benefits ...................................................
Findings and Lessons ............................................................i
I: PROJECT ASSESSMENT
A.  Evaluation  of Project Objectives ...........................................................1                                I
B.  Achievement of Objectives .....................                                ......................................3
C.  Major Factors Affecting  the Project ...........................................................                             3
D.  Project Sustainability ...........................................................7
E.  IDA  Performance ............................................................7
F.  Borrower Performance   .... ............ ...                            ..............        ............ ............ 19
G.  Cofinanciers Performance ..........................................................                                         10
H. Assessment of Outcome .                               ........................................                               10
I. Lessons .                                                                                                                    10
II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments .........................................                               ................. 12
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ..........................................................     13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..........................................................                                          14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative (Estimated and Actual) .......... 15
Table 5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................... 15
Table 6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operation .....    ........................................... 15
Table 7A:  Project Costs .......................................................... 16
Table 7B:  Project Financing ....................                               ...................................... 16
Table  8:  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ..........................................................   17
Table 9:  Status of Legal  Covenants ...........................................................                                18
Table  10:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements .............                                         ................. 20
Table  I 1:  Bank  Resources; Staff Inputs  ........................................................... 20
Table  12:  Bank  Resources; Missions ..........................................................                                21
Appendix A: Review of the Arun III Hydroelectric Package by the
Inspection  Panel                         .......................................................... 22
Appendix  B: Excerpts from   the News release  dated  August 3, 1995  .............                                          ................. 23
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



I



NEPAL
ARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
(CREDIT 2029-NEP)
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION AT CREDIT CANCELLATION NOTE
(IN LIEU OF PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE)
Preface
This is the Status of Implementation at Credit Cancellation Note for the Arun
Access Road Project (The Project) in Nepal for which Credit 2029-NEP in the amount of
SDR 24.4 million was approved on May 30, 1989 and made effective on November 1,
1989. The Borrower was the Kingdom of Nepal and the Beneficiaries were the Nepal
Electricity Authority (NEA), Ministry of Water Resources, and the Department of Roads
(DOR), Ministry of Works and Transport. This Note was prepared in lieu of the Project
Completion Note to inform the Executive Directors of IDA, of the status of the project at
the time Credit 2029-NEP was canceled. The Project was not implemented.
Because bid prices were about double the appraisal estimates, the bidding process
in 1989-90 was not completed and implementation of the project was delayed. During the
1990-94 period, His Majesty's Government (HMG) and IDA agreed to combine this
Project with the then proposed Arun III Hydroelectric Project (Arun III HEP).
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) which would have
restructured the Project were negotiated in June 1994, and included as part of the Arun III
HEP Package' circulated to the Executive Directors of IDA on August 31, 1994.2
On November 2, 1994, four persons claiming to be affected by the Project
included in the Arun III HEP Package filed with the Inspection Panel (IP) a Request for
Inspection for the Arun III HEP Package. With its decision of February 2, 1995, the
Executive Directors authorized the Inspection Panel to investigate the allegations that the
Arun III HEP Package was not in compliance with the Operational Directives OD 4.01
(Environmental Assessment), OD 4.20 (Indigenous People), and OD 4.30 (Involuntary
Settlement).3
I   The Arun m HEP Package includes the draft Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement for the
Arun III HEP and amendments to the DCA of August 8, 1989 for the Arun Access Road Project (Cr.2029-NEP),
negotiated between HMG and IDA in June 1994.
2   The project documents were distributed to the Executive Directors with the Memorandum dated August 31,
1994, of the Vice President and Secretary, well in advance so that the Executive Directors and their authorities
would have adequate time for their review of this complex project package. The Board consideration of the
project package was to be held on a date to be determined later, after all the statutory requirements and Board
Presentation conditions were fulfilled.
3   The policy context for resettlement in this project was OMS 2.33, Social Issues Associated with Involuntary
Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects, since the succeeding OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement was not
issued until June 29, 1990.



- 11 -
Following the Panel's findings given in their report dated June 21, 1995, and
following further review, on August 1, 1995, IDA's Management decided not to proceed
with plans to support the Arun III HEP Package.
The credit was closed on October 25, 1995, (effective as of July 31, 1995)
compared to the original closing date of July 31, 1994. No disbursement was made from
the proceeds of the Credit. Therefore, the whole amount of the credit was canceled as of
July 31, 1995. None of the objectives of the project was achieved. At the time IDA's
Management canceled the Credit, an outstanding issue concerned the return of the unused
land along the "hill alignment" to its original owners. In its letter dated June 18, 1996,
IDA requested HMG to inform IDA of the actions taken or to be taken: (i) on the manner
in which the unused land would be returned and (ii) for an equitable rehabilitation of the
PAFs whose land had been (in Tumlingtar and Basantapur) and would be possessed.
This Note was prepared by Mr. Argun Ceyhan (Task Manager from December 1,
1994, until cancellation of the Credit on October 25, 1995) of the Energy and
Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office
(SA2EI). It was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief, SA2EI and Mrs.
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2. It is based on material in the project file and the
Inspection Panel's report, dated June 21, 1995.



- ill -
NEPAL
ARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
(CREDIT 2029-NEP)
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION AT CREDIT CANCELLATION NOTE
(IN LIEU OF PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE)
Evaluation Summary
The Project and its Objectives
i.    The Arun Access Road Project (the Project) consisted mainly of the access road to
the dam and power station sites of the future Arun III Hydroelectric Project (Arun III
HEP).  Although it was an integral part of the hydroelectric scheme on which its
justification depended, it was proposed and approved as a separate project to allow the
construction of works of the Arun III HEP to begin in early 1992.
ii.    The main objectives of the Project were to provide access for personnel, materials
and equipment to the Arun III HEP construction site by the provision of an all-weather
road for vehicles; strengthen the capabilities of HMG to administer rehabilitation of
families affected by the project and manage environmental protection and conservation
measures; and reduce the cost of transporting goods between the agricultural but food
deficient areas of the Koshi Hills and the more industrialized and productive Terai.
Project Outcome and Sustainability of Benefits
iii.   The Project was not proceeded with. The Credit was kept in abeyance and later
canceled. Thus none of the Project's objectives were achieved.
Findings and Lessons
iv.    The basic findings and lessons for future projects are:
a) IDA should avoid self-imposed pressure to accelerate project processing when
preparation is not complete, with justifications such as: 'the borrower needs
this project as soon as possible" or 'We should not miss the next construction
season" (para. 21);
b) IDA should not ignore the dynamics of the political and economic environment
in the country and the region where it is located --- the excessively long project
preparation time for the Arun III HEP (preparations began in the mid-1980s
and the Staff Appraisal Report - SAR - for this Project was not completed until
August 29, 1994) assumed a static world. Political and economic changes in
Nepal and relations between Nepal and India were almost ignored over a
period of about ten years, as if everything was static. While the Credit was
kept in abeyance a lot of changes occurred, including IDA's requirements in



- v -
assessing environmental and social impacts of a project and implementation of
mitigatory measures. Furthermore, at approval the Trade and Transit Treaty
between Nepal and India had expired and had not been renewed. Despite this,
IDA approved the Project, let the procurement go ahead and used the trade
and transit issue as an incomplete explanation for the financial gap which
appeared due to bid prices which were considerably higher than the estimate
(para. 9);
c) IDA's appraisal of the access road as a 'toad" project and not as a component
of the Arun hydroelectric project, led to incomplete decisions regarding the
alignment route. Early recognition and evaluation by IDA of the Arun Access
Road Project as a component within a larger hydroelectric project might have
avoided later changes in the Project's objectives and the alignment change
(paras. 2-5, 11); and
d) IDA should insist on compliance with its policies and operational directives,
where these are applicable, even in the case of a Project for which
implementation of the investment component never began and the Credit is
kept in abeyance --- IDA failed to observe in substance its own policy
requirements for appraisal (the project was submitted to the Board without an
adequate plan to deal with indirect effects on the people), and for supervision
and consequently failed to enforce the covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement (para. 21).
v.    Other important findings and lessons for future projects are summarized as
follows:
d) for this kind of project which is based on one large contract, the project should
be presented to the Board only after the bids have been received (para. 9);
e) IDA should ensure the ownership by the borrower of any project it approves --
the Borrower owned very strongly the larger project (in this case the Arun III
dam and hydroelectric project and its access road, as a whole) but did not
hesitate to change the access road alignment (that was the Project for which
IDA approved Cr. 2029-NEP) in the expectation of completing the larger
project one year earlier (paras. 10 and 22);
f) focusing on a larger project (as in (e) above) IDA should not neglect the
impact on the people affected by a smaller project (in this case the access
road), neither should it neglect to properly monitor the actions by the borrower
and implementing agency (land acquisition along the 'hill alignment" while the
borrower intended to change the road to the "valley alignment") -- (para. 14);
g) IDA should make sure that the borrower establishes procedures to ensure that
it does not proceed with land acquisition without pre-emptive and mitigative



v_
measures in hand and should seek to ensure that the fate of project affected
families does not remain uncertain for a long time (paras. 14 and 21); and
h) to enable implementation of pre-emptive environmental and social measures,
IDA should require that institutional capacity needs are strengthened at the
initiation of the project and are not left to the future and, ensure that
responsibility for the implementation of a project itself and of the associated
environment and social mitigation measures is not fragmented (para. 21).






NEPAL
ARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
(CREDIT 2029-NEP)
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION AT CREDIT CANCELLATION NOTE
(IN LIEU OF PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE)
I. Project Assessment
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
I.    Background. The Arun Access Road Project (the Project) consisted mainly of the access
road to the dam and power station sites of the future Arun III Hydroelectric Project (HEP).
Although it was an integral part of the hydroelectric scheme on which its justification depended,'
it was proposed and approved as a separate project to allow the construction works of the Arun
III HEP to begin in early 1992. The Arun III HEP was first identified, as a 402 MW project, with
six units of 67 MW each, under the Master Plan Study of the Development of the Kosi River
Basin which was carried out in 1983-1985, under the aegis of the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA). This study planned for the access road to begin from the nearest
road terminal at the town of Hile in the hills, go down to the Arun River valley and then follow
the valley all the way to the powerhouse and dam sites This route was later designated as the
'Valley alignment." Pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for Arun III HEP were conducted in
1985 and 1987. In 1987, His Majesty's Government (HMG) had its consultants undertake the
Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan (LCGEP) with the objective to determine the least cost
generation option for the integrated power system of Nepal and the benchmark dates for
implementation decisions. The study concluded that Arun III HEP, to be built in two phases of
201 MW each, was the least cost addition to Nepal's power system after the Marsyangdi
Hydroelectric Project then under construction.2 If arrangements with India could be concluded
within about 3 years, it was recommended to proceed to implement the Arun III HEP as a single
stage 402 MW scheme. HMG presented a 402 MW project for donors' assistance in the Nepal
Power Subsector Meeting in May 1988 in Paris, and the proposal was endorsed by the donors. In
1989, in view of the India-Nepal trade and transit situation, the HMG initiated the concept of
developing the project in two stages of four units (total: 268 MW) and two units (total: 134
MW), respectively.
2.    Road Alignment. The selection of the alignment of the road was a difficult issue to
resolve in the history of the project. There is no 'hatural" route for a road in a watershed with
such steep hills and unstable topography. When the Project was presented to the Board of
Executive Directors of IDA, the 'hill alignment" chosen represented a shift from the plan laid out
by the above JICA study. The change was based on a study for which the terms of reference
(TOR), prepared by the Department of Roads (DOR) of HMG, included, inter alia, non-power
Although the Project consisted of the construction of a road, its justification was based on an economic analysis carried out
on the entire NEA power investment program (Part II; Table 8).
2  This project of 69 MW was being constructed under IDA Cr. 1478-NEP, with cofinancing from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany, Asian Development Bank, Saudi Fund for Development and Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development. The previous largest project was the Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project (60 MW) constructed
under IDA Cr. 600-NEP and 600-1-NEP.



- 2 -
based development in the Arun Valley.3 Access to the hydropower sites was put in third priority,
although the road was justified due to the hydro development.
3.     The 'hill alignment" and the reasons for its selection were described in the Staff Appraisal
Report4 (SAR) as follow:
'The route selected is passing through mountainous terrain and follows the ridges
wherever possible, descending only for crossings of the Piluwa Khola near Chainpur, the
Sabhaya Khola at Tumlingtar and at the sites of the powerhouse, adit and dam. The
streams and rivers of this area are unpredictable and can be very violent and destructive.
They cause excessive steeping of the valley sides and consequently instability of the
slopes. The route has therefore been chosen to avoid rivers as far as possible, and to
follow the contours closely in order to minimize the quantities of cut and fill, and to
reduce negative environmental impact." (para. 3.08 of SAR).
4.     HMG's Strategy for the Construction of Arun III HEP. At the time, HMG was following
a two-pronged approach. While upon approval of the IDA credit the road would be built by the
DOR, NEA would have their consultants complete the detailed design of the hydroelectric
project. It was expected that the Arun III HEP would be presented for Board approval a few
years later, when the access road was nearing completion.
5.    Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the Project were to provide access for
personnel, materials and equipment to the Arun III hydroelectric construction site by the provision
of an all-weather road  for vehicles;   strengthen  the  capabilities of HMG  to  administer
rehabilitation of families affected by the project and manage environmental protection and
conservation measures;5 and reduce the cost of transporting goods between the agricultural but
food deficient areas of the Koshi Hills and the more industrialized and productive Terai.
However, the economic evaluation of the Project did not include any reference to the last
objective, i.e., lower transport costs to the Koshi Hills.
6.     Project Description. To achieve these objectives, the Project comprised:
(a)    the construction of a gravel-surfaced road, 192 km long, from near the end of the
existing Dharan-Basantapur road to the Arun III hydroelectric construction site,
following an alignment beginning at Basantapur, and following the ridges wherever
possible, through Mamling - Kharang - Tumlingtar - Khandbari and Chyanguti to
the sites of the powerhouse, adit and intake works at the dam located near Num.
This route was later designated as the 'hill alignment"  The project would also
3 The TOR stated that the construction of the road would be expected to: (a) facilitate the modernization of the agricultural
and mining sectors; (b) break down the isolation of the area so that health, education and social interaction might be
improved; and, (c) provide access to sites along the Arun River which have potential for hydroelectric development.
4  Staff Appraisal Report, dated May 12, 1989 (Report No. 7461-NEP).
5  The policy context for resettlement in this project was OMS 2.33, Social Issues associated with Involuntary Resettlement
in Bank-Financed Projects, since the succeeding OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement was not issued until June 29, 1990.
The initial environmental studies for the "hill alignment" were carried out by the Department of Roads (DOR) of HMG in
1987, before either OD 4.00 Annex A: Enviromnental Assessment (October 31, 1989) or OD 4.01: Environmental
Assessment (October 3, 1991) were in effect.



include a 6 km spur road from Kharang to the commercial and administrative
center of Chainpur.6
(b)    the  construction  of a road  maintenance  depot at Tumlingtar to  support
maintenance of the project road and monitor maintenance operations carried out
by contractors;
(c)    rehabilitation of the families adversely affected by the construction of the access
road through implementation of a Land Acquisition, Compensation, and
Rehabilitation Plan (ACRP); and,
(d)    consultancy services for: (i) construction supervision; (ii) the training of DOR
maintenance personnel; and (iii) the preparation and implementation supervision of
ACRP.7
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.     As described in the following paragraphs, the project was not implemented, and the Credit
was kept in abeyance. Thus none of the above objectives was achieved.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.     The major factors which affected the outcome of the project were:
(i)   decision by IDA to present the Project to the Board before receiving the bids and
while a trade and transit dispute between Nepal and India had arisen (para. 9);
(ii)   decisions by HMG and IDA's and other donors' agreements on: (1) changing the
alignment of the road from the 'hill alignment" to the 'Valley alignment" and (2)
merging the road project with the hydroelectric project (paras. 10 and 11); and
(iii)   the fate of the project affected families (PAFs) along the 'hill alignment" and
investigations by the Inspection Panel (IP - paras. 12-15).
9.     Trade and Transit Difficulties and Bids.  The Trade and Transit (T&T) Treaty between
Nepal and India had expired in March 1989 and difficulties had arisen in its renewal. Cr. 2029-
NEP was approved on May 30, 1989, while difficulties between the two countries had not been
resolved. In addition, the bids for the construction of the road had not been received. Bids were
received on June 13, 1989, just two weeks after approval of the Project. Out of the eight
prospective contractors who had bought the bid documents, only two submitted bids. These bids
were respectively almost the double and triple of the estimates.8 The documents in the Project
6  Even the "hill aligmnent" given in para. 3.08 of the SAR, was realigned to pass through Chainpur. Hence the access road
was to pass through Mamling-Piluwa-Chainpur-Kharang-Tumlingtar-Khandbari and Chyanguti.
7  The ACRP given in Annex 8 of the SAR covered only the first year of construction (approximately 70 km) and was subject
to revision, as may be required, to respond to the needs of the remaining families according to the principles of the
Guidelines upon which the ACRP was based. Consultants services for the preparation of ACRP for the following years
was included in the Project.
8  Estimates for the construction of the road, given in the SAR (Report No.7461-NEP, dated May 12, 1989), were US$33.2
million (including physical and price escalation). The lowest bid was approximately US$60 million and the other bid was



- 4 -
files do not show how much was due to the T&T dispute and how much to poor cost estimates or
small number of bids or limited history of contract construction in Nepal or perceived risks. The
cost estimates were based on those prepared by Consultants in 1987. The SAR stated that the
estimates were adjusted for mid-1989 prices. HrMG and IDA concluded that the procurement
process had been substantially affected by the above T&T dispute, and agreed that the bids were
non-responsive. Both of the bids were rejected. IDA informed HMG that its procurement
procedures required rebidding, but HMG's view was that rebidding could not take place until the
economic situation disrupted by the trade and transit dispute was clarified.9 In addition, the
unexpectedly high prices had created a financing problem, since Cr. 2029-NEP was too small to
finance all the required road works.
10.    Change in HMG's Strategy for the Construction of Arun III HEP.  While HMG and IDA
discussed the fate of the bids and possible financing sources, IDA required that the Arun III HEP
be revalidated in LCGEP. The latter was done under the 1990 Update of LCGEP. During all
this, the time advantage of building the access road separately was lost. Then HMG decided to
combine the access road with the hydroelectric component. The Government assessed the
advantages of such a merger, as shorter construction period, easier and less costlier management
and less contractual complications. This decision was later endorsed by the Panel of Experts
(POE) for the hydroelectric project established under OMS 3.80 for the Safety of Dams.'0 IDA
and other major donors" subsequently agreed. It was also agreed that the most economic
approach was to construct the access road and the major civil works of the hydroelectric scheme
in one contract."2 Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement for Cr. 2029-NEP would
be negotiated with the Arun III HEP and would be presented to IDA's Board of Executive
Directors as one package (the Arun III HEP Package). In the meantime, proceeds of Cr. 2029-
NEP would be kept in abeyance. Funds of the Credit were expected to be used to fund the
advance payment for the contractor of the above mentioned main civil works.
11.    Changes in Development Phases of Arun III HEP and in the Access Road Alignment.
Since its inclusion into NEA's investment program, the construction of a large hydro project such
as Arun III HEP caused concerns with regard to its impact on Nepal's macroeconomy, especially
with regard to its crowding out social sector projects. In 1992, in response to such concerns, the
LCGEP was once more updated. Within this study, HMG decided to restudy the 1989 project
concept of building the Arun III HEP in phases of 268 MW  and 134 MW  (para. 1). HMG also
approximately US$90 million. A detailed review of the bids carried out by representatives of 1MG (including staff from
the DOR and NEA), IDA and the consultants, concluded that the higher bid corresponded to the most realistic price for
undertaking the road project. A third bid was not accepted because it was not delivered in a sealed condition and was
submitted two minutes after the latest time for submission.
9  The Trade and Transit Treaty between Nepal and India was put into operation in July 1990.
10 OMS 3.80 - Safety of Dams; dated June 1977.
11  Including representatives of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Governments of Germany and Japan, and Kf1W.
12  The combined civil works lot would include the construction of the access road (122 km along the "valley alignment"),
NEA camp facilities, the dam (68 m high, 155 m long concrete gravity dam with a three-gate overflow spillway); power
intake (with four openings and three integrated sluiceways), two descending basins (17 m wide, 28 m high and 110 m
long, each), a flushing tunnel, a headrace tunnel of about 12 km long (500 m long with 7.5 m concrete finished diameter,
and about 11.4 km long with 5.6 m concrete finished diameter), and a surge tank (95 m high, with 15.9 diameter).
Another major part of the decision was to replace, for cost reasons, the two headrace tunnels of 4.6 m diameter, by one
headrace tunnel of approximately 7.5 m diameter. The construction of a tunnel of such a large diameter in the Himalayas
would cause big concerns in later years.



decided to have NEA's consultants check whether building the access road through the 'valley
alignment," which was initially proposed under the JICA study (para. 1), would save time for the
construction of the hydroelectric project. This time, TOR for the review, which were prepared by
NEA, considered speedy access to the hydro site as first priority. The study, which included an
environmental assessment of the valley access road, concluded that the Arun III HEP be
developed in two phases of 201 MW each (back to the original 1987 concept - para 1). With
regard to the access road, it concluded that a road following the 'Valley alignment" would enable
the hydroelectric project to be commissioned one year earlier than the 'hill alignment." The
results were endorsed by HMG and later by the POE. Specifically in comparing the two road
alignments, the POE endorsed the choice of the 122 km "valley alignment" for both technical and
environmental reasons. IDA and the major donors, meeting in Kathmandu in October 1992,
agreed with the HMG's decision and POE's endorsement. The most important reason for the
shift of access road alignment from valley to hill and back to valley route was the change in the
priority of the objectives of the road construction. In the TOR of the DOR upon which Cr. 2029-
NEP was based (para. 2), the access to the hydropower sites was put in third priority (footnote
3), while in the TOR of NEA the first priority was to open the access to the hydropower sites as
soon as possible. In the SAR for the Arun III HEP (dated August 29, 1994), there was no
mention how the disadvantages of the 'valley alignment" given in the 1989 SAR were going to be
addressed and resolved (para. 3).
12.   Appraisal of the Arun III HEP. The appraisal of the Arun III HEP was carried out in
September-October 1993, by a joint IDA/ADB/KfW mission. Negotiations between HMG/NEA
and IDA were held in June 1994, and the SAR and other project documents'3 were distributed to
the Executive Directors with the Memorandum dated August 31, 1994, of the Vice President and
Secretary, well in advance so that the Executive Directors and their authorities would have
adequate time for their review of this complex project package. The Board consideration of the
project package was to be held on a date to be determined later, after all the statutory
requirements and Board Presentation conditions were fulfilled.
13.   Acquisition of Land Along the 'Hill Alignment" - Resettlement Issues. By the time the
decision to change the alignment was finalized in October 1992, DOR had already acquired the
land upon which the road (along the 'hill alignment') and the maintenance depot were going to be
built. The total land involved was 310 ha, owned by 1,635 families - the number of Project
Affected Families (PAFs). The amount of compensation for each family was determined in
accordance with the ACRP (para 6.d). Compensations were paid to 1,352 PAFs. Despite
advance notification to the villagers to collect the compensation amount, as required by the
approved guidelines for acquisition of land and distribution of compensation, 283 families did not
claim the compensation money. HMG stated that the compensation amount was deposited in an
escrow account. When it was decided that the 'hill" road was not going to be built, HMG
stopped the legal transfer of the titles to the Government. At that time, transfers for about 15-20
percent of the plots were already completed. In Tumlingtar, only 4.77 ha of land, owned by 14
PAFs was physically possessed. Since Cr. 2029-NEP was kept in abeyance and the construction
of the access road had not actually begun, a large majority of PAFs neither vacated their property
13 The package included amnendments to the DCA, negotiated in June 1994, which would have restructured the Project.



- 6 -
nor received compensation for trees, crops or hardship, nor rehabilitation grants.14 But they had
lost the title to their land.5
14.   In summary, HMG had acquired along the 'hill alignment," 310 ha of land from  1,635
PAFs of which only 4.77 ha was physically possessed from 14 PAFs. Now that the road was
going to be built along the 'Valley alignment," the issue of how HMG was going to use the
acquired land or how it was going to return it to the original owners arose. HMG's commitment
was to build two limited spur roads on part of the hill alignment, but at some distant time in the
future. 16 At the time the Arun III HEP package was circulated to the Executive Directors of IDA
on August 3 1, 1994, the issue was still unresolved (para. 12).
15.   Investigations by the Inspection Panel. On November 2, 1994, four persons claiming to be
affected"7 by the Project included in the Arun III HEP Package filed with the Inspection Panel (IP)
a Request for Inspection for the said Package. The chronology of the various actions during IP's
investigations is given in Appendix A. Upon receiving the Management's Response dated
November 22, 1994, IP conducted its preliminary review and recommended on December 16,
1994, to IDA's Executive Directors, 'that apparent violations of policy do exist that require
further investigation." On February 2, 1995, the Executive Directors authorized IP to conduct its
investigations. IP's final report was issued to the President of IDA on June 21, 1995. In its final
report, IP summarized the impact of HMG's decision, and IDA's and other donors' agreement, to
shift the alignment to the river valley, as follows:
'The impact [of this decision] on the former property owners was catastrophic in a
number of ways: (1) they had lost title to their land to the Government; (2) the cash
compensation they had received for title had been largely spent in non-productive
purposes; (3) if the Government were to attempt to follow the letter of the law, by
offering the land to original owners at the price they were paid, they would not have the
cash to regain the land, and it would be auctioned to others; and (4) the road would not go
through their communities, thereby depriving them of immediate alternative income
opportunities." (IP Report - Annex 1; para 53).
The Panel also stated that the Requesters had been adversely affected by uncertainties over the
last half decade as the result of the change in access road alignment and their future was still
uncertain, and approximately 1,400 other families were in a similar situation.
16.   HMG's Position for Returning the Land Acquired. The position outlined in HMG's letter
dated April 5, 1995, addressed to IDA, about how the land acquired along the 'hill alignment"
would be used or returned to their original owners, was not satisfactory to IDA. There may have
been lack of communication in conveying IDA's conclusion to HMG. The IDA mission in April
14 It is noted that the ACRP guideline, approved by HMG and agreed with IDA, did not require to give rehabilitation grants
unless the property was physically possessed.
Later HMG began the construction of a road portion from Basantapur towards Chainpur. The area actually possessed
there and the number of PAFs upon whose land this portion of road is built, is not known to IDA.
16 From Tumlingtar to Chaipur and Khandbari.
17 It is understood from the Inspection Panel's Report that their land had been acquired but not physically possessed.



- 7 -
1995, made it clear that a time-bound plan for those farmers and landowners had to be developed
as part of the Arun III HEP Package. In early July 1995, HMG requested IDA to send a task
force to develop the said plan by the end of July 1995. HMG viewed this proposal as part of its
position in its letter of April 5, 1995. The request was received while the Management was
preparing the Management Response to IP's final report, as required by IP's Operating
Procedures of August 1994.
17.   IDA's Decision to Withdraw from the Arun III HEP Package. Upon receipt of IP's above
mentioned final report, IDA's Management carried out another review and decided not to
proceed with plans to support the Arun III HEP Package. Instead, HMG and IDA's Management
agreed to work to develop alternative approaches to meeting Nepal's needs for electric power.
The reason for IDA's decision was that IDA's Management had concluded that it was not
possible to complete the Arun III HiEP by the very tight commissioning date which 11MG had
posed and IDA had appraised. The requirement to implement the Arun III HEP and in particular
the Arun Valley access road in a socially and environmentally sustainable manner, the need for
strengthening of Nepalese implementation capacity, as well as the issues which had arisen in
securing the necessary co-financing were the main reasons for concluding that the Arun III HEP
could not realistically come on stream at least two or three -- and more likely -- four to five years
later than was projected in the appraisal report. Excerpts from the News Release dated August 3,
1995, are given in Appendix B. Cr. 2029-NEP was closed on October 25, 1995 (effective as of
July 31, 1995) and the whole amount was canceled. At the time IDA's Management canceled the
Credit, how the unused land along the 'hill alignment" was going to be returned had not been
resolved (paras. 13, 14 and 16).
18.   Obligation of Nepal under the Development Credit Agreement. Because no disbursement
was made under the Credit and there are no outstanding service charges or commitment charges,
the Legal Department determined that the obligations of Nepal under the Development Credit
Agreement dated August 8, 1989, for Cr. 2029-NEP for the Arun Access Road have terminated.
The above outstanding issue about how the unused land along the 'hill alignment" is going to be
returned to the original owners remains to be addressed by Nepal. In its letter dated June 18,
1996, IDA requested HMG to inform IDA of the actions taken or to be taken: (i) on the manner
in which the unused land would be returned; and, (ii) for an equitable rehabilitation of the PAFs
whose land had been (in Tumlingtar and Basantapur) and would be possessed.
D.   Project Sustainability
19.   The project was not proceeded with. The Credit was kept in abeyance and later canceled.
This section is not relevant.
E.    IDA Performance
20.   The performance of IDA from project identification through preparation assistance to the
borrower, and appraisal and supervision was deficient.
Identification. The access road was an integral part of Arun III HEP and its justification was
based on an economic analysis carried out on the entire power investment program of NEA.
Therefore, the project which was really identified was the Arun III HEP. In view of the



reasons for IDA's decision in August 1995 (para. 17 and Appendix B), one cannot conclude
that the identification was satisfactory.
* Preparation Assistance. IDA did not assist HMG in preparing a project in line with the basic
objective upon which the Project (the access road) was economically justified; that is access to
the hydropower sites. IDA agreed with the TOR for the study of alternative alignments
prepared by DOR, which put access to hydropower sites in third (lowest) priority. Thus,
IDA's performance in assisting the Borrower prepare the Project was far less than
satisfactory.
* Appraisal. IDA's appraisal cost estimates proved to be unrealistic. Against an appraisal
estimate of US$33.2 million, the bid which was about US$90 million was found by HMG,
IDA and HMG' s consultants to be the most realistic price for undertaking the Project (para. 9
and footnote 8).
* At the time IDA approved the Credit, the Trade and Transit Treaty between Nepal and India
had expired and had not been renewed. If IDA had waited only two weeks before approving
the Credit, it would have known that its appraised cost estimates were not realistic.
* On May 30, 1989, IDA approved the Access Road Project. However, in a letter to HMG
dated June 27, 1989, i.e., 28 days after it had approved the Project, IDA informed the
Government of the uncertainties regarding the Arun III HEP on the grounds of insufficient
information of the project's access road costs and construction schedule.
* The IP commented that the Project was submitted to the Board without an adequate plan to
deal with indirect effects of the Project (para. 21).
* IDA did not ensure borrower ownership of the project it approved. The Project IDA
approved was the 'hill alignment" of the access road. The Borrower owned very strongly the
hydroelectric project and did not hesitate to change the access road alignment in the
expectation that the new road along the valley alignment would allow the construction of the
hydroelectric project one year earlier.
* Therefore, IDA's performance during appraisal was deficient.
* Supervision. The IP commented that after the decision to merge the road project with the
hydroelectric project, Cr. 2029-NEP was essentially forgotten and IDA failed to observe in
substance the policy requirements for supervision of resettlement components and
consequently failed to enforce covenants in the DCA (para. 21).
* IDA failed to note, through its supervision of the Project, problems relating to land acquisition
along the hill route. If IDA had addressed the repercussions of the alignment change earlier, it
could have taken actions to improve the situation. Overall supervision was deficient.
* Overall Performance. Looking back to IDA's performance in its agreement in the change of
the 'hill alignment" for which Cr. 2029-NEP was approved to the 'valley alignment" one
cannot conclude that IDA was committed to the Project it had approved.



-9 -
21.    The comments of the Inspection Panel about IDA's actions and  performance are
summarized as follows:
-      'The project went to vote in the Board without an adequate plan to deal with
indirect effects of the project,"8 (IP Report - Annex 1; para. 44).
-      In the rush to obtain funds from  a particular fiscal year, the SAR and related
documents had to be circulated to the Board with approval from the borrowing
government still pending (IP Report - Annex 1; para. 42).
-      Staff interviews have made it clear that [after the decision to merge the road
project with the hydroelectric project], the Credit 2029-NEP was essentially
forgotten, other than the legaVfinancial questions of how to restructure it so the
money never disbursed could be devoted to the new, much larger Arun III project
([P Report - Annex 1; para. 50).
-      The attention of IDA shifted to the valley route, leaving [the people along the hill
alignment, affected by the Project] forgotten in an outlying area ([P Report -
Annex 1; para. 53).
-      IDA  failed to observe in substance the policy requirements for supervision of
resettlement components and consequently failed to enforce covenants in the
[Development] Credit Agreement (IP Report; para. 14).
-      IDA  let the borrower proceed to  land acquisition without pre-emptive and
mitigative measures in hand (IP Report - Annex 1; para. 44).
-      To implement pre-emptive environmental and social measures institutional capacity
needs to be strengthened now (IP Report; para. 25).
-      Responsibility for implementation appears to be fragmented. Direct
mitigation measures are to be taken by one executing agency while indirect
and induced ones are to be taken by another. The design does not yet
provide for a single chain of command or integrated organizational
structure in the Arun Valley to oversee implementation (IP Report; para 25)."
F.     Borrower Performance
22.    The borrower did not own the Project, i.e., the 'hill alignment." While it was discussing
the change in the alignment with IDA and the other donors, DOR acquired land and paid
compensation - but did not complete the transfer of the titles to HMG (para. 12). Therefore,
results lead to the conclusion that a close cooperation between DOR and NEA did not exist. The
18  The policy context for resettlement in this project was OMS 2.33, Social Issues Associated with Involuntary Resettlement
in Bank-Financed Projects, since the succeeding OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement was not issued until June 29,
1990. The Panel noted that in the substantial core of the new OD, there was in fact little change from OMS 2.33. In
spirit and major substance, the OD and the OMS were close to each other. The Inspection Panel stated: "the provisions
of OMS 2.33 are quite explicit about the need for extensive early planning for resettlement issues. Whenever people are
to be displaced, the borrowing government must have a resettlement plan, however brief or extended. The plan must be
completed before negotiations can take place." (IP Report - Annex l; paras. 30 and 31).



- 10-
borrower did not pay timely attention to resolving the uncertainty of PAFs. It is noted once
again, that the borrower's ownership was for the hydroelectric project, not for the access road
("hill alignment") for which the Borrower had signed with IDA a Development Credit Agreement.
G.    Cofinanciers' Performance
23.   There was no cofinancier under the Project. Prospective cofinanciers for the Arun III
HEP19 followed the status of implementation/non-implementation of the project during many
donors meetings held between 1990-1994.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
24.   The outcome is that this project was not properly prepared, appraised, negotiated and
supervised. Review of the documents in the Project Files, reveal a syndrome which could be
called as 'Nepal needs this project as soon as possible" or 'We should not miss the next
construction season"  Despite many uncertainties (bids not received by Board approval,
uncertainties about the borrower's ownership, uncertainties about the definition of the Project -
hill or valley alignment), HMG and IDA went ahead with credit approval and effectiveness. IDA
left the project in its project portfolio although it was known that for a few years at least, the
Project, as approved by the Board, was not going to be implemented.
1.    Findings and Lessons
25.   The basic findings and lessons for future projects are:
a) IDA should avoid self-imposed pressure to accelerate project processing when
preparation is not complete, with justifications such as: 'the borrower needs this
project as soon as possible" or 'We should not miss the next construction season"
(para. 21);
b) IDA should not ignore the dynamics of the political and economic environment in the
country and the region where it is located --- the excessively long project preparation
time for the Arun III HEP (preparations began in the mid-1980s and the Staff
Appraisal Report - SAR - for this project was not completed until August 29, 1994)
assumed a static world. Political and economic changes in Nepal and relations
between Nepal and India were almost ignored over a period of about ten years, as if
everything was static. While the Project was kept in abeyance a lot of changes
occurred, including IDA's requirements in assessing environmental and social impacts
of a project and implementation of mitigatory measures. Furthermore, at approval the
Trade and Transit Treaty between Nepal and India had expired and had not been
renewed. Despite this, IDA approved the Project, let the procurement go ahead and
used the trade and transit issue as an incomplete explanation for financial gap which
appeared due to bid prices which were considerably higher than the estimate (para. 9);
c) IDA's appraisal of the access road as a 'toad" project and not as a component of the
Arun hydroelectric project, led to incomplete decisions regarding the alignment route.
Early recognition and evaluation by IDA of the Arun Access Road Project as a
19 Governments of Japan, France, Sweden and Finland, KfW and UNDP.



- 11 -
component within a larger hydroelectric project might have avoided later changes in
the Project's objectives and the alignment change (paras. 2-5, 11); and
d) IDA should insist on compliance with its policies and operational directives, where
these are applicable, even in the case of a project for which implementation of the
investment component never began and the credit is kept in abeyance --- IDA failed to
observe in substance its own policy requirements for appraisal (the project was
submitted to the Board without an adequate plan to deal with indirect effects on the
people), and for supervision and, consequently failed to enforce the covenants of the
Development Credit Agreement (para. 21).
26.   Other important findings and lessons for future projects are summarized as follows:
d) for this kind of project which is based on one large contract, the project should be
presented to the Board only after the bids have been received (para. 9);
e) IDA should ensure the ownership by the borrower of any project it approves -- the
Borrower owned very strongly the larger project (in this case the Arun III dam and
hydroelectric project and its access road, as a whole) but did not hesitate to change the
access road alignment (that was the Project for which IDA approved Cr. 2029-NEP)
in the expectation of completing the larger project one year earlier (paras. 10 and 22);
f) focusing on a larger project (as in (e) above) IDA should not neglect the impact on the
people affected by a smaller project (in this case the access road), neither should it
neglect to properly monitor the actions by the borrower and implementing agency
(land acquisition along the 'hill alignment" while the borrower intended to change the
road to the "valley alignment") -- (para. 14);
g) IDA should make sure that the borrower establishes procedures to ensure that it does
not proceed with land acquisition without pre-emptive and mitigative measures in hand
and should seek to ensure that the fate of project affected families does not remain
uncertain for a long time (paras. 14 and 21); and
h) to enable implementation of pre-emptive environmental and social measures, IDA
should require that institutional capacity needs are strengthened at the initiation of the
project and are not left to the future and, ensure that responsibility for the
implementation of a project itself and of the associated environment and social
mitigation measures is not fragmented (para. 21).



- 12 -
II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A      Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial             Partial              Neeligible            Deficient       Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                                                 U
Sector policies                       E                    O                     O                     a                   O
Financial objectives                  O                     O
Physical objectives                   I                    E                     D                     *  1El
Poverty reduction                     El                    a                    D                         2/             El
Gender concerns                       E                     O                    O                     a
Other social objectives               E                    E                     E                     *  2/              El
Environmental objectives                                  E                     E                     E                   *  3/
Public sector management              E                    E                     E                    *   4/              E
Private sector management             EE                                         El                   El                   U
B.    Proiect sustainability               Likelv                          Unlikely                      Uncertain          Not Applicable
C.    Bank Performance               HiRaly Satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient                   Not Applicable
Identification                       EL                    El                      * 5                          El
Preparation assistance                 l                   El                      * 5E 
Appraisal                              l                   El                                                   E 5l 0
Supervision                           Dl                   El                      * 5/                         E
D.    Borrower performance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient                   Not Aplicable
Preparation                           E                     E                                                   El
Implementation                        E                     E                      *  6/                         a
Covenant compliance                   El                    E                      *  7/                         
Operation (if applicable)             El                    E                      El
D.    Assessment of Outcome           HiWhlv satisfactory      Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory              Highly unsatisfactory
El                   E                                                    U
1/       The project was not implemented.
2/       Many landowners lost titles to their land - para. 12.
3/       As the Project was not implemented, this is not applicable.
4/       The Project included technical assistance for the training of DOR maintenance personnel. This was not
implemented.
5/       See para. 20
6/       As the project was approved for implementation, non implementation is a deficiency.
7/       See Table 9, compliance with Legal Covenants.



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title and No.              Purpose                Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Cr. 600-NEP and 600-1-NEP:    Support of construction of next   1975     Completed in 1982;
Kulekhani Hydroelectric      generation plant (60 MW) on least           audited by OED
cost sequence.
2. Cr. 1379-NEP:                Assistance to HMG in identifying   1983     Completed in 1990;
Technical Assistance II'      and preparing high priority projects        PCR processed
suitable for IDA or other external
financing
3. Cr. 1452-NEP:                Feasibility study of Karnali       1984     Completed in 1990;
Karnali Preparation           (Chisapani Multi-purpose Project            PCR processed
with an ultimate capacity in excess
of 10,000 MW
4. Cr. 1478-NEP:                Construction of 69 MW hydroplant   1984     Completed, ICR
Marsyangdi Hydro             to meet domestic demand.                     issued.
5. Cr. 1902-NEP                 Support preparatory work for       1988     Completed in 1994;
Third Technical Assistance   further development of least cost            ICR issued.
(Pancheshwar)                 supply for domestic needs and
export.
Following Operations
1. Cr. 2347-NEP:                Improving NEA's technical and      1992     Under
Power Sector Efficiency       operational efficiency, upgrading           implementation
existing generating capacity
There was an earlier project called "Technical Assistance Project" and supported by Credit 659-
NEP of US$ equiv. 9.0 million approved in 1976, which ultimately did not include measures in
the power sector.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Proiect Cycle          Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                                                  5/86
Preparation                                                  01/87-12/87
Appraisal                          10/87*                        2/88
Post Appraisal                                                   5/88
Negotiations                        5/88*                        1/89
Board presentation                  6/88*                      05/30/89
Signing                                                       08/08/89
Effectiveness                                                  11/01/89
Project completion                 5/93** *
Credit closing                   07/31/94**                  07/31/95 ***
* As per the Initial Executive Summary (IEPS) of August 28, 1987
* *Completion of the road component
** *With IDA's telex of October 25, 1995, effective as of July 31, 1995.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative (Estimated and Actual)
FY90      FY91      FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
SAR Estimate (million US$)     12.2      9.0        6.5      3.5      1.6
Actual (million US$)            -          -         -        -
SAR Estimate (million SDR)     9.1       6.7        4.8      2.6      1.2
Actual (million SDR)            -          -         -        -        -
Canceled (million SDR)          -         -          -        -        -        -       24.4
There was no disbursement under the Credit.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR Estimate                       Actual
Road Construction
Tumlingtar - Num Section
Begin               11/89
Completed               5/92
Basantapur - Tumlingtar Section
Begin               11/89              The project was not implemented
Completed               5/93
Construction of the Maintenance
Depot
Begin               1/90
Completed               11/90
Road Maintenance
Begins               8/93
Consultancy Services
Begin               4/89
Completed               8/93                              2/
Training
Begins               11/90              ]The training was
Completed               10/91               ] not carried out
ACRP
Begins               1/89                             3
Completed               6/93
l /  Consultants for the road were already selected and continued their work.
2 /  Consultants worked; their services were funded under grants from Germany.
3 /  The borrower initiated the implementation of the land acquisition process and ACRP. It stopped when the
borrower and IDA agreed to change the alignment and not to build the project as described in the Development
Credit Agreement; i.e. along the "hill alignmenf'.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR Estimate                       Actual
Road Maintenance
Begins               8/93               The project was not
implemented.



- 16 -
Table 7 A: Project Costs
Item                   Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
(Million US$)                     (Million US$)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs                  Costs       Costs
- Road Construction        6.57       19.87       26.44
Maintenance Depot          0.09        0.09        0.18
Land Acquisition for
ACRP                       1.21         -          1.21
Construction Supervision   0.60        2.39        2.99
by Cons.
Technical Assis. training   -          0.09        0.09
Preparation and                                               The Project was not implemented
Supervision of ACRP        0.52        0.42       0.94
Base Costs                 8.99       22.86       31.85
Physical Contingency       1.35        3.43        4.78
Price Contingency          1.31        2.06        3.37
Subtotal Contingencies     2.66        5.39        8.15
Total Project Cost         11.65      28.35       40.00
Table 7B: Project Financing
Source                    Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
(Million US$)                    (Million US$)
Local     Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
IDA:                            4.4       28.4       32.8
Domestic contribution:          7.2        ---        7.2       The Project was not implemented
- H4MG
Total:                          11.6      28.4       40.0



- 17 -
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
In paragraph 4.01 of the SAR, the economic justification of the project was summarized as follows:
'The Arun III Access Road Project is a part of the Arun III hydroelectric scheme which in
turn forms an integral part of NEA's least cost expansion plan in electricity generation, transmission
and distribution. It was thus appropriate to carry out the economic evaluation on the entire NEA
investment program. The investment program for the period FY89-FY200 1 was analyzed for two
different power export scenarios: (a) a base case scenanro assuming power exports of 1.5MW
capacity until the 1995 commissioning of the first phase Arun III hydroelectric scheme when they
increased to 25 MW (both at a load factor of 0.50); and (b) a bulk export scenario, which differs
from the base case in that power exports were assumed to increase to 125 MW from 1997 onwards.
For both scenarios, NEA's sales projections for Nepal's interconnected system were used."
The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the base case, computed taking into account
NEA' s tariffs (i.e., without considering consumers' willingness to pay) was determined as 5.6%.
When consumers' willingness to pay was taken into account, the IERR increased to 14%.
As the project was not implemented no economic analysis was made for this Note.



- 18 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree     Section     Present   Original    Revised     Description of covenant   Comments
ment                  status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
DCA       2.02(b)      NC                              HMG to maintain special
dollar account
DCA       3.01(a)      NC                                HMG to adopt and
implement a plan for
efficient functioning
DCA       3.01(b)      NC                               HMG to carry out the
Project with due diligence
DCA        3.02        NC                             Procurement of works and    ot complied.
consultant services to be  Project
governed by Schedule 3 of  was not
___________ .______                               Agreement          implemented
DCA       4.01(a)      NC                             HMG to assure that proper
project account are
maintained
DCA      4.01(b)(i)    NC                                H1MG to arrange for
records to be audited
DCA     4.01(b)(ii)    NC                              Audited certified copy of
report to be submitted not
later than 12 months of the
end of each FY
DCA    4.01(b)(iii)    NC                                Unaudited Projects
Accounts and Financial
Statements to be furnished
not later than 6 months of
the end of each FY
DCA    4.01(c)(iv)     NC                             Annual audit to include all
expenditures of SOEs   _
DCA    Sch.4 Para 1    CP                                  Overall project       Committee
management to be      established.
provided by Arun III    Functions
Monitoring Committee       found
satisfactory
in 6/94.
DCA    Sch.4-Para 2    CP                                 H1MG to maintain         Unit
Implementation Unit,    transferred to
assign an Officer to carry   NEA. Found
out implementation of the    satisfactory
project.           in 6/94.



- 19 -
DCA    Sch.4-Para 3    CP                                  H1MG to maintain     Unit combined
Environmental         with NEA
Management Unit, assign    (APEMU),
qualified offic-r to carry  found
out implementation.   satisfactory in
6/94.
DCA    Sch.4-Para 4    CP                                  HMG to maintain       Committees
Acquisition,        established
Rehabilitation,          and
compensation Committees.   functioned
during land
acquisition.
DCA    Sch.4-Para 5    CP                               HMG to carry out ARCP      Reports
as per guidelines and    prepared
prepare reports      12/88, 11/89
and 7/90.
After HMG
and IDA
agreed
not to
implement
the project,
no report was
prepared.
DCA    Sch.4-Para 6    NC                              HMG to have Ministry of  Not Complied,
Forests carry out forestry    project not
_ _ _ _ _ __ _  supervision plan  implemented.



- 20 -
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Inspection Panel observed that the project did not comply with OM2.33 (Social Issues
Associated with Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects), effective at the time of
appraisal.
Table 11: Bank Resources, Staff Inputs
Proiect Stae                               Staff Weeks
Preparation                                    14.5
Appraisal                                      32.4
Negotiations                                   3.6
Supervision                                   43.8
ICR                                             0.0
Total                                         94.3
In addition to the above, IDA spent 747.9 staff weeks for the Arun III   Hydroelectric
Project, as follows:
Preparation          360.9  staff weeks
Appraisal            215.6  staff weeks
Negotiations         171.4  staff weeks
Total                747.9  staff weeks



- 21 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/  Number    Days    Specialized Staff     Performance Rating      Types of
Cycle         Year       of        in          Skills                                 Problems
Persons    Field     Represented
Inplementa-   Development
tion Status   Impact
Through
appraisal*
Appraisal through
Board approval**
Board approval
through effective-
ness
SupervisionL1      08/89       1         8            SP             (*)          (*)         (*)
03/90      5       22***   SP,PE,EE,ES, RS       (*)          (*)          (*)
4/95       3        17      PE, HE, RS (3),     HU            HU
ES (2)
Completion2                                  --          --
" SP: Systems Planner
PE: Power Engineer
EE: Energy Economist
ES: Environmental Specialist
RS: Resettlement Specialist
HE: Highway Engineer
21 No Implementation Completion Report preparation mission was undertaken.
(*) No Form 590 page 1 was attached to the Back-to-Office Reports. Only two Supervision Back-to-Office
Reports are included in the Project Files. The numerous Preparation Missions for the Arun III project also
mentioned status of implementation/non-implementation of ACRP for the access road.



- 22 -
ADDendix A
Review of the Arun III Hydroelectric Project Package by the Inspection Panel *
The Arun III HEP package included amendments to the Development Credit
Agreement for the Arun Access Road (Cr.2029-NEP).
Filing of a Request for Inspection with the     November 2, 1994
Inspection Panel (IP)
Registering by the Chairrnan and Request for
the Management's Response                       November 3, 1994
Management Response                             November 22, 1994
IP's First Memorandum to the Executive          December 16, 1994
Directors, recommending that "apparent
violations of policy do exist that require further
investigation"
Deliberations by the Executive Directors and    February 2, 1995
Authorization for Investigations
IDA Mission to Nepal                            April 1995
Management's Memorandum to IP about the         May 23, 1995
Summary of Conclusions of the April Mission
and Recommendations for Further Actions
IP's Final Memorandum to the President of IDA   June 21, 1995.
(IP's Final Report)
* The Panel issued its Operating Procedures in August 1994.



- 23 -
Appendix B
Excerpts from the News Release dated August 3. 1995
The Bank had always recognized the demands that a project of this size and complexity
would place on a small country like Nepal. Since the initial appraisal, the Bank had established
increasingly rigorous standards for the implementation of the project, and these reinforced initial
concerns about the burdens being placed on the Government. The Government recognizes these
constraints and had agreed to collaborate with capacity-building efforts recommended by the Bank's
management in 1995. However, the limited capacity of institutions in Nepal to implement the long
list of actions that would have to be taken to ensure success means that it could take up to five years
longer than originally anticipated for this highly complex project to be completed. Demanding tasks
relating to the operations and financial management of Nepal's power utility and the need to
implement effectively the social and environmental actions highlighted by the Inspection Panel, would
have imposed requirements which the Bank now judges to be beyond what Nepal could realistically
have achieved at present.
While there is support for Arun III, both among all Nepal's political parties and from most
of the residents of the valley, the Government would still have had to implement a number of
measures such as adjusting tariffs and prioritizing expenditures and sustained them over the next few
years to ensure that the project did not crowd out priority social expenditures. While not questioning
the Government's commitment to take these steps, the Bank recognized the difficulties inherent in
developing widespread popular support and understanding of such measures.
d)    In addition to the financing from the World Bank, the project had always depended on funds
being provided from several other sources. Some cofinancing partners did not feel they were in a
position to commit the necessary funds within the next 12 to 18 months. This extremely difficult
financing picture was further complicated by the fact that the estimated cost of the project had
increased by $30 to $40 million as a result of delays that have already been incurred. As a result, the
Bank felt there was no realistic prospect of firming up the financing plan in the near future.
SA2DR
M:\CEYHAN\NEPICR\ACCESSRD\FIN_DOC2.DOC
September 27, 1996 11.55 AM






MAKALU BARUN
NATIONAL PARK I
K  ~ ~   ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         C~~
VO          ~                                                                                         EUTAN
MA KALIU -
,,.  ,                   E~~~~~)ANGL
.  | >   1   9   ~~~~~~~~, 2                t  t   - ~~~~N  E P A  L
N,                                    Q                                      dwqzone J kARUN ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE ALIGNMENTS
IHLL ROUTE lke. Proj.ei und, Cr 2029-NEP.
VALLEY ROUTE
KILOMETER ALONG ROAD
,                  %_  7  ogCi;lEyorgLuh  ~  wbo    /   n  '     tFb_   BRIDGES (SEE LIST BELOW LEFT)
-lllll    DAM / INTAKE
/   >   e   wd>l  S.EhohIe;%   SA  2KHU         SABHA                                    U      POWERHOUSE
-*PANGFA   VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY
VDC
FORESTS PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED AS
a1\/   .   gndonl   |  (  <C D IST  Hr RAVING HIGH ECOLOGICAL VALUE.
HILL SAL
TROPICAL/SUBTROPICAL REFUGIUM
LOWER TEMPERATE -CLOUD- FORESTS
LOCAUTY ON ALIGNMENT WITH
SIGNIFICANT ECOLOGICAL VALUE:
V       FLORAL (VEGETATIONI
W       FAUNA ]WILDLIFE)
IAlGA   ll              2           _           (                                  B       BIRDS
.    \   z   ,   r                   1          r,    /                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING.
PAVED ROADS
-----GRAVEL ROADS
..   ( _ YDC          ' i                                 CONTOURS IN FEET
BHOJPUR                                                                                                   / , \ R g  ..   RIVERS / KHOLAS
-   he/erIcT '    -                         - ._   -   !   t  AIRPORT (WITH GRASS RUNWAY)
DISTRICT   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-*                                               LOCAL BUSINESS CENTERS /TOWNS
/  X|OrHo,    r  _hgdepr  0  VILLAGES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
'   . '   .   '  )  -H A K A N G      ....................................HAT. 'fHIO 
"  '   :, '''/<  '\Xf" o,\                                      DHANKUTA 
MAJOR BRIDGES. >   NKLUN  ,''_    
TOT. U ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       ~        0HHh~.                       
I MANAMAYA  189~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I    noFf..n
2. LEGUWVA             120                                                                                                                    IT ,
6. BILUWA              157i/,t~\~\1>~S> 
iB   B E T T H d        304        ,   \   \   /   /   |   i     1      t    ,       ,            _        ( c A i  )P A   -E TEfS R HASH       M
9T KAGUWA               30oGI&CHNNW                                                       AT, A                   -                               '
10. ARUN IPOWERHOU5E)  1250     ,                    ;           d                O      ,,         ,.,.i                    ',DSRt
2at ARUN lADff)         96-   ,-;
.   '        t          .  t t  - VDC                                      KU rA   J e t  D~~~~~M. h
'  tg   \X   oWtol6,   s ,       =              'DI$ TRICT    ',        \ThUdi OO
.                    ,           t S         4          ' . 0   oH^hoLRI      ,,ITj wm ,                             " CZ
k \ << , ,>s/9 jj9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05                                                     ,         __  a;,'
X                                                                              Is                      '                          t llOMETER7i 









IMAGING
Report No:       16037
Type: PCN



