Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7461-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
MAY 12, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resthicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatlon.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS UNITS
(As of May 1, 1988)
Currency Unit              =     Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Nepalese Rupee             -     100 paisa
US$1.00                    =     NRs 24.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)          247 acres (ac)
1 megawatt (MW)              =    1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
1 gigawatt (Gw)                   1,000,000 kilowatts (106kW)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)             1,000,000 kilowatt hours (lO6kWh)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)             1,000 watt-hours
1 ropani                     =    5.400 square feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRP    -    Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan
ARC     -    Acquisition and Rehabilitation Committee
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
DOR     -    Department of Roads
HMG     -    His Majesty's Government
IRR     -    Internal Rate of Return
LCGEP   -    Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan
MFSC    -    Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
MWR     -    Ministry of Water Resources
NEA     -    Nepal Electricity Authority
PPAR    -    Project Performance Audit Report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
FY89 = July 16 to July 15



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT  SUMMARY    ....................................-i
I.      INTRODUCTION   .............................................
II.     SECTORAL BACKGROUND   ......................................                               2
A    The Energy  Sector  .....................................                            2
B.   Transport Sector ......................................                              8
III.   THE PROJECT  ...... .... ....................................                             12
A.   Background  ........ ...................................                            12
B.   Objectives  ...... ... ..................................                           12
C.   Socio-Economic  Profile  of the Project Area  ....                    ........      12
D.  Description .............  .........                                                 13
E.  Cost Estimates  ........................................                             14
F.   Financing  .............................................                            16
G.   Procurement  ...........................................                            16
H.   Disbursement  ..........................................                            17
I.   Project Execution and Supervision  .....................                            18
J.   Environmental  Protection  and Conservation  ....                    .........      19
K.   Project Reporting  .....................................                            21
L.   Accounts  and Audits  ...................................                           21
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS  .............................                              22
A.   Background  ............................................                            22
B.   Future Electricity Demand  .............................                            22
C.   Base Case  Scenario  ....................................                           23
D.   Sensitivity Analysis  ..................................                            25
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
February 1988 and the post appraisal mission in May 1988. Mission
members included Mrs. Inai Bradfield (Sr. Economist, Mission Leader),
Messrs. Donal O'Leary (Systems Planner/Engineer), David Williams
(Environmental Specialist), and Richard Leonard (Highway Engineer,
Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
TEXT TABLES
5.1   Project Cost Summary .................. .......... ........        15
3.2 Financing Plan .16
3.3 Procurement Arrangements .16
ANNEXES
1     Design Standards ....................................              27
2   Estimated Disbursement Schedule .30
3     Arun III Project Monitoring Committee .                            31
4     Supervision of Construction, Terms of Reference .32
5     Environment Management Unit, Staffing and Work Program             37
6     Management of Environmental Impacts .41
7   Land Acquisition Guidelines 2045 .43
8     Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan ... ......       48
9   Economic Evaluation Methodology .56
to    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File          64
CHART
Chart 1   Organization of Project Implement%tion .65
Chart 2   Project Implementation Schedule .66
MAP: IBRD No. 21127



NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROA) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Kiagdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:   Nepal Electricity Authority, Ministry of Water Resources
and Department of Roads. Ministry of Works and Transport
Amount:           SDR 24.4 million (US$32.8 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:      The project would include construction of an access road,
192 km long, to the site of the proposed Arun III
hydroelectric development scheme, a road mairtenance depot
at Tumlingtar, and consultancy services for construction
supervision, training and for the preparation and
supervision of implementation of a land acquisition,
compensation ard rehabilitation plan.
Benefits and
Risks:            The project's benefits are in large measure related to
those of the proposed Arun III hydroelectric development
aeme, which is to fulfill Nepal's total power demands to
2010 at least cost. Tt would also provide developmental
access to an area presently served only by porterage
trails and inhabited by some half million people. The
main risks are delayed implementation of the hydroelectric
scheme, and its increased cost. However, adequate
safeguards are being provided to minimize such risks.
Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ million)-
Project Costs: a/
Road Construction                6.6     19.9    26.5
Maintenance Depot                0.1      0.1      0.2
Land Acquisition for ACRP        1.2      0.0      1.2
Consultancy Services for:
Construction Supervision       0.6      2.4      3.0
Training                       0.0      0.1      0.1
Preparation/ Implementa-
tion Supervision of ACRP      0.5       0.4      0.9
Base Costs                       9.0     22.9    31.9
Physical Contingencies           1.3      3.4      4.7
Price Contingencies              1.3      2.1      3.4
Total Project Cost          11.6      28.4    40.0
a/  Including taxes and duties of US$3.5 million.



- il -
Financing Plan:                        Local      Foreign       Total
-------(US$ million)---
Government                     7.2         -           7.2
IDA                            4.4       28.4         32.8
Total                  11.6        28.4        40.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 90        91       92        93        94
---------------(US$ million)---------…--
Annual                           12.2       9.0       6.5       3.5       1.6
Cumulative                       12.2      21.2      27.7      31.2      32.8
Economic Rate of Return;            142



NEPAL.
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRADUCTION
1.01     The project consists mainly of  the  access road to the future dam
site for the Arun III hydroelectric development scheme, needed to meet
Nepal's projected power demands through 2010 at least cost. Although the
project is an integral part of the hydroelectric scheme on which its
justification depends, it is proposed as a separate project to allow the
hydroelectric construction work to begin in early 1992. Preliminary and
final designs for the access road have been completed, together with the
initial phases of institutional and environmental studies.
1.02     Nepal's vast hydroclectriL potential is estimated at 83,000 MIW, of
which only 160 MW has been developed to date. In addition to the need to
cater for domestic demand, exploitation of this enormous resource as a
potential  export  earner  is  one   of  Nepal's  most  important  economic
priorities.  To achieve these objectives, His Majesty's Government (HMG) of
Nepal plans to: (a) in the medium term, identify and implement a series of
projects which would meet generation requirements at least cost for Nepal's
interconnected system, while at the same time, providing for increasing
bulk sales to India from the current level of 21 GWh per year to upwards of
400-800 GWh by year 2000; and (b) over the long-term, develop projects of
2,000 MW capacity or greater (such as Karnali and Pancheswar) to help meet
the load demand in Northern India.
1.03     Recently, IDA and  the  Canadian  International Development Agency
(CIDA) assisted HMG in developing a least cost generation expansion plan
(LCGEP) to determine priority investments on the basis of load forecasts
and standardized cost estimates for eight potential hydroelectric projects.
As a result of this study, the LCGEP identified, and HMG has proposed a two
stage (201 MW each) development of the Arun III hydroelectric scheme as the
next  generation  project  in  line   with  the  estimated  growth  of  the
electricity demand of Nepal's interconnected power system. The first stage
(1992-96), estimated to cost US$490 million, would ir.volve construction of
a dam, a tunnel, a power house and a switchyard. In the second stage (by
year 2003), the tunnel and generating capacity would be duplicated.
1.04     The optimum sequence of  investment  in  the  first stage Arun III
hydroelectric scheme was derived without consideration of the bulk export
option. However, potential benefits of the entire Arun III scheme could be
increased by accelerated implementation of its second stage development if
a satisfactory bulk export agreement with India to sell 200 MW at a 50S
capacity factor could be secured.



-2-
1.05     To ernsure that  the  first  stage  of  the  Arun III hydroelectric
scheme is commissioned by mid-1996, HMG and IDA have adopted a four-step
approach of providing: (a) construction of an access road (subject of this
report) to begin in October 1989 to permit transportation of construction
equipment in early 1992; (b) donor coordination to help HMG obtain
agreement to the LCGEP and preliminary commitments to finance the Arun III
hydroelectric scheme; (c) technical assistance under the Third Technical
Assistance Credit 1902-NEP to complete the final engineering for the first
phase Arun III hydroelectric scheme, prepare d transmission/distribution
master plan, conduct a long-run marginal cost and tariff study, and
strengthen institutional capabilities of the Nepal Electricity Authority
(NEA), the implementing agency; and (d) construction of the hydroelectric
plant  and  ancillary   items,   including   a  switchyard  and  connecting
transmission lines to the national grid, with a possible onward connection
to the Northern India grid. These activities form the basis of IDA's power
subsector strategy for Nepal, as indicated in the recent report Nepal:
Power Subsector Review (January 1988).
1.06     The feasibility  study  for  the  Arun  III  hydro2lectric scheme,
funded by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency, was completed in
1987. The final engineering, together with related studies, would be
completed by early  1990.    Based  on  the  study  findings,  the Arun III
hydroelectric schemie would be appraised in September 1990, with Board
presentation tentatively scheduled  for  April 1991.   Overall financing is
not yet final but ten donors made preliminary commitments amounting to
approximately US$590 million at the donor meeting on the Development of the
Nepal Power Subsector in May 1988 and subsequently at an Aid Group Meeting
in Paris in November 1988, more than sufficient to fund the first phase of
the Arun III hydroelectric scheme.
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Energy Sector
Energy Resources
2.01     Fuelwood.   Accounting for  80% of total energy supplies, fuelwood
is the basic source of energy for cooking and heating in rural areas where
the vast majority of the population  lives.   Forests cover some 38Z of the
total land area and are fairly evenly distributed. Fuelwood consumption
exceeds the sustainable annual yield of the forests, and if present trends
continue, the forests will be largely exhausted by the year 2000.
Government fuelwood policy is to reverse deforestation by taking action on
both supply and demand sides, including energy conservation. This is to be
achieved through an  afforestation  program,  improved watershed management
and  utilization  of  alternative  energy  technologies,  including biogas,
Lmini/micro  hydro  schemes,  solar   energy   devices  and  more  efficient
woodstoves.
2.02     Other Renewable Energy Sources.    Dung production by livestock is
estimated at 24.5 million  tons  per  year.    If convertel into methane in
biogas digesters, it has been estimated that dung could provide for the
cooking and lighting needs of an estimated 4CZ of the population. However,



the projected number of units in 1990 is only 3,400 which would generate an
insignificant methane yield.   AgriculturaL  waste  (straw, husks, etc.) is
widely used in rural and urban households and accounts for approximately 9Z
of total energy consumption.   Moreover,  there  may be scope for utilizing
wind  energy.    Solar  energy  applications,  so  far,  have  been limited
primarily to demonstration/pilot projects. The economic viability of solar
energy applications still has to be established.
2.03     Petroleum.  Although  no  oil  or  natural  gas reserves have been
discovered, the prospects for oil discoveries are considered to be quite
good. Following completion of the seismic program under an IDA-financed
petroleum exploration project (Credit 1260-NEP), an agreement on one of the
ten blocks offered by the Government was signed in May 1988. HMG plans to
open the remaining nine blocks to competitive bidding after more seismic
data have been obtained.
Energy Consumption
2.04     Data  on  energy  consumption  in   Nepal  suffer  from  gaps  and
inconsistencies, especially for traditional fuels.   However, they do point
to some very definite  trends.    The  relative  share of commercial energy
increased by 75Z to nearly 8% by FY85, probably mirroring economic growth
in  Nepal.    Hydroelectricity  accounts   for  only  about  2%  of  energy
consumption, but this represents a significant increase from its FY71 level
of  0.1%.    Overall,  the  trend  points  to  the  household  sector being
predominant in future total energy consumption, including traditional and
commercial sources, with the industrial sector playing an increasingly
important role.
Energy Supply
2.05     Energy imports  (electricity  from  India,  petroleum products and
coal)  have  been  rising   faster   than  internal  energy  production  of
traditional fuels and electricity.    The  result  has been that net energy
imports increased from 4.6Z of net energy supplies in 1970/71 to 6.1% in
1984/85. The rise in petroleum imports has been the main factor, but net
electricity imports also increased greatly from 12,000 tons of oil
equivalent in FY81  to  21,000  in  FY85.    Overall,  imports of petrol.eum
products, coal and electricity were equivalent to about 16-21% of export
earnings during FY81-FY85.
2.06     All imported energy supplies  are  purchased  from India (coal and
electricity) or have to be routed via India (petroleum products). Until
1973, all of Nepal's petroleum product imports were from India, but since
then Nepal has entered into international contracts with suppliers.
2.07     Until recently, coal was  imported  from India by licensed private
sector importers. Supply patterns have been erratic partly because of the
unavailability of rail wagons in India for private sector importers. This
situation is likely to improve with the recent formation of Nepal Coal
Limited which is expected to negotiate supplv contracts with the Indian
authorities.



-4-.
Energy Pricing
2.08     HMG controls the prices of all commercial energy sources.  Pricing
proposals for petroleum products and electricity are prepared by Nepal Oil
Corporation and NEA, respectively; these must then be approved by the
Cabinet. Coal prices are set by the Government of India. The pricing of
commercial fuelwood sold by the Fuelwood Corporation of Nepal is based on
its proposals and approved by the  Cabinet.   Prices of all forms of energy
have risen substantially in real terms since 1V73, but much more so for
imported energy (petroleum and coal) than for indigenous sources (fuelwood
and electricity), reflecting different Government policy approaches. For
petroleum products,  the  policy  has  been  to  adjust  domestic price- to
reflect the trend in international prices. In addition, taxes on petroleum
products are a major source of Government revenue. Coal is priced at its
border  price  of  supply,  but  is   exempt  from  any  taxes  or  duties.
Electricity prices are below the long-run marginal costs of supply; the
present average price of about NRs 1.39/kWh is only 42Z of the estimated
average long-run marginal costs of  NRs  3.27/kWh.   To address this tariff
issue,  consultants  were  appointed   in  December  1988  under  Technical
Assistance Credit 1902-NEP to prepare a long-run marginal cost and tariff
study. The study recommendations for changing tariff levels and structures
will be reviewed with HMG and NEA during preparation of the Arun III
hydroelectric scheme and agreements sought on appropriate tariff changes.
Despite the relatively low tariffs, preliminary estimates indicate that NEA
is in compliance with its rate of return agreement with IDA under the
Marsyangdi Hydropower Project (Credit 1478-NEP).
Hydropower
2.09     The Ministry of  Water  Resources  (MWR)  has estimated (1985) the
economically exploitable hydropower to  be  around  25,000  MW or abov . of
which about 20,000 MW have been investigated since 1966. Hydropower
development is hindered by relatively low levels of domestic demand which
do not justify projects that could take full advantage of economies of
scale. An added problem is the relatively weak hydrological data base which
increases the level of uncertainty in project analysis. There are also
technical impediments:   lack  of  access  roads,  difficult geological and
seismic conditions, extreme variation in river flows and heavy silt loads.
Some potential projects are also very large (3,000 MW or above) and depend
on developing bulk export markets in India.
2.10     A widespread use  of  traditional  water  mills  for grinding corn
indicates that there is considerable scope for developing micro-hydropower
schemes through individual or community  effort.    If all these mills were
replaced by dual-purpose mills (grinding corn and generating electricity),
they could be used to operate small power generators with an average
capacity of about 10 kW, giving a total potential of 300 MW. Analysis
indicates that dual-purpose micro-hydro units could form part of the least
cost solution for meeting rural energy needs and also provide high returns
for relatively modest investments by private sector entrepreneurs.



Institutions
2.11     Institutional responsibility for the  energy sector is spread over
many entities including overseeing ,ministries, line ministries, sector
entities and subsector entities.    The  Mi;n:-try of Finance is responsible
for coordinating and securing external sources of finance for development
assistance in the energy and other sectors. The Planning Commission, which
is responsible for national economic planning, reviews the energy sector
programs and projects, particularly in connection with the preparation of
the national five-year development plans.   The MWR, together with the NEA,
are responsible for electricity supplies. Other bodies are responsible for
the supply of fuelwood, coal, gas, and oil and for mini hydro-projects.
The Water and Energy Commission is responsible for, inter alia, the
preparation and coordination of short- and long-term plans for water and
energy development.
2.12     In the early part  of  Xhe  century, electricity was supplied from
small privately-owned generating plants, with expatriate management. The
Government did not assume control of public electricity supply until the
1950's when the Electricity Department was made responsible for electric
power development throughout the country and for the regulation of
privately-owned utilities. In 1962, the Nepal Electricity Corporation was
created.    However,  the  fragmentation  of  responsibility  and  lack  of
coordination  in  the   power   subsector   were  seriously  affecting  its
efficiency. In August 1985, the Government established a single public
enterprise, the NEA, with responsibility for the planning, construction and
operation of all future public power facilities in Nepal, with the
exception of isolated rural electrification projects.
Power Generation Planning and Project Identification
2.13     Although several generation  projects  had  been identified in the
mid-1980s, there was  uncertainty  concerning  the most economic generation
expansion program. NEA therefore developed a LCGEP with the assistance of
CIDA and IDA,1/ as follows:
(a)  standardized cost  estimates  were  prepared  for  eight candidate
hydroelectric projects (each of which had been studied to either
the prefeasibility or the feasibility level) plus a thermal
peaking option  (gas  turbines).    The  costs  attributed to each
project included associated transmission expenditures which were
not common to all expansion sequences.   All innuts were costed in
economic terms;
(b)  alternative expansion sequences, that satisfied the base case load
forecast for the Nepal interconnected system, were developed based
on combinations of the above-mentioned hydroelectric projects,
supplemented by peaking thermal generation, as required;
1/ Nepal Electricity Authority, Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan -
1987, Kathmandu, April 1987 (Report No. PD/SP/431124/3-2).



-6-
(c)  for each expansion sequence, the  present value of the capital and
operating costs, over the planning period, was determined, and the
least (economic) cost generation expansion program was identified;
and
(d)  sensitivity analysis was conducted  on  the least cost sequence to
variations in the load growth, opportunity cost of capital, fuel
prices, and generation planning criteria.
The analysis identified a combination of load management and the two-phase
402 MW Arun III hydroelectric scheme as the least-cost sequence to meet the
load forecast of Nepal's interconnected system.
2.14     The 228 m effective head Arun  III  scheme is located about 192 km
east of Kathmandu on  the  Arun  River  near  the  Chinese border (IBRD Map
21127).  The powerhouse site  is  about 133 km from the Dhankuta-Basantapur
road. According to the Japanese-financed feasibility study conducted by
the NEA,J/ the layout includes a 65 m high concrete gravity dam with a
lateral intake leading to underground desanding facilities and two power
tunnels. A gated spillway is provided for reservoir regulation and flood
passage. The study recommended two 11.35 km long power tunnels, leading to
an underground powerhouse. A surface switchyard is planned, with separate
tunnels for cables and access to the powerhouse.
2.15     The first  phase  Arun  III  hydroelectric  scheme,  planned to be
completed in 1996, is to meet the domestic demand which is projected to
reach 272 MW, and the second phase, in 2003. However, construction of the
intake desanding facilities, powerhouse chamber, transformer gallery and
tailrace tunnel portal would cater for both phases. Only the second power
tunnel, surge tank power shaft, penstocks, draft tubes and tailrace tunnel
are needed to be constructed in the expansion to 402 MW. The project's
economic merit could be substantially increased through developing the
complete scheme in one stage at an estimated total cost of US$650 million,
provided that satisfactory progress can be made on reaching agreement about
bulk exports to India.
2.16     Even though in nominal terms  the  entire Arun III scheme would be
the largest investment project ever to be undertaken in Nepal, its
'crowding out" impacts on other investments have been estimated to be
small, partly because it would be spread out over many years, and would not
significantly affect other  sectors'  development.2/    Its  impacts on the
1/  Nepal  Electricity  Authority.    Feasibility  Study  of  the  Arun III
Hydroelectric Power Development Project, Kathmandu, June 1987.
2/ See Markandya, A., The Macroeconomnic and Budgetary Impacts of the
Power Project in Nepal Over the Period 1989-1996 with Special Reference
to the Arun III Project Kathmandu, April 1988, which is available in
the project file.    This  document  was  prepared  under UNDP Contract
NEP/80/006.



-7-
Government account are also generally  small.    However, its impact on the
external  account  would  be  much   more  favorable  if  the  scheme  were
implemented in one phase with power exports to India.
2.17     The Arun  III  hydroelectric  scheme  involves international water
rights issues. The project is located on the Arun River, which originates
in China and flows into Nepal where it joins the Koshi River. It then
flows into India and becomes part of the Ganges River which empties into
the Bay of Bengal. With regard to India, Nepal's right to use the water of
the Arun River is covered by an agreement between the Government of India
and HHG on the Koshi Project, dated April 25, 1954, as amended on December
19, 1966, which does not require formal notification regarding the project
component. The Government oi China raised no objections in response to
IDA's indication that it was considering supporting development of the
proposed Arun III hydroelectric scheme.
2.18     Since the hydroelectric dam site is  located at the end of the 192
km access road, an assessment was needed of resettlement and environmental
impacts of the overall development.   Resettlement  is not expected to be a
major problem for the Load and power projects because only a limited number
of households will be physically displaced by the selected road alignment
and no households are located at the dam and powerhouse sites. The major
resettlement issue is to identify the possible economic impacts of the
proposed land acquisition procedures on individual families and to develop
separate action plans for the access road project (para. 3.30) and the
hydroelectric scheme (to be implemented by the NEA), to ameliorate negative
impacts in accordance with IDA guidelines. For the first phase in the Arun
III hydroelectric scheme, an action plan satisfactory to IDA, will be
prepared as part  of  the  detailed  engineering,  financed under Technical
Assistance Credit 1902-NEP.
2.19     Physical environmental  resettlement  issues  for  the access road
were addressed as part of the detailed road engineering study (paras. 3.26
and 3.27). For the hydroelectric scheme, the environmental issues relate
primarily to: (a) the ecology of aquatic species- and (b) the need to
minimize the possible erosion and sedimentation problems, and the long-term
impact of the project works (including the work camps). The terms of
reference for the detailed engineering study of the hydroelectric scheme
require NEA to address these and other related issues, including the
development of appropriate action plans that are consistent with IDA
guidelines.
Preparation of the Arun III Hydroelectric Scheme
2.20     HMG has  requested  IDA  to  take  the  lead  in  coordinating the
financing for the Arun III hydroelectric scheme. The four-step approach
outlined in para. 1.05 is intended to achieve the objective of completing
the first phase Arun III hydreelectric scheme by 1996 and strengthening the
institutional capabilities and financial position of NEA. The project road
construction schedule is phased to provide access to the Arun III dam site
from Tumlingtar by January 1992 and from the road-head at Basantapur by
January 1993.  To complete the  four  studies by early 1990 under Technical



-8-
Assistance Credit 1902-NEP, with Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Federal
Republic of Germany) parallel financing, all consultants were appointed in
January 1989, including the engineering consultants wlo began work in
December 1988. An important remaining step is the development by IDA of a
detailed viable financing plan, satisfactory to 1HMG and the donors who made
preliminary commitments for the first phase Arun III hydroelectric scheme.
Previous Power Subsector Operations
2.21     In the power subsector,  the  Kulekhani Hydropower Project, 60 MW,
(Credit 600-NEP) was successfully completed in 1985 (PPAR No. 6177), and
implementation   of   the    Marsyangdi    Hydropower   Project,   69   MW,
(Credit 1478-NEP) is progressing well after initial procurement delays. In
addition, IDA is also sponsoring the development of potential regional
export projects through the feasibility study for the Karnali scheme
(Credit 1452-NEP) and the prefeasibi±ity work for the Pancheswar project as
well   as   a   long-run   marginal   cost   and   tariff   study   and   a
transmission/distribution   master   plan    under   Technical   Assistance
Credit 1902-NEP. As an integral part of the past and on-going projects,
IDA has supported the creation and development of the NEA.
B. Transport Sector
General
2.22     For more than a century  prior  to 1951, Nepal maintained a policy
of isolation from the  rest  of  the  world.    Partly  as a result of this
policy, but mainly because of the formidable difficulties of internal
communications, the country is still in the early stages of economic
development. There is little interdependence between the economies of the
scattered valleys; the country produces few exportable commodities, and no
significant exploitable natural resources other than hydroelectric power
potential have been  discovered.    Such physical characteristics, combined
with the high costs of transport resulting from its mountainous terrain and
land-locked position, have limited Nepal's opportunities co participate in
the international economy.
Road Network
2.23     In 1987, the  highway  network  totaled  about  6,330 km, of which
about 2,800 km were paved, 1,820 km were gravel and 1,708 km were
unimproved earth roads (the project file contains a detailed description of
roads and  road  transport).    All  of  the  surfaced  roads  and  a large
proportion of the earth roads are the responsibility of the Department of
Roads (DOR) under the Ministry of Works and Transport; the remainder are
under the jurisdiction of the panchayats or local governments. The three
mair. national roads are:   (a) the  north-south road from the Indian border
at Birgunj to Kathmandu and then on to the Chinese (Tibet) border; (b) the
East-West Highway located in the Terai which, when completed in about 1990,
will traverse the entire breadth of the country (1,040 km). A number of
local roads in the Terai are not linked to the basic systems. Vast areas
of the hills and mountains as well as parts of the Far Western Terai are
not served by roads at all. Sections of the road to China were washed out
during the 1987 and 1988 monsoons.



-9-
2.24     Nepal's daunting topography and  climate are the major impediments
to inexpensive and  reliable  transport.    They  create  a  set of adverse
conditions unparalleled in the world.   As if the terrain were not obstacle
enough, the many streams and rivers are seasonally swollen by the monsoon
rains and make conditions for transport even more difficult, and conditions
for road construction and maintenance exceptionally trying. Destructive
floods frequently occur in July and August when rainfall coincides with
snowmelt in the Himalayas causing extensive damage to roads, bridges and
iLrigation structures.
2.25     Few road networks in the world are more difficult to maintain than
that of Nepal. Some roads traverse tropical plains in extreme heat and
monsoonal flooding, some are perched on mountainsides subject to the
opposite climatic extremes of  ice  and  snow.   The steep, unstable slopes
often give way to landslides, another hazard for both the road builder and
user. A consequence cf originally poor pavement designs and DOR's past
inability to cope with maintenance work effectively has resulted in the
deterioration of many sections of the road r.etwork to a state where they
cannot be restored to good condition by routine maintenance procedures.  In
response to these needs, a number of donors, including IDA, are providing
financial and technical assistance to rehabilitate key sections of the main
road network and to train DOR staff to improve maintenance planning,
management and operations (para. 2.36).
2.26     The estimated revenues  from  road  user  charges  amounted to NRs
370.5 million in 1983/84 Rnd NRs 421.1 million in 1984/85, increasing to
NRs 470 million in 1985/86.   Overall, revenues from road user charges were
more than twice total maintenance expenditures in 1983/84, three times
maintenance expenditures in 1984/85 and 4.5 times maintenance expenditures
in 1985/86.   The  margini above  maintenance  expenditures  covered 27% of
construction expenditures in 1984/84, 45X in 1984/85 and 702 in 1985/86.
The estimated desirable levels of road maintenance expenditures vary from
NRs 250 million to NRs 300 million  p.a.,   which are from 1.9 to 2.6 times
higher than the actual budgetary allocations in 1985/86 and 1986/87. The
total collected revenues of NRs 470 million would still be in excess of the
desirable levels of maintenance expenditures indicated above.
Civil Aviation
2.27     To provide access to  remote  and  otherwise inaccessible parts of
the country, HMG  has  given  a  high  priority  to  communications by air.
Adequate air transport is not only a convenient, if high cost, means of
integrating the country, but is  also  essential  if tourism is to develop.
The GovPrnMcr,L-uwed Royal Nepalese Airlines Corporation serves eight
international airports and 24 domestic air fields by scheduled services and
an additional  eight  landing  strips  by  charter  flights.   Despite past
domestic traffic growth, the potential of civil aviation has not been fully
realized.    Short  take  off  and  landing  aircraft  could  be  used more
extensively to provide social services in areas difficult to access by
surface transport. However, many factors, including shortages of equipment
and spare parts, poor navigational and landing facilities and the monsoon
rains, have had the combined effect of closing more than half the domestic
airports during the monsoon season (June-October) and contributing to
unreliable services all year round.



-10-
Railroads
2.28     There are three short,  separate,  narrow  gauge railroad lines in
Nepal: the Janakpur line (53 km), built in 1927; the Nepal Railroad lines
(8 km); and  the  Koshi  line  (35  km).  The  Janakpur  line,  which is an
extension of the Indian Railways network from Janakpur, principally carries
about 1.5 million pilgrims from India who visit the shrines in Janakpur, to
which there is no alternative  land  transport.    The Nepal line, which no
longer operates, is also an extension of the Indian Railways, extending
from Raxaul to Birgunj, built mainly to transport bulk cargoes. The Koshi
line, originally built to transport construction materials to the Koshi
River Barrage, now operates only seasonally to transport materials for its
maintenance.
2.29     Proposals for the  development  of  various  rail  lines have been
advanced from time to time.    In  general, they stem from the Government's
desire to promote electric traction (railways, ropeways and trolley buses)
to utilize the country's large hydroelectric potential and helping to
conserve the scarce foreign exchange now expended on importing costly
petroleum.   Studies  show,  however,  that  new  lines  or  improvement of
existLng ones would not be economically viable to carry forecasted traffic.
Ropeways
2.30     Apart from porterage, the  first  ropeway,  built in 1928 to serve
the Kathmandu corridor was, for many years, the only means of transporting
freight to and from the Kathmandu Valley. The present ropeway between
Kathmandu and Hetauda, which was opened in April 1964, has a length of
42 km and is used mainly for bulk commoditiec.
Waterways and Maritime Transport
2.31     Because of  the  nature  of  Nepal's  mountainous  topography, the
seasonality  of  rainfall  and   fast-flowing   rivers  with  se.ere  draft
restrictions, the use of waterways as a mode of transportation is limited.
A few rivers in the Terai area are navigable by small craft and some
movement of grain by this means takes place to and from India. More
recently, encouraging results have been obtained from the experiments with
a jet barge (1.5 ton carrying  capacity)  on several rivers.  HMG, with the
assistance of United Nations Development Programme and IDA, is planning to
carry out rock blasting and/or removal on the Karnali and Arutn rivers to
create navigable channels.
Transport Coordination and Planning
2.32     All modern modes of transport are regulated and/or operated by the
Ministry of Works and Transport.    Because  of the relative infancy of the
transport system and the dominant position of roads, problems of inter-
modal competition are minimal.   Proposed  investment plans are reviewed by
the Planning Commission and final approval for implementation is given by
the Ministry of Finance. Priorities are dictated firstly by the desire for
national integration, then on the need to give access to the Hill areas.
Traffic counting is sporadic but improving with the establishment of the
Planning and Monitoring Cell (para. 2.36).



Organization and Regulation
2.33     There are few restrictions on  the  licensing of trucks and buses,
and there is an abundance of truck and bus operators throughout the
country. There are no regulations governing vehicle weights and dimtensions
due to the absence of a legal framework. Although vehicle dimensions are
not regulated, the rugged terrain has, in the past, limited the operation
of vehicles to not much larger than 5-8 ton nominal capacity trucks though
vehicle weights are increasing on the flatter routes. HMG is carrying out
a study on axle loads to provide a basis for drafting required legislation
gLverning axle loads and vehicle dimensions.    A road user charge study is
also being undertaken to help HMG devise means to retrieve from the
operators a propoltion of the costs of the increased wear and tear that
heavier vehicles inflict on the road pavements.
Previous Transport Sector Operations
2.34     The proposed credit would be the fifth IDA operation for transport
in Nepal, the previous four also being largely for roads. The first,
Credit 223-NEP (US$2.5 million), effective in February 1971, financed the
replacement of five road bridges, the construction of five pedestrian
suspension bridges for porter traffic, a four-year road maintenance program
and  consulting  services  and  technical  assistance.    The  project  was
satisfactorily completed in June 1977 but not without considerable delays
due to shortages of materials and inefficiencies in administration (PPAR
No. 2016 of April 7, 1978).
2.35     The second, Credit 730-NEP  (TJS$17.0  million), closed on June 30,
1985. It comprised the upgrading of about 18 km of a mountainous section
of the main road from India to Kathmandu, the construction of about 50 km
of feeder roads, the procurement of construction equipment for use by the
feeder road contractors, consultancy services for technical and economic
studies of further roads and a training program for mechanics. During
implementation, the project suffered from long delays in procurement and
poor contractor performance.   Training  of mechanics similarly encountered
problems of long delays, administrative chaos and poor performance of the
instructors (PPAR No. 6296-NEP of June 20, 1986).
2.36     The third project,  Credit  1515-NEP  (US$47.5  million), is still
under implementation. It comprises the construction of 204 k1n of road to
complete the East-West Highway, the construction of about 60 km of feeder
roads.    The  rehabilitation  of  82 km  of  the  Kathmandu-Birgunj  road,
including  several  bridges,  the   procurement  of  road  maintenance  and
materials testing equipment, consulting services and technical assistance
and training. The training to the Planning and Monitoring Cell in DOR is
to help it improve its capabilities to undertake economic planning and
project evaluation in addition to maintenance planning and highway designs.
The  project  suffered  from   initial   delays,  but  is  now  progressing
satisfactorily.    The  fourth  Credit,  the  Flood  Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1922-NEP, US$15.5 million), approved in June 1988, became effective
in January 1989. It will finance the first three years of HMG's emergency
flood  rehabilitation  program,  consisting   of  flood  protection  works,
bridges, culverts, causeways, roads and technical assistance for consulting
services.



-12-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.0.     The first critical element in  the  chain of activities needed for
the commissioning of the planned hydroelectric scheme on the Arun R'.ver iz
access to  the  construction  site.    Eight  route  alignment options were
analyzed in the feasibility studies of an access road completed in 1987.
The final alignment selected for the access road is the least cost
environmentally sound option,  having  the  added  advantages of traversing
ridges with minimum risks  of  washouts  and  serving the hill inhabitants.
The final engineering for the  access  road  was completed in 1988.  Design
standards are given in Annex 1 and  are satisfactory for this type of road,
being similar to the standards used for the road from Dharan to Basantapur.
The consultants assisted  DOR  with  the  bidding  documents and contractor
prequalification, and will assist with bid evaluation.
B. Objectives
3.02     The main objectives of the project are to:
(a) provide access for personnel, materials and equipment to the Arun
hII hydroelectric construction site by the provision of an all-
weather road for vehicles;
(b)  strengthen  HMG  capabilities   to  administer  rehabilitation  of
families  affected  by   the   project  and  manage  environmental
protection and conservation measures; and
(c) reduce the cost of transporting goods between the agricultural but
food deficit areas of the Koshi Hills and the more industrialized
and productive Terai.
C. Socio-Economic Profile of the Project Area
3.03     The  project  area,  known  as  the  Koshi  Hills,  comprises  the
Districts of Sankhuwasabha, Terhathum, part of Dhankuta and part of
Taplejung,  with  a  total   estimated   population  of  one-half  million.
Agriculture is the main source of employment, followed by trading and
cottage industry, notably brass work in Chainpur.
3.04     During 1985-86, it was estimated  that 95,060 hectares of land was
under cultivation. Of this area, 45% was devoted to maize, 33? to paddy,
132 to millet, 5? to wheat and 4? to potatoes. Of the crops produced,
potatoes by far were the most productive crop per hectare cultivated.
Potatoes are grown in relay with other crops, except at the highest
altitudes, where they are the main staple crop of the inhabitants. In
addition to staple crops, more than 150,000 citrus trees are currently
producing fruit.
3.05     The Koshi Hills  area  primarily  exports  citrus fruit, potatoes,
medicinal herbs, and cardamom to the Terai using porters since there are no
motorable roads in the Arun Valley.   In the Hills, Chainpur is a center of
wholesale and retail activities, including sales of livestock, mainly,



-13-
sheep and goats. Food grains grown in the Terai are imported to the Hills
in small quantities. Transport costs by porterage are high and it takes
four to ten days to travel to and from the project area to the major
trading center in Dharan.
D. Description
3.06     To achieve its objectives, the project comprises:
(a)  a gravel-surfaced road, 192  km  long,  from  near  the end of the
existing Dharan-Basantapur road to the Arun III hydroelectric
construction site, including a 6 km spur road to the commercial
and administrative center of Chainpur (US$33.2 million);
(b)  a road maintenance depot at Tumlingtar (US$0.2 million) to support
maintenance of the project road and monitor maintenance operations
carried out by contractors;
(c)  rehabilitation  of  the   families   adversely   affected  by  the
construction of the access road through implementation of a Land
Acquisition,   Compensation,   and   Rehabilitation   Plan  (ACRP)
(US$1.6 million); and
(d)  consultancy   services    for:    (i)   construction   supervision
(US$3.7 milJion); (ii) the training of DOR maintenance personnel
(US$O.l million); and (iii) the preparation and implementation
supervision of the ACRP (US$1.2 million).
3.07     Access Road.  The gravel surfaced road would start at a point near
the end of the existing road at Basantapur, and run via Mamling, Kharang,
Tumlingtar, Khandbari and Chhyangkuti to the sites of the powerhouse, adit
and intake works at the dam located near Num. The spur to Chainpur starts
from a point near Kharang (IBRD  Map  21127).   The gravel pavement will be
4.5 m wide on a 6.5 m formation.
3.08     The  route  selected  as   being   most  economical  in  terms  of
construction and maintenance, consistent with sound environmental planning,
is in mountainous terrain and follows the ridges wherever possible,
descending only for crossings of the Piluwa Khola near Chainpur, the
Sabhaya Khola at Tumlingtar and at the sites of the powerhouse, adit and
dam. The streams and rivers of this area are unpredictable and can be very
violent and destructive. They cause excessive steepening of the valley
sides and consequent instability of  the  slopes.   The route has therefore
been chosen to avoid rivers as far as possible, and to follow the contours
closely in order to minimize the quantities of cut and fill, and to reduce
negative  environmental  impact.        The   contract   documents  for  road
construction   also   incorporate   environmental   conservation   measures
(para 3.26).
3.09     Construction will involve large amounts of rock excavation, and in
order to provide stability for the road, substantial lengths of retaining
structures consisting of rock-filled gabions or cement-mortared masonry
would be built. Bridges would be of concrete or modu,lar steel construction
on concrete abutments, designed to carry hydropower construction traffic.



-14-
More permanent works to the road would be included in the proposed Arun III
hydroelectric scheme to accommodate heavier construction-related traffic
expected in later years (1993 and onwards).   There would be only one major
bridge, about 100 m long, spanning the Sabhaya Khola at Tumlingtar. At
critical points, river training works to  protect the road and bridges from
scour would be constructed.
3.10     Road Maintenance Depot.   DOR's  nearest road maintenance facility
is one financed by IDA  under  the Second Highway Project (Credit 730-NEP),
located at Itahari, ebout 250 km from the dam site. Provision is made
under the project for a maintenance  depot  to be built in the project area
at Tumlingtar.    The  depot  comprises  adm;.nistrative  offices, stores, a
workshop for the repair and maintenance oi Zhicles and sleeping quarters.
The depot, to be built as part of the road construction package, would be
initially utilized by the road contractor as a base camp where construction
equipment and vehicles would be serviced during the contract period.
3.11     Resettlement.       To    provide    necessary   compensation   and
rehabilitation measures for the population whose land, buildings and means
of livelihood would be either temporarily or permanently affected by the
road/dam construction, the project includes implementation of an ACRP. The
ACRP contains an overall plan for the resettlement to be carried out under
the project as well as details on the nature and magnitude of the
operation,  compensation  packages   offered   to  the  affected  families,
development plans for relocation sites, transfer/transport arrangements,
implementation timetable and costs.  .he legislative basis for implementing
the ACRP is contained in the Land Acquisition Guidelines 2045 approved by
HMG on January 5, 1989.
3.12     Technical Assistance.  Provision is made under the project for the
costs of:
(a) supervision of the contractor by DOR's consultant;
(b)  training  of  DOR   road   maintenance  personnel  and  mechanics.
Training would be carried out at the training center set up by DOR
with the assistance of consultants at Patan Dhoka near Kathmandu.
The initial training will be followed by further training on the
job at the existing workshops at Itahari and Butwal; and
(c)  preparation  and  implementation   supervision   of  the  ACRP  by
consultants.
E. Cost Estimates
3.13     The estimated total  cost  of  the  project,  summarized below, is
US$40  million,  including  taxes  and   duties  of  US$  3.5  million  and
contingencies of US$ 8.2 million.    The  foreign  exchange cost is US$28.4
million. The costs shown for the road construction works and for the
maintenance depot are based on mid-1989 prices and final quantities derived
from detailed engineering. Although too small to be itemized in the table,
the costs of staffing the Environmental Management Unit within DOR ($5,000)
and the Project Implementation Unit (US$5,000) are included in the total.



-15-
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
--N Rupees (Million)--   ----US$ (Million)-----  Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total  Costs %
Road Construction    160       485       645      6.57    19.87   26.44    75
Mainter.ance Depot      2        2          4     0.09      0.09    0.18    50
Land Acquisition
for ACRP             30        -        30      1.21      -       1.21      -
Construction Super-
vision by Cons.      15       58        73      0.60     2.39    2.99    80
Technical Assis.
Training              0        2         2       -       0.09    0.09   100
Preparation and
Supervision
of ACRP              13       10        23      0.52     0.42    0.94    45
Base Costs            219      558       777      8.99    22.86   31.85    72
Physical
Contingency           33       84       117      1.35     3.43    4.78    72
Price Contingency      32       50        82      1.31     2.06    3.37    61
Subtotal
Contingencies         65      134       199      2.66     5.49    8.15    67
Total Project Cost   284       692       976    11.65    28.35   40.00    71
_w=  ===   ===    ===    ~====    ==s=    ==
3.14     Price escalation for the three-and-a-half year construction period
has been calculated based on !DA estimates of inflation rates as follows:
41 p.a. foreign for the entire period and 72 local for FY89, thereafter at
6% p.a.    A  15Z  physical  contingency  has  been  included  to allow for
unforeseen increases in quantities and cost overruns.
3.15     The  foreign  exchange  component  of  the  road  works  has  been
estimated at 75Z, assuming the work will be executed by foreign contractors
with some subcontracting by local firms.   This percentage, the 802 foreign
exchange for supervision and 100I for technical assistance and training are
based on similar services provided under the Third Highway Project
(Credit 1515-NEP).    The  supervision  costs  are  based  on  the existing
contract rates and include 1,040 staff-months of local staff at US$1,000
equivalent per month and 217 staff-months of foreign staff at US$12,500 per
month, including travel and subsistence.



-16-
F. Financing
3.16     The Borrower would be  the  Kingdom  of  Nepal.   The proposed IDA
credit of US$32.8 million would finance 100X of foreign costs and about 382
of local costs, or about 82% of total project costs and would be passed on
to DOR as budgetary  allocations.    HMG  would  provide US$7.2 million, or
about 62Z of the project's local costs, from (DOR) budgetazy resources.
3.17     The proposed financing plan is summarized as follows:
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
---      (US$ Millions)----
IDA         HMG        TOTAL
Foreign                              28.4         0.0        28.4
Local (Excl. Taxes & Duties)          4.4         3.7         8.1
Taxes and Duties                      0.0         3.5         3.5
Total                                32.8         7.2        40.0
During negotiations, it was agreed  that eligible expenditures up to US$3.3
million for all categories would be financed retroactively from January 31,
1989.
G. Procurement
3.18     Procurement arrangements for the project components are summarized
below:
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
--------------US$ (million)-------------
Project Components               ICB            OTHER          TOTAL
1. Civil Works                   33.2 (27.6)       -           33.2 (27.6)
2. Maintenance Depot              0.2  (0.2)       -            0.2 ( 0.2)
3. Consultancy Services            -             4.9 (4.9)      4.9 ( 4.9)
4. Training                                      0.1 (0.1)      0.1 ( 0.1)
5. Land Acquisition for ACRP       -             1.6            1.6
Total                        33.4 (27.8)    6.6 (5.0)    40.0 (32.8)
NOTE: All costs include contingencies.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by IDA.
3.19     The civil works contract, to include both the road and maintenance
depot, will be awarded after international competitive bidding among
prequalified  contractors  in  accordance   with  IDA/Bank  Guidelines  for
Procurement.   In order to  minimize  the risk of delay to the construction
schedule and hence to the hydroelectric scheme, the procurement procedures



-17-
included a prequalification exercise, as well as a stringent post-
qualification of tenderers.   The  prequalified  firms have been invited to
submit detailed technical proposals along with their priced bids. Each
technical proposal will be scrutinized to ensure that it meets all the
requirements of the contract and that construction methods and programs are
realistic, achievable and environmentally  sound.   If a technical proposal
is deemed not acceptable and realistic, the bid will be rejected. Award
will be made to the tenderer with lowest evaluated bil, having also ar,
acceptable technical proposal.   Evaluation of the civil works bids will be
carried out by consultants on behalf of DOR to ensure timely award of
contracts.
3.20     All awards for contracts financed by IDA would be subject to prior
review by IDA. A preference of 7.5% would be given to domestic contractors
in the evaluation of the civil works contract.
H. Disbursement
3.21     Disbursements from  the  credit  proceeds  would  be  made  on the
following basis:
- 83% of total expenditures for civil works;
- 100% of total expenditures for consulting services and training.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown at Annex 2 and summarized as
follows:
IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA
Disbursement               90          91        92         93       94
----------------US$ Million-
Annual                     12.2        9.0       6.5        3.5      1.6
Cumulative                 12.2       21.2      27.7       31.2     32.8
Although the road construction work  is  expected  to be completed in 1993,
the final payment would not be made to the contractor until 12 months after
the completion of the road when the contractor's required maintenance
period under the contract would be over in January 1994. Still, the
disbursement period is shorter than the seven-year disbursement profile of
Nepal.    However,  the  short  disbursement  period  is  dictated  by  the
requirement to have the entire stretch of the road open for traffic by
early 1993 and can be achieved through measures recommended under the
project. Full documentation would be required by IDA to support withdrawal
applications  for  all   expenditures   under   contracts  above  US$2^,000
equivalent. Certified statements of expenditure would be used for all
expenditures under contracts less than US$20,000 equivalent. The accounts
and documentation in support of statements of expenditure would be retained
by DOR and made available to IDA supervision missions on request. To the
extent possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Association. The project
completion date is January 31, 1994, including the contractor maintenance
period, and the closing date will be July 31, 1994.



-18-
3.22     Special Account.  A Special  Account would be established at Nepal
Rastra Bank to facilitate payment of eligible expenditures. This account
would be maintained in US Dollars with an authorized allocation of
US$2,200,000, representing an estimated average of four month expenditures
and would cover  all  categories.    Except  for  expenditures greater than
US$500,000 that would greatly deplete the Special Account, it is expected
that all expenditures would be channelled through this Account. Statements
of expenditure documentation and the Special Account would be subject to
audit (para. 3.33).
I. Project Execution and Supervision
3.23     Project  Monitoring  Committee.        To  provide  overall  project
management and  coordination,  HMG  has  established  and  will  maintain a
Project Monitoring Committee under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Water Resources. As a member of the Committee, DOR has been designated to
act as executing agency and would approve procurement of the civil works
contracts and consultancy services, and report to the Committee which would
monitor progress  on  project  implementation.    During  negotiations,  HMG
confirmed that the Project  Monitoring  Committee has been established; the
composition of the Committee is listed in Annex 3 (para. 5.01).
3.24     Project Implementation  Unit.    Project  super-vision  will be the
responsibility  of   the   Project   Manager   appointed   to  the  Project
Implementation Unit  established  within  DOR.    The  rosition  of Project
Manager would be filled and kept filled with an incumbent of DOR on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA.   A suitable manager has been appointed
by DOR. The organization for implementation, agreed in March 1989, is
shown in Chart 1, and the implementation schedule is shown in Chart 2. The
Project Implementation Unit would be assisted by supervising consultants,
and  during  negotiations,   the   terms   of  reference  for  construction
supervision (Annex 4) were found acceptable by IDA (para. 5.01). It is
proposed that the supervision contract be awarded on a sole source basis by
the design consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA as their
performance on the access road feasibility studies and detailed engineering
has been  satisfactory.    Their  appointment  would  be  justified  on the
strength of their intimate knowledge of site conditi.is, their presence on
site and their involvement with the design work.
3.25     Maintenance of the Project Road.  Maintenance of the road from the
end of construction until the completion of the first phase hydroelectric
scheme would be undertaken by the hydropower construction contractor(s),
who would be responsible for handing over the road in good condition at the
end of the  contract  period.    It  may  be  appropriate  to continue with
contractor maintenance in the event that the second phase of the Arun III
hydroelectric scheme proceeds following the  completion ot its first phase.
DOR would assume the responsibility of maintaining the project road as a
part of the national highway network after the completion of the Arun III
hydroelectric scheme.   During  negotiations,  an understanding was reached
that under the terms of the contract, the road contractor would only be
responsible for the rectification of defects during the first ycar after
completion of the road and the hydropower construction contractor would
undertake routine maintenance from completion of road construction to the
completion of the hydroelectric scheme.



-19-
J. Environmental Protection and Conservation
3.26     Environmental Safeguards Imposed on  Contractor.  The construction
of a new road in the mountainous terrain would involve cutting and filling
which, until vegetation is restored, would scar the countryside. However,
to minimize the damage to adjacent fields and property and to ensure the
stability of the road, the  road  alignment adopted would follow the ridges
as much as possible. Moreover, in order to minimize deforestation, provide
a supply of fuelwood for cooking and heating to the labor force and
nutrition  and  medical  facilities,   the  tender  documents  require  the
following:
(a)  bidders to furnish information on  the  size  of labor force to be
employed and the  location  and  layout  of  labor  base camps and
intermediate camps at  the  time  of  the  submission of technical
proiposals;
(b)  the contractor  to  provide  guarded  fuelwood  stocks  from legal
sources close to work-gang activities or alternatively, to utilize
kerosene stoves for cooking and non-wood fuel at base and
intermediate camps for construction purposes;
(c) fair price shops for serving the work force to be established at
convenient intervals along the right of way, constructed by the
contractor and leased to local operators;
(d) the contractor to provide mobile medical facilities at places near
the construction site; essential health services to be provided
free to the work force; and
(e) to avoid the danger of deforestation, the contractor is to erect
control gates: (i) at Basantapur; (ii) immediately north of
Khandbari; and (iii) at Num. They would be manned 24 hours a day
by  the   contractor's   staff   during   the   entire  period  of
construction.   The  staff  would  immediately  report any illegal
movement of timber by wheeled vehicles to the contractor, the
supervising  engineer  and  the   Ministry  of  Forests  and  Soil
Conservation (MFSC).
3.27     At the end of the construction period, control of the gate at Num
covering the Sagarmatha National Park and the buffer zone and intensified
supervision of the whole Arun Valley from Basantapur to the Sagarmatha Park
buffer zone would be undertaken by  MFSC.    A Forestry Action Plan for the
Arun Watershed has been prepared and contains the supervision plan for the
area noting the number of forest inspectors to be provided, their
operational plan and equipment  needed.        During negotiations, the action
plan by MFSC for the control of illegal logging was discussed and found
acceptable by IDA. In addition, an understanding was reached that the road
construction contractor would be responsible for the operation of required
control gates during the contract period, and the MFSC would be responsible
after completion of the construction contract. With all these safeguards,
the project would not result in environmental deterioration but would
provide an opportunity to improve management of environmental problems.



-20-
3.28     Environmental Management Unit in  DOR.    Because of the important
increasing knowledge being accumulated on the relationship between natural
systems and development projects and the impact of development projects on
human settlement, DOR has agreed to establish, maintain and staff an
Environmental Management Unit to carry out inter alia: (a) preparation of
environmental impact assessments of road development projects; (b) review
overall work programs of DOR with respect to environmental issues and
social impact; and (c) preparatinn of planning and engineering practices
and procedures for road projects consistent with environmental and social
requirements. During negotiations, i4G furnished a detailed proposal to
IDA for the Staffing and Work Program of the Environment Management Unit in
DOR.  T'he establishment of  an Environmental Management Unit, including the
appointment of the required staff, was a condition of effectiveness.
However, IDA was informed that such unit had already been established and
staff hired. During negotiations, an understanding was reached that the
Environmental Management Unit will pursue the objectives and have the
organization and budget, as set forth in the Staffing and Work Program
contained in Annex  5,  which  is  satisfactory  to  IDA.   Therefore, this
condition was considered complied with and deleted from the Credit
Agreement (para. 5.01).
3.29     Management of Environmental Impact.  Environmental studies for the
Upper Arun Valley will be undertaken as part of the Arun III hydroelectric
scheme to:    (a)  to  conserve  the  forest,  scarce  and valuable plants,
wildlife and the watershed upstream of the dam; (b) ensure environmental
management of the Upper Arun Basin; and (c) control tourism and trekking in
the Arun Valley.    During  negotiations,  the  terms  of reference for the
proposed environmental and tourism management studies were discussed and
were found satisfactory to IDA (Annex 6).
3.30     Environmental and Resettlement Issues.    Much  of the land needed
for the access road to the hydropower electric scheme belongs to the
Government. However, ir. the vicinity of villages, private ownership is
involved and acquiring the land and resettling the affected families will
be necessary. A three-step process to respond to these issues has been
agreed as follows:
(a)  Land  Acquisition  Guidelines.       The  HMG  approved  Acquisition
Guidelines (Annex 7), acceptable to IDA, on January 5, 1989 which
provide the legislative basis for implementing the resettlement
plan discussed below. It is a condition of effectiveness that a
legal opinion be provided to IDA by the Secretary of Law and
Justice confirming that provisions contained in the Guidelines are
enforceable in accordance with the laws of Nepal. Acquisition
notices for the land needed for the first year's construction
works were posted in February 1989.
(b)  Land Acquisition, Compensation and  Rehabilitation Plan (ACRP). To
minimize the adverse effects of displac ent, HMG has avoided
taking agricultural land and heavily settled areas wherever
possible. Nevertheless, there are a number of families whose
land, buildings and means of livelihood would be affected by the
road construction.   To  ensure  that  the  people affected by the
property and land acquisition would be at least as well off in



-21-
terms of assets and livelihood after the project as they were
before, HMG prepared an ACRP for the first year of construction
which was reviewed and found acceptable by IDA during negotiations
(Annex 8). An implementation review report for IDA comment and
concurrence would be prepared by HMG by October 1, 1989 based on
experience during the fitst year's ACRP, and by March 1, 1990
after the second  year's  ACRP.    Any  modifications to the ACRPs
deemed necessary will be incorporated into the second and third
years' ACRP.    During  the  first  year  of  construction,  it is
estimated that about 1,372 families will be affected, of whom 35
may be seriously affected.   The  number  of families likely to be
affected later will be determined during the preparation of the
ACRP for the second and third years. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the second year's ACRP will be submitted to IDA on or
about November 1, 1989, and the third year's ACRP on or about
April 1, 1990 (para. 5.01).
(c)  Acquisition and Rehabilitation  Committees  (ARCs).   To implement
the ACRP discussed above, it was agreed during negotiations that
HMG would establish and maintain  an  ARC in the Sankhuwasabha and
Terhathum Districts in the project  area.   Each Committee will be
chaired by the respective Chief District Officer and would include
the following members from the respective Districts: the Land
Revenue Officer and representatives of the District Panchayats.
The  Project  Manager  would   be  the  member-secretary  of  such
committees.   Each  ARC  would  be  provided  with  the functions,
responsibilities, funds, staffing and other resources necessary to
carry out the activities entrusted to it under the Guidelines.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that each ARC would be
empowered to: (a) negotiate for and acquire land (for the road and
for resettlement purposes); (b) approve rehabilitation packages
for the project affected families in accordance with the agreed
ACRP; and (c) disburse compensation funds and transfer titles to
resettled families (para. 5.01).
K. Project Reporting
3.31     DOR would be responsible for submitting quarterly progress reports
on the project in accordance with an agreed format. The reports, to be
submitted not later than two months after the end of each fiscal quarter,
would indicate progress made and problems encountered during the quarter
under review and steps taken or proposed to remedy problems.
3.32     DOR has agreed to present a  project completion report to IDA, six
months after completion of the project, which, among other things, would
include its key monitoring data such as cost, general characteristics of
its execution, socio-economic impact and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the project.    During  negotiations,  it  was  confirmed that HMG would
follow the agreed format, content, and the timing of project reporting,
including the preparation of the project completion report.
L. Accounts and Audits
3.33     The Auditor  General  is  responsible  for  auditing all accounts.
However, the performance of HMG in fulfilling IDA accounting and audit
requirements has been weak, and in most projects, audits of accounts have



-22-
been late. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed
projects are audited as part of the overall financial records of the
implementing department, and the Auditor General does not release the full
audit report until it has been cleared by all concerned officials. IDA has
suggested a format and content for auditors' reports to be prepared by an
independent auditor and submitted to IDA, without waiting for the Auditor
General's  full  report.    Similar  procedures  are  being  instituted for
specific audit certification of all withdrawal applications based on
statements of expenditure.   During  negotiaLions,  it  was agreed that HMG
would cause DOR to:   (a)  maintain  separate  records and accounts for all
project expenditures, by individual project component, in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles; (b) furnish to IDA the report on the
Special Account, audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in
accordance with sound auditing principles; (c) forward to IDA such
accounts, together with the auditor's reports, within 12 months after the
end of each fiscal year; (d) include in the annual audit reports a separate
opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements made Gn the basis
of statements of expenditure were for works and services completed and
incurred for the purposes of the project; and (e) furnish to IDA such other
information concerning audits and accounts as IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request, including submission within six months after the end of
each fiscal year, of unaudited project accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA (para. 501).
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS
A. Background
4.01     The Arun III  Access  Road  Project  is  a  part  of  the Arun III
hydroelectric scheme which in turn  forms  an  integral part of NEA's least
cost  expansion   plan   in   electricity   generation,   transmission  and
distribution. It was thus appropriate to carry out the economic evaluation
on the entire  NEA  investment  program.    The  investment program for the
period FY89-FY2001 was analyzed for two different power export scenarios:
(a) a base case scenario assuming power exports of 1.5 MW capacity until
the 1995 commissioning of the first phase Arun III hydroelectric scheme
when they increased to 25 MW (both at a load factor of 0.50); and (b) a
bulk export scenario, which differs from the base case in that power
exports were assumed to increase to 125 MW from 1997 onwards. For both
scenarios, NEA's sales projections for Nepal's interconnected system were
used.
B. Future Electricity Demand
4.02     Total electricity sales  increased  at  an  average annual rate of
12.5% over the period FY76-FY87 (Annex 9). The fastest growing categories
were sales to industrial consumers (14.9Z p.a.), commercial (12.1Z) and
residential consumers (9.3%).    The  share  of  total  sales to industrial
consumers increased from 30% to 37Z while the share to residential
consumers fell from 54% to  42%.    The  increasing share of the industrial
consumption improved the interconnected system's load factor from 45% to
50Z. Although, the numbers of industrial and commercial consumers grew



-23-
more rapidly than residential consumers, the latter still account for 97%
of NEA's customers   Over the  whole  period, the total number of consumers
rose from 79,000 to 208,000, representing an average of about 11,700 new
connections  a  year  (9%  p.a.).    This  relatively  rapid  rate  of  new
connections was the driving force behind the increase in electricity
consumption in Nepal's power system.
4.03     The methodology developed for the load forecast was a mixture of a
disaggregated approach combined with econometric mode].s, trend analysis and
linkage with industrial output (Annex 9, Attachment 2). It was developed
based on a review of the effectiveness of different methodologies, such as
extrapolation of previous experience, econometric models, energy input-
output models and a disaggregated approach in the Nepalese environment and
consideration of their  data  requirements.    The  load forecast developed
shows Nepal's total sales increasing at 8.2Z a year during FY87-FY2006.
Sales to industrial consumers are projected to exceed those to residential
consumers by 1996. The projected decrease in the sales growth rate t3 8.22
compared with the historic level of 12.5% reflects the projected major
extension of service to new consumers, principally residential, with a low
initial demand for electricity.
4.04     The load forecast also assumed  that  gross system losses would be
reduced progressively from 282 in FY88 to 20Z in FY96 and subsequently
remain at that level. Bulk sales would consist of the export to India of
6.57 GWh up to the commissioning of the first-phase Arun III hydroelectric
scheme and  109.5  GWh,  thereafter.    Units  generated  are  projected to
increase at an average annual rate of 7.82 through FY2006. The overall
load factor is expected to remain  at  about  50%.   This is because of the
counteracting effects of  projected  increases  in  industrial sales (which
improve the load factor)  and  rural  residential connections (which worsen
the load factor because they have a load factor of about 252).  Peak demand
is projected to increase from 141 MW  in  FY88 to 501 MW in FY2006.  Annual
per capita electricity consumption is forecast  to increase to about 77 kWh
in FY2006.
C. Base Case Scenario
Capital Costs
4.05     Anticipated investments in the  Arun  III  Access Road Project, in
generation projects identified by the LCGEP, and in the transmission and
distribution projects, expressed in financial prices, were converted into
economic prices by: (a) expressing the import content at c.i.f. prices; and
(b) applyirng an estimated standard conversion factor of 0.89 to local
costs.
Recurrent Casts
4.06     Annual  operation  and  maintenance  costs  for  the  power system
components  were  estimated  as   the   following  percentages  of  capital
investment: generation, 12; high voltage network, 2%; medium voltage
network, 32; and low voltage  network,  62.    For the Arun III Access Road
Project, annual maintenance costs are estimated at US$120,000 for the
period  1993-2003  and  US$84,000,  thereafter.    To  value  operation and
maintenance financial costs in economic terms, the distribution of costs
was assumed to be 902 foreign and 10% local.



-24-
Benefits
4.07     Benefits were based entirely  on  a  the power benefits associated
with a "time-slice" of NEA's investment program for FY90-FY2001. Transport
benefits were  not  quantified.    The  base  case  scenario  benefits were
estimated first in terms of total revenue using the average revenue per kWh
in mid-1988. The projected average revenue of NRs 1.39/kWh in FY89 was
taken to represent the weighted average tariff rate defined over existing
domestic tariffs; the export tariff was NRs 1.0/kWh. Using costs measured
in economic terms, the internal rate of return (IRR) was estimated to be
about 5.6Z. This is less than the estimated opportunity cost of capital of
10% and indicates that tariffs are currently less than long run marginal
costs (para. 2.08). The cost and benefit base case scenario streams (using
average revenue as the sole measure of benefits) are shown in Annex 9,
Attachment 3.
4.08     The foregoing revenue-based measure of  rate  of return is, by its
nature, more a measure of the adequacy of tariffs than of the true economic
worth of the investment program which includes the Arun III access road and
the hydroelectric scheme.   The  hydroelectric scheme would confer benefits
in excess of those measured by incremental power revenue, and thus 5.6% is
a minimum measure of the benefits of the hydroelectric scheme.
4.09     A better  measure  of  the  rate  of  return  can  be  obtained by
estimating consumers' willingness to pay for the incremental electricity
sales within Nepal. A conservative estimate of willingness to pay was made
as follows:    for  most  low  voltage  consumers,  willingness  to pay was
estimated  using  the  average  existing   tariff  rates  for  supplies  to
residential and commercial consumers from private sector schemes (NRs
6.00/kWh).    For  other  low  voltage,  medium  voltage  and  high voltage
consumers, willingness to pay was measured in terms of the incremental
operating costs (NRs 2.63/kWh)  for  meeting  their demands for electricity
using captive  generating  plant  (in  1987  these  consumers  had  a total
installed capacity of about 17 MW).  On this basis, the calculated weighted
average willingness to pay for all  consumer groups is NRs 3.94/kWh.  Using
this value and valuing export sales at NRs 1.0/kWh, the IRR is about 13.9%.
This measure is still a  lower  bound  measure  of  the IRR, since it:  (a)
assumes that consumers' willingness to pay for the improved reliability and
quality of electricity supply is zero; and (b) excludes quantifiable
benefits resulting from the utilization of the access road by non-power
related traffic.
4.10     The primary benefits of the  road project would be the development
of least-cost electricity generation to be made available to domestic
consumers as well as for export markets in India. However, it would also
stimulate commerce between the Hills and the Terai by reducing transport
costs of agricultural products, milk and the brass work produced in
Chainpur. Exports of Chainpur brass products have been declining in recent
years in the face of rising porterage costs. The completion of the project
road is expected to reverse this trend. Additionally, the introduction of
bus services would increase mobility in the area and make the health care
services in Dharan or travelling doctors available to the Hill population.



-25-
4.11     The studies conducted  by  the  Koshi  Hill Agricultural and Rural
Development Program to assess agricultural production potential in the
Koshi Hills estimated that the use of chemical fertilizers could increase
productivity in this area by  5%  p.a.        However, the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation estimated that about 700-1000 tons p.a. of the demand for
fertilizers in the Koshi Hills is being unfilled due to inadequate
transport. The proposed project would, therefore, offer tbe opportunity to
realize this production potential.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
4.12     Sensitivity analysis was carried  out  for  the willingness to pay
based measure of IRR (Annex 9) to ascertain the likely risk that the Arun
III hydroelectric scheme, including the access road, would be uneconomic.
The analysis is presented in terms of the percentage change in a particular
item required to yield a specified IRR value. For example, either a 26.9Z
increase in capital costs or a 19.9% decrease in domestic sales would
reduce the IRR from 13.9% to 12Z. The sensitivity analysis indicates that
the base case IRR estimates are robust.
4.13     The base case analysis assumes  continuation of the 25 MW capacity
export agreement  with  India.    However,  agreement  has  been reached in
principle by the Governments of Nepal and India to increase exports to 125
MW. In that case, the IRR would be a minimum of 16.0%. Further increases
in the level of exports are under discussion. Exports of 200 MW capacity
would increase the IRR to about 17.0Z.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.01     The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) a Project Monitoring Committee will be maintained under the
Chairmanship of the Minister of Water Resources (para. 3.23);
(b) a Project Implementation Unit maintained with DOR, and managed by
an officer with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA,
will be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the
Project, and assisted by supervising consultants (para. 3.24);
(c) the MFSC would implement the Forestry Action Plan in the project
area (para. 3.27);
(d)  an Environmental Management  Unit  will  be maintained within DOR,
headed by an officer with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA to implement the agreed staffing and work program (para.
3.28);
(e) HMG would prepare the second year ACRP, to be furnished to IDA by
November 1, 1989, and the final third year ACRP to be furnished to
IDA by about April 1, 1990 following implementation reviews
(para. 3.30);



-26-
(f) ARCs in the Sankhuwasabha and Terhathum Districts in the project
areas will be maintained (para. 3.30); and
(g) HMG would cause the DOR to keep separate accounts for project
components and the Special Account, which would be subject to
audit (para. 3.33).
Condition of Credit Effectiveness
5.02     It is a condition of effectiveness that the provisions contained in
the Land Acquisition Guidelines approved by HMG on January 5, 1989 have been
issued and are enforceable in accordance with the laws of Nepal (para.
3.30).
Recommendation
5.03     Based on the above  agreements  and condition of effectiveness, the
proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 24.4 million
(equivalent to US$32.8 million) to the Kingdom of Nepal on standard terms
with 40 years maturity.



-27-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS
General
To enable work on the Arun III Hydropower Project to commence, an
access road is required to the intake, adit and power house sites from the
nearest Bansantapur-Hile road. Initially, however, a compacted gravel road
with modular steel bridges and sidedrains will be provided after two and a
half years of construction. It will require two additional years to
construct a permanent road. The estimated construction expenditures are as
follows:
Percentage of Total
Construction Cost of
US$50 M
First Year   (1989)                        15) First stage of
Second Year  (1990)                        25) construction being
Third Year   (1991)                        20) carried out under
this project
Fourth Year  (1992)                        19) Second stage of
Fifth Year   (1993)                        21) construction to be
carried out under
Hydropower Project
Design Standards
The final design standards adopted based on detailed engineering
are as follows:
Formation:  (a)  In general, 6.5 m wide, comprising a 4.5 m carriageway,
0.5 m shoulders and 1.0 m allowance for a sidedrain (see
below under sidedrain).
(b) In village areas and at bends the formation width is
increased to 7.5 m minimum, with a corresponding increase
in carriageway width, or combined carriageway and
shoulders.
Carriageway:      Generally 4.5 m wide, consisting of an average 25 cm thick
gravel surface (15 and 10 cm compacted thicknesses of
crushed stone sub-base and base material respectively).
Crossfalls on the carriageway will be a minimum 5 percent
towards a continuous longitudinal sidedrain at the inner
(hill) side of the road, with increased crossfalls where
the longitudinal gradients are greater.



Annex 1
-28-                               Page 2 of 3
Where the road is on embankment, or where the road has
longitudinal drains along both sides, as for instance may
occur in box cut or where the terrain is flat, minimum 5
percent cambers will be given.
After the first stage of construction, surface dressing
will be applied at sharp bends, on steep gradients and at
other critical points to reduce damage to the pavement by
trucks.
Sidedrains:       Generally, sidedrains will be masonry-lined and continuous
along the inner (hill) side for the road throughout its
length, except for sections on raised embankment. If the
subgrade material and road gradient permit, the sidedrain
lining will be laid dry. Otherwise, it will be in cement
mortar. However, in some circumstances, e.g. in rocky
formations, the sidedrain lining may be entirely omitted.
Where the road gradient is high, masonry check dams may be
provided to reduce erosion.
The size and shape of sidedrains wil!. vary depending on.
the situation. In. some circumstances, subsurface drains
will be used. Area, or cut-off, drains may be provided at
some locations above the road cut to reduce erosion from
run-off water on cut faces and to reduce infiltration of
water behind cut faces. However, unless properly
designed, installed and maintained, area drains can
trigger rather than prevent side slope instability. They
therefore will only be provided after thorough examination
of the circumstances.
Gradients:        Average 7 percent over any one kilometre, with a maximum
of 10 percent over not more than 300 m length at a time.
Radius at         Generally, not less than 25 m radius (at centre line of
Curves:           the road), though radii of 15 m may be unavoidable in some
exceptional cases. In all cases, the formation and
carriageway width will be increased at bends. Also,
gradients will be reduced at bends and at their
approaches.
Shoulders:        Generally, capped with 15 cm compacted subbase material
except where the formation is strong enough to withstand
wheel loads. In village areas, the shoulders will have 10
cm compacted base material as for the carriageway.
Retaining         Will generally be of gabion, cement mortar fully bound or
Walls:            composite construction stone masonry, depending on
circumstances. Footings will be mass concrete.
Breast Walls:    As with retaining walls, gabion and cement mortar fully-
bound or composite construction will be used for t.ae
majority of walls, though some smaller walls may be dry
stonework with mass concrete footings and cement mortar
bound capping.



Annex 1
-29-                             Page 3 of 3
Cross             Genecally, concrete or steel pipe or reinforced concrete
Drainage:         box culverts of adequate size have been allowed for  11
streams and gulleys which cross the alignment. Even
though these are dry for much of the year, they can carry
large volumes of water in the wet season. Where
circumstances dictate their necessity, appropriately
designed causeways (drifts) will be provided. Drifts are
unsuitable, however, on steep gradients, or for deep
gulley crossings, even when the water flow is small.
Bridges:          Very short bridges over seasonal streams will be of
reinforced concrete construction, whereas the minor and
major bridges spanning the main rivers will be of
prefabricated modular steel design for speed of
construction, with reinforced concrete decks. Loading of
bridges will be to AASHTOSH 20-44.
Bridge substructures (abutments and piers) are assumed to
be of reinforced concrete (especially with a view to
increasing the capacity of bridge to absorb seismic
loading).
Foundations are assumed to be taken to rock, as verified
during detailed design, River training works and scour
protection will be by means of gabion matresses, rip rap
or masonry structures.



-30-
Annex g
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year               Quarterly Disb.    Estimated Cumulative
and Quarter      Quarters     USS Million            Disbursement
US$ Million    Percent
1990
10/01/89 - 12/31/89       1         6.2 1/            6.2          19
01/01/90 - 03/31/90       2         2.8               9.0          27
04/01/90 - 06/30/90       3         3.2              12.2          37
1991
07/01/90 - 09/30/90       4         1.1              13.3          41
10/01/90 - 12/31/90       5         1.9              15.2          46
01/01/91 - 03/31/91       6         3.1              18.3          56
04/01/91 - 06/30/91       7         2.9              21.2          65
1992
07/01/91 - 09/30/91       8         1.1              22.3          68
10/01/91 - 12/31/91       9         1.8              24.1          73
01/01/92 - 03/31/92      10         2.1              26.2          80
04/01/92 - 06/30/92      11         1.5              27.7          84
1993
07/01/92 - 09/30/92      12         0.5              28.2          86
10/01/92 - 12/31/92      13         1.1              29.3          89
01/01/93 - 03/31/93      14         1.5              30.8          94
04/01/93 - 06/30/93      15         0.4              31.2          95
1994
07/01/93 - 09/30/93      16         0.1              31.3          95
10/01/93 - 12/31/93      17         0.1              31.4          96
01/01/94 - 03/31/94      18         1.4              32.8         100
1/ Includes retroactive financing of US$3.3 million for expenditures
made after January 1, 1989.



-31-
Annex 3
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
Arun III Project Monitoring Committee
As per the decision of the Ministry of Water Resources dated 21
April 1987, the Arun III Project Monitoring Committee was formed under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Water Resources. The members of.the
committee are as follows:
Ministry of Finance
- Minister *
-  Secreta y *
Ministry of Water Resources:
- Minister (Chairman)
- Secretary
- Superintending Engineer (Member Cum Secretary)*
Ministry of Works and Transport
- Minister
- Secretary
NEA
- Executive Director
DOR
- Chief Engineer
The committee is to meet monthly unless a special meeting is
called to consider urgent issues.
Note: Members marked * added to committee by decision of HMG/N on Julv 21.
1988.



-32-                     Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD
SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION
Terms of Reference
1.       OBJECTIVES
1.1      The Arun III Access Road will be about 192 km long and will
provide access for construction traffic serving the proposed Arun III
hydroelectric scheme as well as for inhabitants of the Arun Valley. The
gravel-surfaced road will be 'b.5 m wide on a 6.5 m formation. The terrain
dictates the extensive use of retaining structures and the construction of
a large number of culverts. There will be five bridges varying in length
from 129 m to 59.5 m. In order to fulfill the projected power demand in
Nepal in a timely manner, the construction period for the access road is
constrained to 30 months which will require a contractor to work on three
or four fronts simultaneously. It is intended that the northern section of
the road from Tumlingtar to the hydroelectric construction site be open to
traffic 24 months after the start of the contract period.
2.       FINANCING
2.1      The Kingdom of Nepal has applied for a credit from the
International Development Association (IDA) to finance eligible
expenditures under the project, including the cost of construction
s zpervision.
3.       SCOPE OF WORK
3.1      The scope of work will be:
(a) supervision of the construction contract. including technical
and financial control; and
(b) preparation of the project completion report;
3.2      Locally Emvloyed Staff
The Government desires to maximize the use of and to develop
domestic skills and to reduce foreign exchange requirements to the extent
practicable. Consequently, the Consultants are required to provide only
key personnel for performance of the work. DOR will propose, and
consultants will select, suitably qualified supporting staff such as
engineers and technicians who could be seconded to the Consultants by the
Government on a full time basis to the extent that they are available from
either within the DOR or local consultancy firms. Salaries and allowances
for assigned staff will be paid by the Consultants at rates which they
consider appropriate and the costs will be included in their financial



Annex 4
-33-                       Page 2 of 5
proposals. Assigned staff will work under the direction and control of the
ConsultantS and will be directly responsible to them, for the duration of
their assignment. Additional staff required by the Consultants and which
are not available from the Government shall be hired by the Consultants.
To the extent that such staff are not available within Nepal, they may be
hired from any of the eligible source countries, subject to prior approval
by the Government. Detailed arrangements for supply and hiring of staff
will be discussed between the Consultants and the Government on
appointment.
4.       EXECUTION OF THE CONSULTING SERVICES
4.1      Supervision of Construction
4.1.1    The Engineer
The Consultants shall function on behalf of the Government and the
DOR in all respects as the Engineer for the project.
4.1.2    Administration of Contracts
From the commencement of the construction of the Works, the
Consultants shall provide such supervisory services as are reasonably
necessary to enable the Contractor to proceed with the construction of the
Works in accordance with the planned programme, or otherwise in accordance
with the Engineer's instructions and to ensure that the Works are
constructed and maintained in accordance with the contract and otherwise in
accordance with good engineering practice. These services include all or
any of the following as may be necessary:
(a) Appointing of resident site staff.
(b) Giving all necessary instructions to the Contractor including
variation orders, provided that the Consultants shall not,
without the prior approval of the Government, give any
instructions which are in their opinion likely substantially to
increase the cost of Works unless it is not in the
circumstances practicable for the Consultants to obtain such
prior approval.
(c) Measuring and calculating quantities of approved and accepted
work and materials.
(d) Checking, procuring and issuing certificates for payment to the
Contractor.
(e) Reviewing and approving Contractor's working drawings and work
schedules.
(f) Checking of setting out and staking of horizontal controls for
the road alignment, vertical control benchmarks and initial and
final survey measurements to determine quantities.



Annex 4
-34-                      Page 3 of 5
(g) Examining and reviewing the Contractor's proposals for carrying
out the Works in relation to the proposals submitted with the
tender and the actual progress achieved.
(h)  Notifying the Government of any possible over-expenditure or
causes of delay in completion and recommending solutions to the
problems created thereby.
(i) Inspecting all materials and workmanship, including testing of
materials where necessary, to ensure compliance with the
contract drawings and specifications and, where necessary,
giving immediate notice in writing to the Contractor and
informing the Government of any defects, deficiencies or non-
compliance.
(j) Preparing any further designs which may be necessary for
completion of the Works.
(Ik) Advising the Government on the need to carry out any
geotechnical investigations which may be necessary to
supplement the geotechnical information already available to
the Consultants.
(i) Deciding on the need for special inspection or testing and
ordering execution of the same, subject always to the approval
of the Government to costs which may be incurred.
(m)  Applying the environmental control measures contained in the
contract documents in relation to, inter alia, temporary access
roads, removal of trees (in cooperation with Department of
Forests), spoil and borrow areas and the use by the Contractor
of fuel other than wood for domestic and constructional
purposes.
(n) Maintaining liaison with the Land Acquisition and
Rehabilitation Committee and the progress of the Land
Acquisition and Rehabilitatiov Plan to ensure land is available
for the road right of way.
(o)  Evaluating Contractor's claims and advising the Government
accordingly.
(p) Negotiating rates for unscheduled items in the bills of
quantities.
tq) Deciding any dispute or difference arising between the
Government and the Contractor and submitted to the Consultants
for their decision and, in the event of arbitration, making the
services of necessary staff available to the Government on
terms and conditions similar to those agreed for supervision.
(r) Supervising the Works, preparing and submitting monthly
progress reports in a format to be approved by the Government
and IDA.



Annex 4
-35-                      Page 4 of 5
(s)  Preparing documents for acceptance of work executed by the
Contractor, inspecting the completed work and certifying the
date or dates on which work should be accepted by the
Government.
(t)  Delivering to the Government on the completion of the Works as
built drawin6s and such records as are necessary to enable the
Government to operate and maintain the Works.
4.1.3    Supervision on Site
The Consultants shall be responsible for the supervision of all
site works. The Chief Resident Engineer will be given full powers by the
Engineer to deal with ail natters arising on site whether of a technical or
administrative nature and including the issuing of certificates of payment
to the Contractor. The Consultants shall provide such suppoet as the Chief
Resident Engineer may need for the satisfactory completion of the Works.
The Consultant shall appoint such suitably qualified technical site staff
as they shall consider necessary to enable proper supervision to be carried
out. The names and qualifications of such staff shall be submitted to the
Government for approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The Government shall ensure that the contracts of employment of all
seconded site staff employed by the Government shall stipulate that the
person employed will, in the execution of his supervisory duties, in no
circumstances take or act upon instructions other than those of the
Consultants.
The Government may, at any time, require the Consultants to remove from the
Works any person employed by the Consultants who, in the opinion of the
Government, misconducts himself or is incompetent or negligent in the
performance oi his duties or whose continued presence at the Works is
considered undesirable in the interests of the Government.
6.       FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT
6.1      In connection with any work by the Consultants that requires the
cooperation of other Government agencies, the Government will provide
liaison and will ensure that the Consultants have access to all information
required for the completion of the services.
6.2      The Government will appoint a Project Manager and operate a
Project Implementation Unit to assist the Consultants in performing the
services and to provide liaison with Government departments.
7.       REPORTS
7.1      The Consultant shall submit the following reports, documents and
drawings to the Government during the execution of the project.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
-36-
7.2      Supervision
(i) Monthly Progress Reports covering all construction and supervision
activities on the contract works, and including descriptions of
work accomplished, problems encountered during the report period.
changes in the work. payments authorized, construction progress in
relation to approved time schedules and estimated final
construction costs (20 copies).
(ii) As built drawings within two months of completion of the works (1
set of transparencies and 10 sets of prints).
7.3      Project Completion Report
(i) On completion of the works, the Consultants will provide a
completion report summarizing the events of the contract period
(20 copies).
(ii)  On receipt by the Government of the draft Project Completion
Report from IDA, the Consultants are to assist the Government in
the preparation of Part II of the report.
The format and content of the progress reports shall be agreed with the
Government and IDA.
8.       TIME SCHEDULE
8.1      The Consultants shall commence work in Nepal within thirty days of
the effective date of the Contract for Services.  The programme for the
services will depend on the timing of the bidding and award of Contracts.
The assumed timings are shown in the timetable below:
Contract Award
Receipt of Letter of Acceptance and
Notice to Commence Work and
Contract Commencement Date                      July 9, 1989
Completion of Northern Section
Tumlingtar - Num                                January 9, 1992
Completion of Entire Works                      January 9, 1993
End of Maintenance Period                       January 31, 1994
Receipt by DOR of Draft Project
Completion Report from IDA                      August 3, 1994
Receipt by IDA of Completed
Part II of PCR from DOR                         October 5, 1994



Annex 5
-37-                           Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT UNIT STAFFING AND WORK PPOGRAM
1. ND
His Majesty's Government is concerned at the potential for
environmental damage resulting from various developmental activities
including road construction. The construction of roads in Nepal will lead
to population migration and ribbon development which in turn can lead to
deforestation, landslides, erosion and flood damage in the vicinity of the
road. In a wider context, there may be loss of agricultural land, change
resettlement. Given the requirement for development of the road network
and the consequent need to pay specific attention to the environmental
aspects, the Department of Roads (DOR) has established an environmental
Management Unit (EMU) within the Department (attachment to this Annex
contains the Formation Order).
2.  OBJECTIYES
The main objectives of tHe EMU will be tot
(a) collect and review existing reports, data and ongoing studies
relating to the damaging physical aspects of road construction in
Nepal, and the consequential social changes;
(b)  carry out further field investigations to record the principal
sources of environmental damage on exi3ting roads and those under
construction;
(c) establish a basis for quantifying the costs and benefits of
environmental damage and protection in both financial and economic
terms for project evaluation;
(d) propose guidelines for predicting the environmental implications
of socio-economic changes resulting from improved road transport;
(e) develop plans for acquisition, compensation, rehabilitation and
resettlement of population affected by road projects;
(f)  set out the framework and procedures for Environmental Impact
Assessments for highway projects:
(g)  recommend design deta.ls, specifications and construction details
to minimize environmental danmage including erosion, gullying.
landslips, siltation and flooding;
(h) development guidelines for the use of vegetation to control
erosion and protect slopes;
(i) prepare design procedures and standard details for the safe
discharge of highway drainage, river training and flood
protection;



Annex 5
-38-                         Page 2 of 4
Cj) ensure that Contract DocumentS have adequate provision for the
limitation of environmental damage, such as deforestation and
reduction of agricultural production;
(k) monitor the design and constructlon of road projects to ensure
that environmental aims are achieved;
(1) recommend procedures and practices for the efficient and timely
execution of road maintenance to minimize the risks of
environmental damage;
(m)  establish pilot projects to enable elements of environmental
protection to be monitored and reappraised through practical
experience:
(ni suggest further areas for research and investigation into
environmental aspects;
(o) propose, if necessary, any changes in administration or
legielation to improve procedures for dealing with environmental
aspects of the road development programe.
3. OR"N!ZATION
D4U will be established as a key section of DOR, with the
following staffs
(a)  Highway Engineer                    1 No
(b)  Geotechnical Specialist             1 Ho
Cc)  BLo-engineer                        I No
Cd)  Office Assistant (non-gazetted)    1 No
*e)  Draughtsman (non-gazetted)          1 No
(f)  Tracer (non-gazetted)               1 No
Cg)  Typist                              1 No
(h)  Peon                                3 No
Ci)  Economist/Agronomist                Part Time
(j)  Hydrologist                         Part Time
In addltion to office accommodatior and vehicles, it is anticipated that
laboratory facilities will be required in the future.
4. BUDGE?
About 1.5 milllon NRs. will be needed for EU. The process of
creation of new posts of manpower will be carried out by the Personnel
Administration Section of DOR. Till the new posts are processed and agreed
upon, the existing manpower within the DOR will start functioning effective
from the start of the new month. i.e., 1st of Marg 2045 (16th Nov. 1988).
S. DWLUUUTATION
After the establishment of EMU as suggested and budgetary release
of the amount proposed in the next fiscal year starting from the 3rd week
of July 1989 the following stages of implementation are anticipatedt



Annex 5
-39-                        Page 3 of 4
(a) Stage 1 (3 months) - carry out the reviews and investigations
under 2 (a) and (b) and prepare an InceptiOn Report summarizing
the findings and setting out the scope and timing for Stage 2.
(b) Stage 2 (about 6 months) - establish standards and procedures for
objective 2 (c) to 2 (1) inclusive, and prepare Draft
Environmental Guidelines for Road Design and construction for
discussion and approval.
(c) Stage 3 (about 1 month) - prepare procedures for monitoring
projects and recommendations for maintenance (items 2 (j) and (k)]
as Annexes to the Guidelines.
(d) Stage 4 (about 2 months) - finalize Environmental Guidelines.
Make recommendations for objectives 2 (1) to (m) inclusive.
(e) Stage 5 (2nd year onwards) - carry out ongoing monitoring,
checking, research, etc., and maintain Guidelines incorporating
experience gained.
In order to carry out these tasks EMU will need access to previous and
ongoing work, and the cooperation of the local project, zonal and district
offices of DOR.
N. D. Sharma
Chief Engineer, Department of Roads



Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
(Translation)
His Majesty's Government
Department of Roads
Babar Mahal
Ref. No. 830                                        Dated 2045-7-29
Mr. Suresh Kumar Reqmi
Senior Divisional Engineer
Illam Phidim Roads Project
Mochi Rajmarg. Illam
As per the decision of His Majesty's Government dated 2045-7-16, you have been
transferred in this department and have been placed as the Head of the
Environmental Unit of the Department of Roads from your present position. You
are informed to assume duties and responsibilities in the transferred unit.
Signatured/
Senior Administrative Officer
cc: 1. DOR E.R. Off.
2. Civil Servant's Record Office
3. Provident fund
4. Illam-Phidim Road Project
5. Arun III Access Road Project
6.  Environmental Unit Babar Mahal
7. Finance Administrative Division Babar Mahal
8. Office Syst. Branch Babar Mahal



Annex 6
-41-                           Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
MANAGEMENT OF' ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
i. introduction
The introduction of the Arun III hydroelectric dam and the associated
access road of some 192 kilometers into the isolated Arum Valley will have
a significant and perhaps profound effect on tho use and managoemet of land
and resources in the valley. and on the econoaLc and social circumstances
of the population. The road in particular is likely to generate changed
demands on the use of both developed and currontly undeveloped land and
resources. In this remots valley, the use of land and resources has
evolved ovor long periods. The suddec availability of vehicle access and
the associated opportunities. vhilo potentially of great econocic benefit.
are likely to genersteo considerable change and disruption to the physical,
social and econmic environment.
The presence of the road will cause changes in conomic activity and
employment pattern, and the road is likely to attract new types of
activity along the road corridor.
The upper Arun catchment above the dam sLto has particular environmeltal
considerations that need to bo taken into account. Part of the catchment
has been identifLed for addition to Sagarmatha National Park, and thLs
reflects its very high scaiic and ecological valuec. in the upper
catchment generally, thore is a need to work closely with the residents of
the area to integrate their needs with that of the, national park proposal
and with catchment management requirements.
The resources of the Arun Valley &ro also under pressure because of other
factors, in particulat the incteasing population, and a croful and
coordinated planning approach is timely, regardless of th6 ieodiate neod
created by the road and dam proposal.
There are various actions under way to deal with the direct impacts of the
road and dam projects. these lnclude measures for road access controls,
forestry protectLon, labour force management, assessment of the impact of
the dan on aGLiatlc life, road desig  to  Liaimsie environntal degrtadation,
establishment of an environmental unit vithLi W01, and preparatlon of an
action plan for litensified supervision of the road influence areas during
construction to minize tree cutting.
To address concerns about the impact of the road on the existing unroaded
towns, an urban planner has been added to the ACIP team.
The teorms of reference for the detailed engineering for the dam project
provide for physical aspects of dar catchment management.
What still needs to be provided for is broader management studles to deal
with catchment management, conservation and tourism, vith consideration of
the implications of the road and dam for these aspects.



-42-                        Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
2. conservation and Tourism
These is a need to undertake a careful and planned approach to the
conservation of natural and cultural resources in the valley, ranging from
the pristine vildernes of the Barun Valley to the unique architectural and
cultural character of the unroaded towns which are nov to receive road
access. The inevitable increase in tourism which will occur vith road
access is intimately linked vith the conservation issue, both because the
unique resources of the valley provide the basis for tourism development,
and because of the potential impact of tourism on these resources.
This is the primary area where specific nev actions are required and, after
careful consideration of the issues involved, tho following approaches are
proposed.
(a) Upper ArunlCatchment Management Plan
The area which will comprise the catchment of the Arun III dam within Nepal
will remain as a remote, unroaded area. Both because of its natural values
and because of its function as the dam catchment area, it must be maneed
primarily for conservation purposes, and it can logically be treated
somevhat separately from the remainder of the valley.
It is proposed to provide financial/technical support to enable the
extensiou of the study of the Makela-Barun area currently being undertaken
by agroement betvwen the Department of National Parks and WlIdlife
Conservation an the Woodlands Mountain Institute. The study would be
eztended both in geographical extent and scope so that it fulfills the
objectives both of the Makalu-Barun Study and of catchment managemnt.
Because of the primary function of tho area for conservation management.
the need for an integrated approach to catchment management, and the
difficulty of distinguishing an effectLve boundary betvwen the national
park extension study area and the remainder of the catchment, lt is
proposed that the Department of Natlonal Parks and Wildlife Conservation
should assume responsibility for directLng the study on behalf of hLs
Majoesty's Government. It is expected that implementation of the findings
of the study vill Lnvolve not just the DNPWC. and there will of course be a
need to consult closely with other agencies during the course of the study.
Terms of reference are available in the project file.
,b) Lower Arun Conservation/Tourist Plan
The area of the valley below the dam vill come under pressure for tourism
development.  Ccnservation of the valloy's natural and cultural cesources
and the development of a sustainable tourist industry are closely linked
and interdependent'. and it is appropriate to undertake a coordinated study
covering both aspects.
Because this study needs to have strong elements of conservation promotion.
conservation education, community participation and development, and the
development of a range of conservation mechanisms, it is seen as a logical
function for the King Mahendra Trust for Nature Conservation.
Terms of reference are available in the project file.



-43-                        Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD
Land Acquisition Guidelines 2045
Published: January 5, 1989
In exercise of the power conferre' by Sections 16 and 27 of the
Land Acquisition Act 2034, His Majesty's Government, tLrough the authority
vested in the Ministry of Transport, has issued the followinr. "Guidelines"
with immediate effect.
1. SHORT TITLE, EXTENT AND COMMENCEMENT:
(a) These "Guidelines" may be called "Land Acquisition Guidelines
2045".
(b) These 'Guidelines" shall be applicable to Arun III Access Road
Project activities only.
(c) These 'Guideliies" shall come into force with immediate effect.
2. DEFINITION:
In these "Guidelines" unless the extent of the subject otherwise
requires:
(a) "Act" means the Land Acquisition Act 2034.
(b) "Project" means the Arun III Access Road Project.
(c) "Project Manager" means the Project Manager of the Arun III Access
Road Project representing DOR.
(d) "ACRP" means the Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation
Plan.
(e) "ARC" means the Acquisition and Rehabilitation Committees
constituted as per Section 5(a) of these Guidelines.
(f)  "Project Team" means the team entrusted by HMGIN to assist DOR in
carrying out the activities set forth in Section 3(a) of these
Guidelines.
(g) "DOR" means the Department of Roads.
(h) "Project Affected Family" and the acronym "PAF" means a family who
is adversely affected by the Project, including those whose assets



-44-                         Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
although not compulsorily acquired for the Project, are
nevertheless damaged by the construction activities thereunder.
(i) 'Seriously Project Affected Family" and the acronym nSPAF" mean a
project affected family, as defined: (i) whose main source of
income is derived from or dependent upon a land holding (whether
agricultural land or houseplot or business) which is under their
direct cultivation or management--either as owner, tenant or
physical possession; or (ii) whose main residence, place of
business or main source of income earning activity is a
house/houseplot--either as owner, tenant or physical possessor,
and who as a consequence of the acquisition for, or damage by, the
Project of such land holding, house or houseplot is either:
(a) left with no such holding; or (b) left with holdings of such
land, houseplot or house which are are not adequate to ensure them
that after a reasonable transition period they will at least
regain the standard of living enjoyed prior to the implementation
of the Project.
,j) 'Main Source of Income' means the source or sources of income that
provides for at least half of the gross income of a Project
Affected Family.
(k) 'Family" means the social unit composed of adult male and female
and their minor offspring and other direct related dependents
living in the same household as of the cime of the compulsory
acquisition.
3. GENERAL GlT'DELINES TO BE FOLLOWED BY ARC:
While acquiring land and other properties for the project and
providing compensation and other rehabilitation measures to PAFs and SPAFs,
the ARC shall observe the following principles as basic guidelines in
additioni to those as prescribed under Section 16 of the Act.
(a) The DOR/Project Manger shall, with the assistance of the Project
Team, be entrusted to: (i) carry out the cadastral of land and
other assets to be acquired or damaged due to the Project;
(ii) survey the population to be affected; (iii) assess the
standard of living and sources of income of the population to be
affected; and (iv) value the land and other aesets to be acquired
due to the Project. The survey shall identify the population by
their main and secondary activity, i.e., agriculture land owners,
agriculture labourers, tenants and house owners, merchants,
shoppers, merchant labourers and combinations thereof. The
DOR/Project Manager, with the assistance of the Project Team,
shall prepare a Compensation Statement for each PAF and SPAF, such
Compensation Statement to include all the components of
compensation and rehabilitation measures to be provided with
amounts and timing of delivery. The Compensation Statement shall
be furnished to the ARC for approval. The DOR/Project Manager
shall be responsible for finalizing all agreements required and
provide the compensation and rehabilitation measures set forth in
the Compensation Statement.



_45_                             Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
(b) The method of valuation of assets to be compulsorily acquired or
damaged by project activities, i.e., land, house, building, shops,
etc., must be based on comparative market values of similar assets
in the vicinity not to be compulsorily acquired.
(c) To ensure that after a reasonable transition period, PAFs and
SPAFs will be able to regain, if not enhance, their previous
standard of living, the ARC shall establish rehabilitation
measures to be provided to the PAFs and SPAFs which shall include
compensation in cash and in kind for the assets to be compulsorily
acquired or damaged by the Project, rehabilitation grants for the
suffering and hardship caused, and employment and training to
SPAFs.
4.       For the purpose of the implementation of the rehabilitation
measures of PAFs and SPAFs the following criteria shall be used:
(a) On the basis of the Compensation Statement prepared and approved
pursuant to Section 3(a) of these Guidelines, the DOR/Project
Manager shall furnish the Compensation Statements approved by the
ARC to the respective PAFs and SPAFs by a notice which shall
explain and quantify each of the rehabilitation measures, allowing
a period of time of not lens than 30 days to react. The notice
shall also state that failure to react within the prescribed time
will be considered as accepting the Compensation Statement and
thus allowing the commencement of Proiect works on the assets to
be acquired or damaged.
(b)  In the case of PAFs, the Compensation Statement shall include:
(i) compensation in cash for the asset(s) acquired or damaged due
to the Project, which valuation to be made pursuant to the
principles set forth in Section 3(b) of these Guidelines; and
(ii) a rehabilitation grant to cover the suffering and hardship
caused which would be based on family size and other criteria to
be determined by ARC.
(c) In the case of SPAFs, the Compensation Statement shall include:
(i) a substitute asset(s) of equal productive potential to the
asset(s) acquired or damaged by the Project; (ii) a rehabilitation
grant for the suffering and hardship caused which would be based
on the fam.ly size and other criteria to be determined by ARC;
(iii) employment for at least one member of the SPAFs; and (iv)
provision of training as required. For purposes of providing the
substitute asset(s) the SPAF shall either: (1) directly or with
the assistance of DOR/Project Manager identify a substitute
asset(s) and negotiate its purchase price with the owner(s) within
a ceiling price determined by ARC based on the prevailing market
values; or (2) accept the substitute asset(s) offered by HMG/N.
In the case of Option (1) the SPAF shall be allowed 30 days to
identify and reach an agreement on the purchase price. The
purchase price shall be paid directly by HMGIN on behalf of the
SPAF to the owner(s) and title immediately transferred to the
SPAF. If the SPAF is not able to obtain a substitute asset
through Option (1), the substitute asset to be offered by HMG/N



-46-                          Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
under Option (2) shall be of equal productive potential and in the
near vicinity, either by direct purchase as provided for in
Section 6(a) of these Guidelines or through HMG/N Resettlement
Company.
(d) Having taken action under Section 4(a) above and not later than 30
davs prior to the commencement of construction activities on the
assets acquired or damaged, the DOR/Project Manager shall take
necessary steps for payment of the compensatory amounts, issuing
of ownership title, provision of employment and training, payment
of rehabilitation grants, and other rehabilitation measures agreed
upon.
(e) In cases where expressly or otherwise the PAFs or SPAFs have
rejected the Compensation Statement, the total armount of
compensation shall be deposited into an escrow account (suspense
account) on the name of the PAF or SPAF, prior to the commencement
of work on the land or other assets, as proyided by law.
(f) In cases where land ownership or tenureships are disputed,
compensation will be paid into a suispense account to await the
desision of the Courts, and the land may then be entered for
construction activity.
(g) The agreement signed by and between the DOR/Project Manager and
the authorized representative of the concerned PAFs or SPAFs, as
the case may be, shall be legally binding on both parties.
5.  (a)  The Acquisition and Rehabilitation Committees for acquiring or
allowing damaging the land and other properties due to the Project
shall consist of the following persons and shall be established by
HMGIN:
- The concerned Chief District Officer         Chairman
- The concerned Land Revenue Officer           Member
- Representative of the concerned
District Panchayat                           Member
- Land Reform Officer of the concerned
District                                     Member
- The.Project Manager                          Member-cum-Secretary
- And such other person or persons as
shall be appointed from time to time
by HMGIN.
(b) The Project Manager shall execute the ACT" approved by the ARC in
accordance with the criteria and provishAis of these Guidelines.
(c) Whenever appropriate for implementing the ACRP, the Project
Manager may seek and receive necessary help from the local
concerned Chief District Officer andlor Zonal Commissioner and the
latters may provide the help so sought.
(d) The ARC may delegate some of its power to the Project Manager as
and when it deems necessary.



-47-
Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
6. ARC MAY ACQUIRE LAND THROUGH NEGOTIATION:
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act 2034, the
ARC may acquire land and/or other properties through direct
negotiation with the PAFs, if it is deemed appropriate in their
best interest, or with other landowners to obtain land on behalf
of SPAFs that opt for this option.
(b) ARC may initiate land acquisition process in accordance with the
provision of these Guidelines at any stage of the normal land
acquisition process under the Act already in progress, if any.
(c) In exercise of the power delegated to the ARC as per sub-clause
(a) above the ARC shall issue necessary orders and notices
defining the property to be acquired and conduct negotiations with
the concerned PAFs or other landowners or their authorized legal
representatives in order to acquire land or other properties for
the purposes of the ACRP.
(d) The ARC may instruct the concerned Land Revenue Office (Malpot
Karyalaya) to freeze the sale or transfer of land or properties to
be acquired at any time as it deems fit for purposes of the ACRP
and on the receipt of such instruction the concerned office shall
be under obligation to follow the same.
7. POWER TO REMOVE DIFFICULTIES:
In case of any difficulty that may arise during the course of the
implementation of the "Guidelines" His Majesty's Government, exercising the
powers derived from the prevailing laws, may issue necessary orders or
instructions to remove such difficulty and the same shall be deemed to have
been included in these "Guidelines".
8. LEGAL REMEDY SYSTEM:
The PAFs and SPAFs may present their claims and grievances to the
Zonal Commissioner and pertinent Courts in accordance with the provisions
of the Act and other pertinent legislation.



-48-                         Annex 8
Page 1 of 8
NEPAL
January 24, 1989
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
ACQUISITION, COMPENSATION AND 3ZEABILITATION PLAN
1.       Obiective of the Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation
Plan (ACRP)
1.1      The objective of the ACRP is to implement the provisions for
acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation set forth in the Land
Acquisition Guidelines, 2045 applicable to Arun III Access Road Project, so
as to ensure that after a reasonable transition period, the project
affected families (PAP) and seriously project affected faw'lies (SPAP)
(para. 2.2) will be able to regain, if not enhance, their previous standard
of living.
1.2      This ACRP is based on the principles and procedures set forth in
the Land Acquisition Guidelines. 2045, applicable to Arun III kccess Road
Project. It covers the first year road construction (approx. 70 km) based
on cadastral survey of all land parcelt and structures directly affected
and on projection of the socio-economic characters of SO families surveyed.
The ACRP is subject to revision, as may be required, to respond to the
needs of thq remaining families according to the principles of the
guidelines noted above.
2.       Gross Income and Compensation Packages
2.1      Gross Income of PAFs and Income from Land on the Right of Way
The annual gross income and the income from land falling within
the Right of Way (RoW) of the SO PAP random sample is given in Table l.
The gross income includes that from their total land holding
(i.e., the value of crops produced in one year, whether these are sold or,
as is more frequent, consumed by the PAFs themselves), as well as all other
sources of income (e.g., sale of dairy products, animals, vegetables,
interest on loans, labour wages, business income, service pensions,
priestly services, tailoring, portering, etc.).
The income from land within the RoW is the estimated cash value of
crops produced in-one year (including fruit and vegetables grown on the
land).
2.2      Proiect Affected Families and Seriously Project Affected Families
The criteria for aetermining which of PAFs are SPAPs are set out
in the Land Acquisition Guidelines, 2045 applicable to the Arun III Access
Road Project, paragraphs 2 (h), (i). (j) and (k).
There are 10 PAFS in the random sample whose principal residence
falls within the RoW, and who therefore become SPAFs. They are:
In Manakamana Panchayat: PAFs Nos 40, 70, 99 and 168
In Pangma Panchayat:  PAFs Nos 21, 24, 42, 51, 70 and 97.



-49-                ~~~~Annex 8
Page 2 of 8
To determine whether any of the other PAFs of the sample are
SPAFs, it is necessary to know the percentage of income lost due to land
falling within the RoW. If the income from land lost represents half or
more than half of the PAF's gross income, then he becomes a SPAF. The
percentages of income lost to the sample PAFs are shown in Table 1, from
which it is seen that three PAFs fall in this (SPAF) category. None of
these three SPAFs are amongst those losing their houses, so the total
number of SPAFs in the 50 PAF sample becomes 13 (26 percent), 20 and 6
percent as a result of loss of residence and loss of substantial income-
-creating landholding respectively.
2.3      Types of Compensation Packages
Of the 50 PAFs in the sample, 43 (862) prefer cash compensation, 6
(122) prefer replacement land either in the same District or in the Terai,
and only 1 (2Z) said he would prefer to be resettled elsewhere (in his case
in the Terai). Nobody expressed a preference for compensation in the form
of employment or training. The options preferred are summarized in
Table 2.
The total amount of land lost by the 7 PAFs (of whom two are
SPAFs) who said they would prefer replacement land is 14.1 Ropani (0.72
hectares), of which 6 Ropanis is irrigated. Though the amount appears
comparatively small, nevertheless, surplus cultivatable land either in the
hills or in the Terai is in very short supply. For those stating this
(replacement land) preference, the SPAFs themselves and the authorities
will locate alternative land of satisfactory ,aality.
Table 3 lists the PAFs1SPAFs expressing a preference for
replacement land/resettlement.  In our summary tables of amounts of
compensation, we have included these PAFs/SPAFs, so that the cost of
compensation can be assessed, even though the amount of money may be used
to acquire alternative land.
2.4      Land Values
Generally, in the area, current prices for land which is not close
to footrails are in the region of Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000 per Ropani (equals
5,400 sq ft, say 500 sq metres) for khet and bari, respectively.
Khet lar.d is flat, either naturally or (more commonly) formed by
terracing, and is capable of holding water and could therefore be used for
the cultivation of paddy (rice). It sometimes is irrigated, but working
irrigation schemes in the areas traversed by the road are few. Therefore a
separate general val4ation category of "irrigated land" does not appear to
be at this stage justified, and when irrigated land is encountered it will
be treated on a case by case basis (in the Pangma area which is the subject
of the current report, there are some irrigated fields where land values of
Rs 7,200 per Ropani have been suggested).
Bari land differs froni khet in that it is often sLoping.  It is by
far the most common category of cultivated land through which the alignment
passes, accounting for an estimated 842 of the whole land to be acquired.
However, in the area between Tlumlingtar and Chhyangkuti, where the socio-



Annex 8
-50-                        Page 3 of 8
economic survey has been conducted, and where the random sample was taken.
The proportion of khet land is higher than in the road alignment area as a
whole. In the sample area, the ratio bari to khet land is 79/21, compared
with 84/16 generally for the whole alignment. This factor needs to be
taken into account when using the random sample to produce projections for
thc whole road.
Also, typical current land prices vary considerably depending on
how close the land is to foot trails and to bazaar areas. The socio-
economic survey has been conducted in Pangma and Manakamana Panchayats,
which are relatively densely populated and farmed. The road alignment in
this area is nowhere very far from footrails, and all within easy walking
distance of the administrative centre of Khandbari, from the commercial
centre at Manebhanjang and from Tumlingtar, where the District's sole
airstrip is located and t4here signs of increasing economic activity,
undoubtedly in anticipation of the road, is already apparent.
These factors appear already to have pushed up land prices which
have been used as a guide to access the "compensation packages' for the
PAFe and SPAFs. For instance, some land transactions in the Khandbari area
at Rs 90,000 per Ropani have been reported, and because the compensation
payable is supposed to be equivalent to the "current market value' of the
land, these (admittedly very high) values have been applied to some similar
areas of land to be acquired. The land values applied to the PAFs in order
to derive suggested amounts of compensation as given on Table 4 have been
arrived at from local enquiries into recent land transactions in the study
area.  More accurate values of land transactions will be obtained through
the District Land Value Office of land transactions covering one year
period. The values given in Table 6 may therefore have to be modified on
receipt of the comprehensive data.
It is known that Khet and Bari land in the Manakamana and Pangma
Panchayat areas are in general valued higher than in most other Panchayats
tn the District. However, since compensation to be paid should reflect
current market values, these have been used in this ACRP. Elsewhere, as
stated above, average values of Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000 for Bari and Khet
land, respectively, have been used, with a multiplying factor of 10 percent
to allow for higher values in special locations (e.g., close to bazaars,
etc.).
2.5      Buildins Values
Using current rates for building materials, a typical cost for
plinth (floor) area of Rs 95 sq ft (say Rs 1,000 per sq metre) has been
calculated. This is. for a simple thatched-roof single or double storey
house (for a double storey house the 'plinth' area is simply doubled, or
plinth area added to first floor area) built in mud-mortared masonry. On
acquisition by HMG, a contractor is employed (by the project) to carry out
the demolition, but the materials from the house (e.g., timbers and stone)
remain the property of the (former) owner. The Rs 95 per sq ft unit rate
for acquisition/compensation was checked against prices stated by local
inhabitants to be the values of their houses, and gives good correlation.
Prices of individual houses will of course vary considerably, depending on



-51-                             Annex 8
-51-                    ~~~~~~Page 4 of 
their construction (e.g., whether corrugated iron roofing or cement are
used), and location, but for the current estimating exercise the above rate
has been employed. Table 5 gives the estimated value of houses falling
within the RoW.
In arriving at the above per sq ft building value, the following
assumptions have been made:
(1) Depth of foundation 3'-0", width 2'-6"
(2) Height of one storey 7'-0'
(3) Walls of dressed stone masonry in mud mortar
(4) Roofs thatched
(5) No masonry partitions (plank or bamboo partitions only)
(6) Wall thicknesses 1'-3"
Based un the above, the estimate has been made as follows:
(1) Earthwork, 255 m ft e Rs 0.85 per m ft
(2) Stone masonry, 820 m ft e Rs 9.70 per m ft
(3) Timber, 15 m ft e Rs 90 per m ft
Above gives per sq ft (plinth) estimated cost of Rs 95.20, say Rs
95 per sq ft.
2.6      Crop and Tree Values
Typical crop productivities and market prices for agricultural
products for the study area are given in Table 6 and 7, respectively.
Based on these data, the values of standing crops on land within the RoW
will be calculated (this has not been done in the present case, as
explained in 2.7 below), as also the hardship allowances payable to SPAFs
as described in 2.8 below.
Similarly, typical prices of fruit and other trees have been
collected, as also their yield (for fruit trees) and prices of fruit.
These data have been used to calculate 'normal' compensation payable as
well as hardship allowances for SPAFs, as described in 2.7 and 2.8 below.
Details are given in Tables 8 and 9.
2.7      The Amount of "Normal" Compensation
The amount of 'normal" compensation (i.e., excluding hardship
allowances payable to PAFs and SPAFs. and other rehabilitation measures, as
described in the Guidelines) comprises sums for the value of land lost
(i.e., falling within the RoW), for the value of trees on that land, for
standing crops (if in place when the land is acquired) and for houses and
buildings within the RoW.
The values for compensation purposes. for land, houses and trees,
have been dealt with above, based on which the "normal" estimated
compensation payable to each of the 50 PAFs his been calculated, and is
summarized in Table 10 (2 sheets. L each for Manakamana and Pangma
Panchayat). These estimates do not include any compensation for standing
crops, because it is not known precisely when the land will be acquired,



Annex 8
-52-                               Page 5 of 8
and what (if any) crops will be on the land at that time.  The amounts of
land owned by PAYs, on which the compensation amounts given in Table 10 are
based, are summarized in Table 11.
A sample "Recomnendation for Compensation Form* is attached at the
end of this report.
2.8      The Amount of Hardship Allowances
The Guidelines allow for the purchase by HMGIN of a 'substitute
asset' (e.g., alternative land) for SPAPs, if that is what they prefer to
cash compensation. The number of PAFs who are SPAPs by virtue of losing
land, the income from which is 502 or more of their total income, is small
(3 PAFs, representing 62 only of the 50 PAP sample), and none of these
PAFa/SPAF. stated a preference for replacement land rather than cash
compensation. However, two of the PAFs who are SPAFs by virtue of their
homes falling within the RoW were amongst the seven PAPs who stated a
preference for replacement land, and so this option, as set out in the
Guidelines (para. 4 (c)l, will need to be followed up.
The critetia used to determine hardship allowances are as follows:
(i)  A cash amount equivalent to the annual income from crops on the
land lost will be provided.
(ii)  Where fruit trees fall on the asquired or damaged land, the
replanting costs for respective tree varieties plus a cash amount
equivalent to the value of (fruit) produced by the trees over a
four year period will be provided.
(iii)  For the loss of a principal residence falling within the RoW,
compensation (in addition to normal compensation of the value of
the house) in the form of house rent for a one year period will be
provided according to market rates.
2.9      Number of PAFs and S}PAFs for Whole Alignment
Wherever possible. in the built up areas the RoW will be decreased
to suitably reduce acquisition and demolition of houses. Below is an
estimate of the total length of road passing through cultivated land and
for which the 30 m width RoW will therefore need to be acquired. The road
lengths are divided into "khet" and 'barin land (see 2.4 above for
definitions).
Section                                         Estimated Length (Km)
Khet     Bari       Total
Basantapur/Maya Khola                        4.96    16.57        21.53
Maya Khola/Sabhaya Khola                      2.24    24.70       26.94
Sabhaya Khola/Chhyang!uti                    8.62    20.12        28.74
Chhyangkuti/Phaksinda                         1.17     6.24         7.41
Chhyangkuti/Power House                       6.62     8.08       14.70
Route to Adit                                 -        8.80        8.80
Total                                       23.61    84.51       108.12



Annex 8
-53_                           Page 6 of 8
The length of cultivated land of the 504 PAPS for which the Socio-
Economic questionnaire has been carried out is 23.14 km, so the average number
of PAFs per kilometre is equivalent to
504
-----  m  21.78
23.14
For the whole alignment, therefore, the total number of PAFs is
estimated to be 2,355 (108.12 km x 21.78).
Using the 50 PAF sample as a basis, the number of SPAFs on the whole
alignment would be 0.26 (26Z) x 2,355 - 612.
In fact, it is thought likely tlat the number of SPAFs elsewhere in the
alignment could be less, because the area through which the survey has been
carried out is more densely populated than most other areas, and so the number
of SPAFa resulting from their principal residences falling on the RoW is likely
to be fewer (this category comprise 20 of the 26 percent SPAFs in the sample
area).
3.       Summary, Conclusions and Comments
3.1      General
The amounts for compensation of land, assets and hardship as provided
in this document are sufficient to re-establish the PAPs and SPAFs pre-existing
standard of living after a reasonable period of time. The total estimated cash
compensation based on an analysis done as carefully as possible in accordance
with the Guidelines, of the 50 PAF random sample taken from the 504 socio-
economic questionnaires completed so far, is Rs 2,317,133, comprising Rs
2,105,037 (91Z) and Rs 212,096 (92) for "normal' compensation and hardship
element (payable to SPAFs), respectively.
A summary of the results of the analysis is given in Table 12.
Based on this sample alone, total cash compensation (including hardship
allowances) for acquisition of land (including trees) and property within the
road RoW for the whole project would be of the order of Rs 109,137,000 (Rs 10.9
Crores). This is based on the assumption that the number of PAFs and SPAFs
would be 2,355 and 612, respectively (see section 2.9), for an estimated 108 km
of the alignment (say 60Z) passing through cultivated land.
For the 50 PAF sample, the 'normal' compensation amount consists of:
Compensation for land   - Rs 1.036,945 (492)
.  trees  - Rs   347,280 (17Z)
. houses - Rs   720,812 (34Z)
Total            Rs 2,105,037
For the whole alignment this would represent Rs 99,147,242 (Rs 9.9
Crores), for which almost 50z is for land compensation.  We estimate that the
proportions of Khet and Bari land elsewhere along the alignment (outside the



Annex 8
-54-                            Page 7 of 8
Hanakaans and Pangma Panchayat9 where the survey was carried out) will be 16
and 84 percent, compared with the 21 and 79 percent of this area, and that Khet
will generally bt more costly than Bari Land (averaging Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000
per Ropani, respectively). In the study area, Bari was often more costly than
Khet Land, the values being distorted by potential for residential/commercial
development.
Based on the assumption that the 50 PAF sample reflects only the
situation in the 23.14 km cultivated stretch of Manakamana and Pangma Panchayats
(Sabhaya Khola to Chhyangkuti--see section 2.9 above) covered by the survey, and
that elsewhere the ratio and prices of Khet and Bari would be more as described
in the preceding paragraph, the total 'normal" cash compensation for land
throughout the whole alignment is likely to be of the order of Rs 30,000,000
rather than Rs 48,582,000 (492 of Rs 99,147,242) as given if the sample study is
taken as typical.
However, it is estimated that the total cash compensation payable is
likely to be substantially less than the above figure, because the survey
conducted has been through the most densely populated and intensely farmed area
of the alignment, which has given per PAF or per kilometre compensation amounts
in excess of the likely average for the whole alignment.
A further factor is that the number of fruit trees elsewhere along the
alignment is less than in the study area, and the number of buildings encroached
on will also be less. If a (admittedly arbitrary) 10 percent reduction in these
2 elements is assumed, the total "normal cash compensation becomes say Rs
75,000,000 (Rs 7.5 Crores), comprising:
Compensation for land   - Rs 30,000,000 (40Z)
' trees  - Rs 15,000,000 (202)
0 houses - Rs 30,000,000 (402)
Total           Rs 75,000,000
For the estimated 108 km cultivated land traversed by the alignment,
this represents Rs 694,444 per kilometre compensation, for an average of say Rs
395,000 per kilometre of road (bearing in mind that while some substantial
stretches of road will encroach on no cultivated land, so requiring no
acquisition cost, other stretches will require extensive acquisition).
3.2      First Year Construction
Assuming that the first year's construction will cover a 70 km roadway
length, 90 percent of which will be through cultivated land for which the 30 m
RoW width will need to be acquired (together with assets on this width), the
total road length for acquisition will be 63 km (90Z of 70 km).
The 90 percent cultivated land figure is higher than is likely to be
encountered, and is of course higher than for the alignment as a whole.



Annex 8
-55-                          Page 8 of 8
The first year construction progranme is assumed to include the
following:
km            To Be Acquired
of road   Khet       Bari      Total
Basantapur Northwards        20      2.88       15.12      18
Tumlingtar Southwards        20      2.88       15.12      18
Tumlingtar Northwards        30      5.67       21.33      27
70                            63
Based on the sample survey and conments above, the number of PAFs to be
compensated in order to enable the first year consoruction to go ahead is
estimated to be 1,372, of whom 35 would be SPAFs. The possible amount of
compensation (suggested compensation packages are subject to the scrutiny and
approval of the Acquisition Rehabilitation Committee) will be of the order of Rs
55,000,000 (5.5 Crores) comprising:
30 km through Manakamana and
Pangma Panchayats e Rs 826,786 per km of road  - Rs 27,088,800
40 km total Basantapur Northwards and
Tumlingtar Southwards e Rs 694,000 km of road  - Rs 27,760,000
Total             Rs 54,848,800
(Say Rs 55 million)
Already the centre line setting out and cadastral work for the
Basantapur and Tumlingtar northwards sections are completed, and currently work
is proceeding on the section from Tumlingtar southwards. Cadastral work on
this, and publication of the appropriate acquisition notices, will be completed
by the end of January 1989.
NOTE: Attachments located in
Attachments:            Project File.
Table 1:   Details of Current and Lost Income
Table 2    Types of Compensation Options
Table 3:   List of PAFs/SPAFs Expressing Preference for Replacement Land or
Resettlement
Table 4s   Estimated Valuation of Land Fallen on RoW
Table 5:   Type and Estimated Value of Houses Falling Within the RoW
Table 6s   Crop Productivities in the Study Area
Table 7:   Market Price of Agricultural Products
Table 8:   Price of Fruit Trees
Table 9:   Price of Fodder Trees
Table 10:  Normal Estimated Compensation Amounts (Excluding Hardship)
Table 11:  Amounts and Type of Land Owned by PAFs
Table 12:  Summary of Compensation for Sample Survey
Sample:  Fecommendation for Compensation



Annex 9
-56-                           Page 1 of 8
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
ECONONIC EVAWUATION METHODOLOGY
A. Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan
1.       The economic viability of the Arun III hydroelectric scheme as the
least cost alternative has been determined based on Nepal's Least Cost
Generation Expansion Plan. The Plan was developed by HMGN using a rigorous
four-step approach, as follows:
(a) standardized cost estimates were developed for eight candidate
hydroelectric projects, each of which had been studied to either
the prefeasibility or the feasibility level, and thermal peaking
plants (gas turbines-GTs). Each project's costs included
transmission costs which were not common to all expansion
sequences. All costs were measured in terms of border prices;
(b) alternative expansion sequences that satisfied the load forecast
were developed based on combinations of hydroelectric projects,
supplemented by peaking thermal generation (GTs), as required;
(c) for each expansion sequence, the present value of the capital and
operating costs was determined using a discount rate of 102, and
the least (economic) cost generation expansion sequence was
identified; and
(d) sensitivity analyses were conducted on the least cost sequence to
variations in the load growth, discount rate, fuel prices and
generation planning criteria.
2.       The least cost sequence consisted of load management and the
staged development of the 402 MW Arun III project. HMG/N has proposed that
the first three 67 MW units be installed during 1996-1997 in line with the
projected growth in electricity demand. The second three 67 MW units would
be commissioned during 2000-2006.  The implementation of the second stage
could be accelerated if agreement is reached on bulk export sales (100 MW
or more) to India.
B. Economic Internal Rate of Return
3.       Although the joint Arun III Access road/hydroelectric scheme would
play a crucial role in the optimal development and operation of Nepal's
power subsector, its benefits cannot be separated from those of other
least-cost generation, transmission and distribution development programs
and institutional improvements. In these circurstances, having established
that the project is part of NEA's least-cost exiansion program, it is
appropriate to carry out the cost benefit analysis on NEA's entire
investment program to ensure that the entire plan Is justified. For this
reason, a "time-slice" of NEA's investment program for 1989/90 - 2000101



-57-                             Annex 9
Page 2 of 8
was analyzed. Capital, operation and maintenance costs, including the
costs of the access road, and benefit streams are shown in Attachment 3.
All costs were expressed in terms of their equivalent border values.
4.       A minimum measure of the benefits associated with the time-slice
of NEA's investment program is given by incremental sales revenue. Using
the average tariff revenue of NRs 1.39/kWh prevailing in July 1988 for
sales within Nepal and rJRs 1.0/kWh for export sEles to India, the (IRR was
estimated to be 5.6Z. H4owever, this rate of return is not based on
consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for electricity. It reflects the fact
that the 1988 tariff rate is equal to only about 382 of the long run
marginal _osts associated with the least cost of electricity supply,
including the Arun III Project. Therefore, a further analysis was carried
out to estimate consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for incremental
electricity sales that would represent a truer measure of potential
benefits. A lower bound estimate for WTP was obtained as follows: for
most low voltage (LV) consumers, their WTP was based on average existing
tariffs for private sector schemes for supplying residential and commercial
consumers (NRs 6.00/kWh). For other LV, high voltage and medium voltage
consumers, WTP was measured in terms of the incremental operating costs of
meeting their demands for electricity using auto-generators which would be
displaced by the public supply of electricity (i.e., NRs 2.63/kWh). On
this basis, the calculated weighted average WTP for all consumer groups is
NRs 4.11/kWh, and the economic internal rate of return (IRR) is about 142.
This measures is still a lower bound to the estimated (IRR because it
assumes that consumers' WTP for the improved reliability and quality of
electricity supply is zero. Also, the measure excludes any benefits
resulting from the utilization of the access road project of 192 kms by
non-power related traffic.



Annex 9
-58-                            Page 3 of 8
Attachment 1
NEPAL: Electricity Sales by Sector, 1976 - 1987 a/ b/
1976            1981            1987       Growth Rate. t p.a.
1976   1981   1976
GWh X           GWh Z           GWh G        -81    -87    -87
Residential    61.8 ( 58)        78.6 ( 48)    164.9 ( 42)   4.9   13.1    9.3
Industrlal      32.1 ( 30)       50.2 ( 31)    147.4 ( 37)   9.3   20.0   14.9
Commercial       9.2 ( 8)        23.2 ( 14)      32.3 1 10)  20.4    5.7   12.1
Others           4.1 (  4)       11.2 ( 7)       45.1 ( 11)  21.9   26.1   24.4
Total    107.2 (100)       163.2 (100)    391.1 (100)   8.8   15.7   12.5
a/ Fiscal years.
b! For consistency, the figures are all based on the tariff classification
existing before April 1983, in which the residential category included
schools, hospitals, offices, etc. (now included in the scommercialO
category), and the commercial* category included irrigation and water
supply and transportation (now reported separately).
Sourcest  NE. and IDA estimates



LOAD FORECAST FOR THE NEPAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM   /  / c/  /  /
sales (Gwh)                                                                                                Annual Crowth Rate (5
Sector                   1985      1987      1983      1989       1990      1991      1996      2006            1987-2006
Domestic                  141.0     158.9     175.?    19K.8       228.9    245.2    835.5    529.1 6.
Industrial                110.4     147.4     148.7     160.8      190.2     210.1     868.4    652.8                3.2
Comercial                  19.4      22.1      26.0      26.9       26.0      21.0      86.6      72.4               6.4
Non-comercial              31.1      86.7      58.5      U5.2       52.0      48.3      67.7    188.2                7.0
Street Lighting             9.6       6.7       8.0       8.6        4.8       4.4       4.9       6.0               0.1
Drinking Water              5.6       7.2       6.8       6.o        7.2       7.8      11.2      28.0               6.8
Transportation              1.7       1.6       1.9       1.9        2.0       2.0       2.2       2.?               2.2
Irrigation                  5.6       *.0      21.6      22.9       26.2      89.0      60.0    108.9               14.5
Self Consuption/
Temporary Supply           0.1       7.1       0.6       9.7       10.7      11.9      17.5      J0.5               8.0
Sub-Total                 824.4     894.7     440.2     492.2      640.5     604.8     992.   1,668.4                7.6
Loss Reduction Sales                           12.6      21.1       81.2      48.2     127.6     221.9                n/a
-            s                          _M                            ==                    -3 
Total Soles               824.4     804.7    452.0      511.8    577.5      047.5   1,019.8   1,776.8                8.2
Losses                    181.4     166.2     176.1     109.9      202.9     216.0     254.9    448.3                6.7
Bulk Sales to India        21.5      20.0       0.0       6.0        0.6       6.6       8.6       6.6  /            n/a
Bulk Import  from India    52.8      92.C       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total GOneratlo.          425.0     588.8     685.5     709.7      767.0     169.0   1,261.8   2,226.7               7.s
/  1906 data are *ctutl.  1907 data are att mted.
.  HUG/N plane to extend the Npal Interconnected system to include Mecbt A Raptl-Sheri (1990).  Sagermath  (1191) and
Seti-Mahakali (1990). Koshi & Janakpur were connected In 1996.
c/  Som numbers my not add up due to rounding.
, Because the sectoral sources of non-technical looss baov  not be  ideatified, the loss reduction savings have bee  put In a
saparate cteory.
/  Year roefer to fiscal year.
/  n/s n not applicable
2/ Bulk sales will Increase to 109.6 Cabh once the Arun-$ project Is comilosioned.
Soure : NEA
P N    m
0 o 
rt  o £



Annex 9
-60-                            Page 5 of 8
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN a/ b/
Capital c/       Operations
Year            Costs         and Maintenance           Benefits        Balance
1989                 5.96          0.00                    0.00           -5.96
1990                17.73          0.00                    0.00          -17.73
1991                15.31          0.00                    0.00          -15.31
1992d/              37.02          0.00                    0.00          -37.02
1993                81.15          0.16                    0.00          -81.31
1994               121.69          1.47                    0.00         -123.16
1995               169.62          3.10                    0.00         -172.72
1996               105.84          5.45                    4.43         -104.86
1997                35.68          7.15                   14.96          -27.87
1998                47.55          8.03                   19.75          -35.83
1999               116.36          9.05                   24.61         -100.80
2000                81.43         10.79                   29.65          -62.57
2001                31.42        120.20                   34.90           -8.72
2002                25.34         13.13                   40.36            1.89
2003                26.38         14.04                   46.08            5.66
2004                27.41         14.97                   52.01            9.63
2005                28.94         15.95                   58.17           13.29
2006                30.81         16.97                   64.58           16.79
2007                32.81         18.05                   71.55           20.68
2008                 ,.98         19.21                   78.96           25.77
2009                23.83         20.43                   86.71           42.46
2010                11.08         21.46                   94.51           61.97
2011                 0.00         22.12                  100.69           78.57
2012                 0.00         22.12                   94.51           72.39
2013                 0.00         22.12                  100.69           78.57
2014                 6.95         22.12                  107.30           78.23
2015                 8.97         22.12                  114.38           83.28
2016                 8.85         22.12                  121.95           90.97
2017                 6.05         22.12                  130.05          101.87
2018                16.27         22.12                  138.71          100.32
2019                13.62         22.12                  138.71          102.97
2020                15.90         22.12                  138.71          100.69
2021                16.06         22.12                  138.71          100.53
2022                24.93         22.12                  138.71           91.66
2023                30.32         22.12                  138.71           86.27
2024                56.06         22.12                  138.71           60.53
2025               114.39         22.12                  138.71            2.14
2026                72.28         22.12                  138.71           44.31
2027                25.88         22.12                  138.71           90.71
2028                28.98         22.12                  138.71           87.61
2029                91.81         22.12                  138.71           24.78
2030                81.03         22.12                  138.71           35.56



Annex 9
-61-                               Page 6 of 8
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
Capital         Operations
Year           Costs         and Maintenance          Benefits        Balance
2031               31.72         22.12                 138.71           84.87
2032               20.61         22.12                 138.71           95.98
2033               21.53         22.12                 138.71           95.G6
2034               34.49         22.12                  138.71          82.10
2035               23.32         22.12                 138.71           93.27
2036               19.49         22.12                  138.71          97.10
2037               17.19         22.12                  138.71          99.40
2038               17.55         22.12                  138.71          99.04
2039                6.67         22.12                  138.71         109.92
2040                6.93         22.12                  138.71         109.66
2041                7.21         22.12                  138.71         109.38
2042                7.51         22.12                 138.71          109.08
2043                7.84         22.12                 138.71          108.75
2044                8.14         22.12                  18S.71         108.45
2045            -792.88          22.12                  138.71         909.47
Rate of Return - 5.62
a/  All costs are expressed in economic terms.  Benefits are based on the
1988 average tariff revenues of NRs 1.39 per kWh: for domestic sales and
NRs 1.0/kWh for export sales. The benefits were the product of forecast
sales and the average tariff revenue.
b/  This analysis is based on the following investment schedule for the Arun-3
Access Road based on project base costs plus physical contingencies only
(Phase 1 and Phase 2).
c/  The economic cost stream for road construction is as follows: US$5.96 million
(1989); US$13.63 million (1990); US$10.81 million (1991); US$8.52 million
(1992); US$12.29 million (1993); US$10.4 million (1994).
d/  Include capital expenditures on the second stage of access road construction.



-62-                                Annex 9
Page 7 of 8
Attachment 4
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Base Case                   Average tariff revenue a/           5.6
Base Case                   WTP b/                             13.9
Variation in Sales
Base Case                   WTP with domestic sales - 15Z    12.5
Base Case                   WTP with domestic sales + 15Z    16.02
and export sales reaching 125MW
equivalent in 1996197
Variations in Costs
Capital Costs + 15Z         WTP                                1.2.8
Capital Costs - 152         WTP                                15.3
a/  NRs 1.39/kWh for domestic sales and NRs 1.0/kWh for exports; domestic
sales as per load forecast and maximum exports reaching 25 MW
equivalent in 1996/98.
b/  WTP is 3.9/kWh for domestic sales and export tariff is unchanged;
SCF   0.89.
Switching Value (Z Change in Parameter to Reduce IRR to 10Z)
Parameter                   Switching Value %)
Domestic Sales (WTP)                    38.0
Capital Costs                           67.3



-63-                               Annex 9
Page 8 of 8
Attachment 5
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
ARUN 3 (ACCESS ROAD / HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT) WITH 25 MM EXPORT
ECOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
VALUATION SASED ON WILLINGNESS TO PAY
DISCONT       TOTAL    TOtAL       tOTAL   TOTAL I   N.P.V.
RATE    TNEFItS    COSTS    INVEST. FIXED OEMI      MS    I.R.R.
0.00X   16,533.1  2,150.4    1,159.2   991.2   14,382.7
2.00X   7,941.8  1,522.6    1,018.1   504.S    6,419.3    O.OOX
4.00X   4,093.9  1,098.8       820.5   278.3    2,995.0    0.00%
6.00X    2,252.5    821.9      657.0   165.0    1,430.5    0.00%
8.002   1,313.5    637.3       533.4   103.9       676.2    0.00O
10.00     805.7    509.3       440.4    68.9       296.4    0.00
12.00X     516.1    416.9       369.3    47.5        99.2    0.00O
14.00X     342.9    347.6       313.6    33.9        (4.6)  13.91X
16.00X     23S.1    294.0       269.1    24.9       (58.9)   0.00C
20.00X     119.3    217.2       202.9    14.3       (98.0)   0.002
24.00X      65.5    165.7       156.9     8.8      (100.2)   o.o0
28.00X      38.3    129.5       123.8     5.7       (91.2)   0.00O
32.002      23.4    103.1        99.3     3.8       (79.6)   0.00O
36.00%      14.9      83.4       80.8     2.6       (68.5)   0.002
40.002       9.8      68.4       66.5      1.9      (58.6)   0.002
SENSITIVItY TO   SENSITIVITY          SENSITIVITY                      NEW
DONSTIC   TO CAPITAL            TO TOTAL                       I.R.R.
SALES      COSTS                COSTS                            x
-88.62    1240.8                668.82                         0.0
82.52     630.5               421.6%                         2.0
-74.92     365.02               272.62                         4.0
-65.22     217.72               174.02                         6.0
-53.02     126.82               106.1X                         8.0
-38.02      67.32                58.22                        10.0
-19.9X      26.9X                23.8X                        12.0
1.42      -1.52                -1.3X                        14.0
26.22     -21.92               .20.OX                        16.0
86.52     -48.32               -45.12                        20.0
162.12     -63.86               -60.52                        24.0
254.32     -73.72               -70.42                        28.0
364.42     -80.22               -77.3X                        32.0
494.5X     -84.8X               -82.12                        36.0
k46.X5     -88.11               -85.72                        40.0
I.R.R.               I.R.R.               I.R.R.
-15.002   12.46X      15.002   12.842      10.002  13.102
15.00   15.10    -15.00    15.33X    -10.00   14.93X



- 64 -
Annex 10
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, Arun Access Study, Volumes I
and II, September 1987
2.    Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, Arun Access Road Detailed
Engineering and Design, August 1988
3.    Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, Arun Access Road Bid
Documents, Volumes I -V, August 1988
4.    JICA, Arun  II Hydropower Project Feasibility Study, June 1987
5.    Acres International, Ltd., Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan -
Nepal, prepared for Nepal Electricity Authority, April 1987
6.    Nepal - Reviewq of Power Subsector, January 1988
7.    Computer printout on the Arun III Hydroelectric scheme economic
analysis, October 1988
8.    Markandya, A. 1988.  The Macroeconomic and Budgetary Impacts of the
Power Program in Nepal over the Period 1989-1996 with Special
Reference to the Arun III Project, Kathmandu, April 1988. This
document was prepared under UNDP contract NEP 80/006.
9.    NEPAL:  The Processing of the Arun-3 Hydroelectric Project.  Paper
presented by World Bank at Donors Meeting on the Development of the
Nepal Power Subsector, Paris, France, May 10-11, 1988.
10.   Nepal Electricity Authority.  The Role of NEA is the Development of
the Nepal Power Subsector, Kathmandu, February 1988
11.   Transcript of Proceedings of the Donors Meeting on the Development of
the Nepal Power Subsector, Paris, May 10-11, 1988.
12.   NEPAL:  Arun III Hydroelec  ic Scheme - Technical Review
13.   NEPAL:  The Roads and Road Transport
14.   Forestry Action Plan Arun:  Watershed (An Action Plan of Arun Access
Road and Arun III Dam)
15.   Management of Environmental Impacts (with term of reference)
16.   Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan (with 12
attachments)
17.   Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation Terms of Reference and
Work Plan



-65-
Chart I
NEPAL
ARUN III ACCESS ROAD PROJECT
Organization of Project Implementation
|The Employe;-
oft/N-Projct 
Ch tE Engine r
Project MSnaget
lnpls cnt tion Unit_
DOR
Sintr  Rsidnt Snlor Resident  R                oesidet reurvey
Engineer    E           Engineer          Engin    r r       Enngnr r       _
(1 * 2)           _ (3 * 4)_                            _       
rSupport A Admin.
Recid nt  R  id nt  R zid nt  R cid nt                            ~~~~Staff of OThe
(I  nO        ngnr En lner   n nr       Engne r                                         Engine rl
DOR support A
A   Admin  Staff for
EnAinet r     e                                                                                     Project Minager
a Nos.
Surveyors, Technicians,
Draftsmen, Clerical Staff
Local Staff Employed by
Consultant (same may be
avalloble from DOR



NEPAL
AIRUIN III ACC£SS ROAD PRWECT
Project Iwle_tmtion Schedule
_169                1960                1991                 12                  1995                1994
1  2    3-  4    1   2    3   4    1    2    3  -4    1    2           3  4     1   2      34 _ _   2_ 3           _
Road Construction
Tuilingtar-luu                                                   …X
Bas.ntapur-Tuml ingta -r--…
Maintenance Oepot
Road Maintenance
Consultancy Services             -…
Training
LOIC-                                - -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 211 127
X   J   n                                                                                                                      3 rl  Fuhre Hydrn Powel FoellUlos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m Ftu  Hd.P.e Fciite
ID                      y IN DIA,LI                                                                                                    NEPAL                                                          Rwrds.                                                            30.
DARCHULA i        '                     0MA          %sARUN  III ACCESS ROAD  PROJECT                                                                                    =       GoeldErhnod
>  _)   e  t                 .   \                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT LOCATION  - Rods UPde, Const-tdi-
)  ,,<>_      -BA]HANG        r,                         ,Aipt,
S.QAITADI       FAR         ,Z B  R                                                                                                                                                    nenton
%   o__0_>    >   - ~~~~~~~~'  .  \ j  I  ' *   (\.  *l    /    /  \                                                                   o     'ieleetedTownsondvilindes~~~~~~0 SIte T-  .. Vil.g
rDADELDHURA                                               U.I 
f  )  w%/SSTER1R         ~~~~ACHHAM  is   -AIhO                                               "i M           ,A3t                                                                     Notimnl Capital
w                                                     MID''    'R r
L  t {1     t             i  DA!ISKH I    ~~~~~~~~~                 ~~IAARKOI <              /I.At              tDiwr& s-d.d.ris
<  ;X;  < °#mndrnaw 1FC  --\ _ ¢ (>YX 9 7 Internotinnal Boundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zw Bo,,d,ie
>  _DIYA \    ,tr   tsBi,aR~W ES     Tn EO Pb N                       c                                                                                    D.Ipe Reio go d.ND           t . t ,  W,H    
,^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              I,. P,O&  GT A[P                                 I;N .) A |     * 1P          ;Ei         RAL.                 I  --D;°6KA°                  ' , ,
| /p >.^ . ll I N D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I A < - Ln,~
b    0  5  t0 IjUi 20   l                0           40           EX          120         t60  KIIOMeTERS~0  8 IN I                                                                  ASTE
<07,.   t  |            0         2D        40        60        SO        lOD  FIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0UK:E1.RI                               -  1-11
~~~~~j>Dhorer   1 26@  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~~~~~ ineK~~~~~~~~~~~~i  V-
~~a                                                                                                   B4A6                                                                   w _Sfwffs7VASI'SHA-26
Al,   _l                                                                                                  . D.IC                WI



