A '
     THE WORLD BANWIFC/M.I.G.A.
     OFFICE MEMORANDUM                                                                     RECEIVED
   LDATE:    May23, 1995

          TO:Mr. Ernst-Gunt         oder, Chairman, P N

       FROM: D. Joseph Wo         ce President, SAS

   EXTENSION:81429

    SUBJECT: NEPAL - Proposed Arun IUHydro Electric Project



                   Attached are one copy each of the Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations for
             Further Actions, and Note on the Conclusions and Recommendations for Further Actions,
             reflecting the findings and recommendations of the mission which visited Nepal in April
             1995.

                   The mission consisted of specialists in the following areas: power engineering (Task
             Manager), environmental impact assessment, anthropology, resettlement and rehabilitation
             and highway engineering.
   L               The findings of the mission reflect the status of the project as of mid-April 1995, in
             respect of the three areas for which investigation by the Inspection Panel was authorized by
             the Board.

                   We hope that with the adoption of the proposed remedial measures, the Panel will find
             the project to be in compliance with our relevant policies in the three areas of investigation.

                   Ail these remedial measures would have to be satisfactory to IDA. We will
             communicate to the Government the criteria to be met for these measures to be satisfactory


             Attachments: (2)

Mr. Ernst-GuntherBroder                     -2-                        May 23, 1995




cw and cc (with Attachments): Mr. Ahmed (LEGSA)

cc (with Attachments):
Messrs./Mmes. Drysdale, Salop (SASVP); Vergin, Barghouti, Uchimura, Cambridge
               (SASDR); Steer, Goodland (ENVDR); Mead (LEGSA); Derbez, Nicholas,
               Prennushi (SA2CI); Davis, McPhail, Jacobs (ENVSP); Rees, Redwood,
               Robelus (ENVLW); Koch-Weser (ASTEN); Socknat, Ghani (ASTHR);
               Mejia, Hoban, Unger (SA2EI).

SA2EIProject File
Asia Information Center

ACeyhan:
Document Name: Arun9568.Doc

                                                                                      May23, 1995

            NEPAL PROPOSED ARUN I11 HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
                       -
                            SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND
                    RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FURTHER ACTIONS


InvestigationArea 1: Environmental ImDact Assessment

           The access road to the Arun I11 dam and hydro project sites should be built along the
           valley alignment, provided the recommendations in the areas below are implemented to
           the satisfaction of IDA.

           The following aspects still need to be taken into account in the Environmental Impact
           Assessment.

(a) Spoilsdisposal.

           GON/NEA to identi@alternative options for all spoil disposal, estimate costs and impacts
           of these alternatives, and implement these where economically feasible to avoid river
           disposal;  *- .-
                   s -

       0   GON/NEA to calculate the likely cost of this change of policy and inform IDA whether it
           will be implemented through up-front contract modifications, or through the existing
           contract supervision and unit price framework.

Required as soon as possible, at the latest for Board Presentation.

(b)    Impact on the Wildlifeand Aquatic Life.
           Impact on wildlife and aquatic life estimated to be modest. Impact on fisheries resources
                          !

           still worth mitigating.

(b.1) Makalu-BarunConservationArea (MBCA).

       0   GON/NEA to demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, that building this road
           portion on the western bank is unavoidable;
       0   GON/NEA and MBCA to agree on mitigatory measures and compensation, satisfactory to
           IDA and taking into account national legislation.

Required for Board Presentation.

(b.2) Sal Forest Patches.

       0     GON/NEA to demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, that road portions cannot
             be located on adjacent non-forested ridges;
        0    Adequate compensation, conservation measures and forest management plans to be
              included in the RAP, satisfactory to IDA and taking into account national legislation.

Required for Board Presentation.

                                                        2
. -



      (b.3) Aquatic Life.

                    Establishment of a small fish hatchery to be included in the Regional Action Plan
                    (RAP).

      Required for Board Presentation.

      (c)  Impact of IncreasedTraffic on the Market Town of Hile.

                    GON/NEA to devise, in consultations with town residents, an appropriate solution,
                    including a traffic management plan.

      Required for Board Presentation.

      Panel of Exuerts.

                 GON/NEA to appoint two Panels of Experts.

      Required for Board Presentation.


      InvestigationArea>2: Involuntarv Resettlement Acquisition, Comuensation, and Rehabilitation
                           -                            -
      Issues

      Land Acauired along the Hill Route.

 L            0  GON/NEA to investigate the situations of the families affected by the Government
                 possession of land in Tumlingtar and in Basantapur (for construction of a road portion
                 from this town).

      Required for Board Presentation.

              0  GON to formulate a time-bound pian indicating the land to be returned to original owners
                 and to be utilized for future road construction, including measures for protecting the
                 standards of living of those whose lands will be possessed and the procedures to enable
                 original owners to regain their lands.

      Required for Board Presentation.

      Acauisition, ComDensation, and Rehabilitation Plan (ACRP) for the Valley Route.

       0  Because of unforeseen delay in implementation of the project, the ACRP for the valley route is in
          need of updating, to take into account changes in baseline data, cost and budget.

       0  As conceived in the ACRP the above updating would involve clarifications on certain related
          matters.

       Required for Board Presentation.

                                                               3
.  -




 L         InvestipationArea 3: ActionsInvolvinp Local People

           (i) Informed ParticipationThrough Public Consultations.
                       Field investigations found that communities consulted were fully aware of the Project and
                       were looking forward to its implementation. Therefore, it is concluded that no new
                       consultations would be useful until a decision has been made on project financing.

           (ii) Security Over Land Tenure.

                       GON/NEA to prepare a map showing the boundaries of forests managed by the forest
                       user groups active or being established along the valley route.

           Required as soon as possible, at the latest for Board Presentation.'

           (iii) An Action Program with Sociallyand Culturally Appropriate Components.

                    0  Addressed through the proposed Regional Action Program (RAP):

                            -. EioT\i to revise and expand the RAP, including:

                            .,. an action program including detailed description, budget, time table aná
                                institutional arrangements for the implementation of the preemptive measures (in
 L                              particular continuation of establishment of forest user groups along the valley
                                route alignment),
                            .,. mechanisms for coordination with Donors and for participation by various local
                                institutions active in the Arun Valley, for annual revisions, updates and
                                extenhions,
                            ... mechanisms for implementing and supervision of the programs under the RAP,
                                and,
                            ... procedures for monitoring.

           Required for Board Presentation.




       AC:nb
       ani119566.doc




            1       Further recommendations may be made following the review by the Legal Departmentof the Forestry
           Bylaws (April 1995)to determinewhether user group security of tenure over forest resources is assured (the

           Bylaws and annexes.
           review by the Legal Departmentwould not take more than a few weeks). We are still awaiting English copy of the

                                                                                                               May 23, 1995
                               -
   NOTE ON THECONCLUSIONSAND RECOMMENDATIONSFOR FURTHERACTIONS
                   NEPAL PROPOSED ARUN IllHYDRO ELECTRICPROJECT


   General

   Environmental Situationin the Lower and Middle Arun Vaüevs.

   Conclusion: The lower and middle Arun valleys are far from pristine and ecosystems are in decline.
   Very little or no pristine forests are left in the Arun valley. With the exception of relatively s                    d areas

   fuelwood, shifting cultivation, land clearing for agriculture and grazing.
   of "cloud forest''along the hill (ridge) access route alignment, forests are heady exploited for fodder,


   Environmental impact of the Pro-iect.


   Project (HEP) development canbe minimized and/or adequately compensated for, and the project has
   Conclusion: Ifproperly managed, the environmentalimpacts of the proposed Arun IIíHydro Electric
   the potential to brhfgsignificant longer-run social and economic benefits to its area of infíuence, as weii
   as energy benefits to the country as a whole.

   We will inform the Government of Nemi (GON) that IDA would need to be satisfied with
   GON's actions on ail the recommendations' given below, before presenting the proposed IDA
   Credit to the Board.

   InvestigationArea 1: EnvironmentalIrnrJact Assessment

   ComparisonBetween the Valley and Hill (Ridge) Access Road Aliments.

   Findings: The two access road alignments contrast significantly in environmental terms (Annex 1).
   The vailey route would create fewer adverse environmental and social impacts than the hill route. In
   addition to being considerably shorter, the valley route would adversely affect fewer people in terms of
   direct dislocation and the taking of agricultural land. It would also pass through Sal forests which
   contain relatively low bio-diversity and are well represented elsewhere in the country. At the same
   time, being located closeto the Arun River, the vaiiey route would provide improved access to a larger

   would benefit mainly residents of the first two districts.
   number of people in three districts (Dhankuta, Sanskhuwasaba, and Bhojpur), while the hill route

   Recommendation I: The access road to the Arun III dam and hydro project sites should be buiit
   dong the valley alignment, provided the recommendations in the areas below are implemented to the
   satisfaction of IDA.




L                   Actions with respect to recommendations for "spoilsdisposal" and "map showing forests managed by
                  forest user groups in the valley route" are required as soonas possible,at the latest for Board Presentation.

                                                              2


   Recommendation 2: The following aspects still need to be taken into account in the Environmental
L  Impact Assessment.

   Areas to be Addressed. Constructing the valley alignment would nevertheless involve some impacts in
   the following areasthat need to be addressed:

   (a)     Spoils disposal. Findings: IDA is concerned with the policy of disposingof road construction
          spoils in the river as a matter of principle and precedent. It recognizes that the approach, of
          placing surplus soil and rock materiais on selected river flats to be swept away by high river
          flows, has arisen from the particular site conditions of steep valieys with few environmentaliy
          stable alternative disposal sites, a river sediment load 100times as large as the disposed material,
          and a lack of road access during construction. Nevertheless this is not common or desirable
          international practice, and alternatives should be fdly considered.

          Recommendations: GON/NEA should: (i) identfi alternative options for all spoil disposal,
          estimate costs and impacts of these alternatives, and implement these where economically
          feasible to avoid river disposal; and, (U) calculate the likely cost of this change of policy and
          informIDA whether it will be implemented through up-fì-ont contract moáifìcations, or through
          the existing &tract supervisionand unit price fkamework.

   (b)    Impact on the Wildlife and Aquatic Life Findings:The impact of the project on the wildlife and
          aquatic life is expected to be modest.

   (b.1) Impact on Aquatic Life. Findings:              Impact on the fisheries resources would be worth
          mitigating.
                             I

          Recommendation: Establishment of a small fish hatchery should be included in the Regional
          Action Plan (RAP).


   (3.2)Makalu-Barun Conservation Area (MECA). Findings: The valley alignment cuts through this

         River.
         area along seven km between the powerhouse and the dam site on the western bank of the Arun


         Recommendations: (i) GûN/NEA should demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, that
         building this road portion on the western bank is unavoidable due to inappropriate geological
         conditions in the eastern bank; and, (ii) GON/NEA and MBCA should design and agree on
         adequate mitigatory measures and compensation, satisfactov to IDA and taking into account
         national legislation.

   (b.3) SalForest Patches. Findings: Between Tumlingtar and the dam site, 5-6 km of the valley route
         passes through the Satighat-Heluwabesi riverine Sal forests of which the habitat is becoming
         scarce in eastern Nepal.

                                                            3

         Recommendations: (i) GON/NEA should demonstrate, in a manner satisfactory to DA,that
L        the road portions cannot be located on adjacent non-forested ridges (due to inappropriate
         geological conditions or being too costly); and, (ii) adequate compensation, conservation
         measures and forest management plans, should be included in the RAP satisfactory to IDA and
         taking into account national legislation,.

   (c)   Imoact of Increased Traffic on the Market Town of Hile.            Findings: The access road
         begins almost at the middle point of the market street in Hile. The existing road in Hile is
         only 4 meters wide and the heavy traffic might be difficult.

         Recommendation: GONiNEA, in consultation with town residents should address the
         impact and devise an appropriate solution, including at least a traffic management plan.

   Panel of Experts

   Finding:      In June 1994 negotiations, GON and IDA agreed on one Panel of Experts, whose
   membership and expertisecould be expanded when and ifneeded.

   Recommendation! -&IN and NEA should appoint two Panels of Experts -- onefor the review ofthe
                           -

   engineering (in particular of the hydro power plant component) and the other for the review of the
   environmental and socio-economic impacts of the project (in particular ofthe access road).

   InvestigationArea 2: Involuntary Resettlement Acauisition, Compensation. and
I,                                                      -
   Rehabilitation Issues

   Land Acquired along thl: Hill Route.

   Finding I : Data about acquisition, compensation, and rehabilitation along the hill route is given
   in Annex 2. As of April 12, 1995,NEA had taken physical and legal possession of only 4.77 ha
   of land for which it has paid compensation. The total number of land owners affected by these
   acquisitions were 18. Interviews with 11 families affected by loss of land in Tumiingtar revealed that
   at least three ofthese families consider themselves to be Seriously Project Affected Families. Although
   the families have sought rehabilitation, no assistance has been provided to them. There may be sunilar

   Village Development Committee (VDC)has used the land paid for by NEA to construct a road
   claims by families aíected by acquisition of land in the Basantapur area as weli, where Basantapur

   stretching for about 2-3 kmfrom Basantapur.

   Recommendation 1:: GON should have NEA investigate the conditions of the families affected by the
   possession of the 4.77hectares of land and followingthe provisions of its guidelines offer rehabilitation
   assistance to the entitled families. This work should include the families affected by the land used to
   build the road portion from Basantapur.

   Finding 2: On April 5, 1995,the Minister of Finance informed IDA that "theland acquired in the
   hill route will be returned to the original landowners as per Clause 34 of the Land Acquisition Act
   2034, if no public construction is carried out on these lands."
L

                                                                         4



I/  be returned to original owners and to be utilized for future road construction. The plan should
    Recommendation 2: GON should formulate a time-bound plan indicating the amounts of land to

    describe measures for protecting the standards of living of those whose lands will be possessed as
    well as the procedures to enable original owners to regain their lands.

    Acquisition. Compensation, and Rehabilitation Plan íACRP) for the Valley Route.

    Finding 1: Because of unforeseen delay in the implementation of the project, the ACRP for the
    valley route is need of updating.

    Recornmendation I : GON should update the ACRP taking into account changes in the number
    of adversely affected persons, cost estimates and budget. As conceived in the ACRPZ, this
    updating should involve clarifications in implementation timetable (linking with construction of
    road and power project); leasing arrangements; mechanisms for land for land option;
    arrangements for resettlement of people of Amrang; organizational responsibility; and procedures
    for compensating forest user groups, the iMBCA, and villagers dependent on forest not yet
    transferred to forest yser groups.

   Finding 2: In addition to 430.4 ha of land which will be acquired for the hydro power sites,
    access road and transmission lines, about 491 ha of land are to be leased.

   Recommendation 2: GON should clarifir the mechanisms for leasing of land. As part of this
    process, the mechanisms for executing the leases and setting up lease terms should be defined
    indicating the rights and obligations of each of the parties to the contract.
                                !

    InvestigationArea 3: Actions Involving Local PeoDle

    The three actions required by OD 4.20 with respect to indigenous people should be extended to all

    consultations; (ii)
    residents of the Anui Valley.              These actions are: (i)             informed participation through public

    appropriate components.
                         security over land tenure; and, (i)an action program with socially and cuituraiiy


    (9       Informed Participation ThroughPublic Consultations.

    Findings: Field investigations found that communities consulted were fully aware of the Project
    and were looking forward to its implementation. Therefore, it is concluded that no new
    consultations would be useful until a decision has been made on project financing.

    Recommendation:When a decision to begin construction is taken, NEA should provide the following
    information to local people: (a) established road alignment, plans for feeder roads and opportunities for
    employment on road construction/ maintenance; (b) institutional arrangements, including HMGM,

                 The ACRP dated June 21, 1994, provided, among others, for preparation of full implementation schedulefor
L                 activities to be carried out in the first two years withui three months from the date of the order to commence
                  construction.

                                                               5


   donor, implementing agency, VDC and user group roles; and, (c) whether or not, at what cost, where
L  and when electricity will come to the valley. Further, NEA should increase effortsto reach marginal
   groups, prepare pamphlets in local languages and consider information shanng formats that are less
   technical and literacy-based.

   (ii)    Security Over Land Tenure.

   Findings: The cadastrai maps prepared in Dhankuta district 15 years ago and recently completed in

   mechanisms are in place whereby land titles can be adjudicated and established. However, forest land,
   Sankhuwasaba district are intended to register settlements and individual agricultural land title. Thus,
   including forest managed by community forest user groups, as well as national parks (e.g. Makalu-
   Barun National Park and Conservation Area) are excluded from the cadastral map. The cadastre,
   therefore does not provide individuals or communities with security of title over forest land. Protection
   and management of forests is laid out in the 1993 Forest Act. Implementation of the Act has oniy
   recently been established through the Community Forest Bylaws, dated April 1995.

   Recommendation: GûN should ask NEA and its Consultants to prepare a map showing the
   boundaries of forests -waged by the various forest user groups active or being established dong the
   valley route. Furthérrecommendations may be made following the review by the Legal Department
   ofthe said Bylaws whether securityoftenure over forest resources is assured3

   (iii)    An Action Program with Sociallyand CulturallyAppropriate Components.

I, people living in the areas affected by the project . This requirement would be addressed through the
   The various components of an action program should be socially and culturally appropriate for d the
   proposed Regional Actioh Program (RAP).

   Regional Action Program IRAP):

   Findings: Additional effort is required to bring the RAP to an acceptable level of preparation. The
   RAP is of strategic importance, especially in terms of the preemptive components, the program needs
   to be clearly defined and operational well before road constructionbegins.

   Recommendations: GON should revise and expand the RAP, in close coordinationwith the Donors
   active in the Area and with the participation of the various local institutions existing and active in the
   Arun Valley. The scope ofthe revised RAP is given in Annex3.

   Institutional CaDabilitv:

   Finding I: The community institutions operating in the valley are diverse and viable. Such groups
   generally have a good understanding of objectives and are active, illustrating the proactive
   characteristics of valley residents who are keen to take advantage of any opportunities available. The
   focus of these groups which have been traditionally operating in the Arun Valley for many years, is also

L                Thereviewby the Legal Departmentwouldnottake more thana fewweeks. We are stillawaitingEnglish copy of
                 the Bylaws and annexes.

                                                          6

   appropriate - forest users groups, women-in-development groups, groups active in agricultural
L  production, irrigation associations. Village development activities are now being underpinned by

   the central government budget directlyto each Village Development Community (VDC),bypassing the
   financial resources following the Decentralization Act which at present provides NRC. 300,000 ítom

   district bureaucracies. VDC chairmen are allocatingthese resources in innovative ways.

   Finding 2:      The institutional mechanism proposed is the Arun Basin Development Secretariat

   and service delivery mechanism in the vdey to respond to the needs identified by the communities.
   (ABDS), which does not, as presently constituted, meet the requirements of a participatory planning

   ABDS, as presently constituted and funded, lacks the capacity to undertake the detailed preparation
   and more importantly implementationand monitoring of the RAP.

   Recommendations: GON should include in the RAP institution-building actions on three ítonts:
   (a) community-based      institution-building   actions; (b) service-delivery    mechanism;
   (c) coordination with donors. The scope ofthe recommended actions is given inAnnex4.           aná,

     Valley Alignment                                    Hill (Ridge)Alignment




    430 ha to be requisitioned                           310ha. need to be requisitioned



    Transmission line willbe 120kms which is 20 kms
    shorter (saves Rps.340 d o n )                       (Rps 340 d o n more expensive).
                                                         Transmission line 140km or 20 km longer



                                                         Maximum gradient of 12%;maximumheight
                      a - *-                             2500 feet


    Maintenance costs likely lower; possibly does not    Maintenance costswill be substantidy higher
                                                         during dam construction because ofthe need
L   need to be an all weather road after construction.
    Can two months without motorized access be
    tolerated after construction? Light vehicles (jeeps, heavy (cement, steel), and some cargo cannot
                                                         for aiiweather usage, because loads willbe

    hand-steered 2-wheel mini-tractors, possibly max.    afford to be lost (turbines).
    1-ton minitrucks) will not damage the road
    severely.                                            As ridge alignment has many hairpinbends
                                                         and other curves and much altitudinal change
                                                         (2500ft), maintenance per km willbe higher.
    Servesthree districts (Dhankuta, Bhojpur and         Serves only one district. Communities on the
    Sankhuwarsava), as two spur (jeepable) roads         west of the Anin river would have to porter
    (Khandbariand Chainpur) are included in the          all goods down to the river, then up to the
    project under RAP. If ridge alignment is chosen      ridge route.
    then other district Phojpur) southwest of Arun
    valley willlikely build another road on the other
    side of the Anin dong the valley alignment. If
    valley alignment is chosen, people will partly build
    the ridgejeep track themselves.

    Benefits of roads willbe for three districts:
    increased opportunitiesfor a more sustainable
    agricultural development, improved educationand
    health, more effectivefamilyplanning and
    ecotourism development.
L

                  Valley Alignment                   8           Hill (Ridge) Alignment



                                                       Imports and exports more expensive,
would be a common route 47 kms extra). Imports
Road 76 kms shorter to Arun III (Upper Arun            transport longer and slower.
and exports cheaper, lessfuel used, faster. Fewer
hairpins than the ridge route, much less altitudinal
difference, and shorter.


First stretch up to Tudingtar traverses low
biodiversity area: mostly agricultural land. Between   Part of road goes along the edge of proposed
                                                       Mike Danda area (cloud forests) and passes
Tumiingtarand Num stretches with Sai riverain          through three other cloud forest areas.
forest of low biodiversity,but riverain Sal forest     Would this make extensionof Milke Danda
habitat threatened in Nepal, needs protection: fores   into a few forest remnantsunfeasible? Cloud
users groups, with strict forest management plan       forests are of high biodiversity.
and valley route aiignment should follow power
transmissionline overthe hili and not bisect this
habitat.

First stretch less steex-less erosion.                 Steep road: more erosion and land sliprisks.
 ~    ~~~~~~~                  ~          ~    ~~~



Landslide spots,identiíïed. Landslide will likely cut  Landslidescaused by cutting road. One
oniy one bend.                                         landslide might cut various bends (up to 12
                                                       bends cut by a single landslide have been
                                                       observed on other Nepali roads).
Encroachment on this alignment will be likely less     Encroachment likely more extensive: more
than on ridge alignment: many rich people will buy     people like to live on the ridge (because of
land. Valley istloo hot ahd dry.                       cooler climate, better visibility).

No snow; safer;fewer accidents.                        In winter during short periods there is snow
                                                       on the track. [Onthe Tnbhuvan Rajpath
                                                       people are willing to travel 90 km longer to
                                                       avoid the altitude difference: safer, more
                                                       convenient, less wear on vehicles].
Depreciation ofvehicles less: shorter distance, less   Depreciation ofvehicles would be greater:
steep.                                                 wear and tear shorten vehicle life and increase
                                                       maintenance costs on steep roads and those
                                                       subject to snow, more than valley alignment.

Far fewer social impacts as very few affected          Ridge densely populated. Road has to go
people. The valley is largely unpopulated along        straight through many villages.Enormous
most of the Northern sectors of the road partly        social and cultural impact.
because it is too hot in the valley and malaria was
restricted to the vailey. Note potential risk of
malarial recrudescencein valley route especiallyto
the extent Terai workers or foreigners enter for
road construction.

                    Valley Alignment                                  Hill (Ridge) Alignment



L  Forest remnants arevery widespread non-diverse          At least three patches ofmuch rarer `cloud'
   Salforest.                                              forest are currently bisected by the existing
                                                           trekkmg trail and are being actively converted
   Riverain sal forest habitats should be protected.       to slash-and-bum, overlopping, goats, fire
                                                           etc.

                                                           When the ridge route trail is upgraded to
                                                           jeepable standards, it should be diverted
                                                           around these patches of cloud forest and the
                                                           old trail deactivated so that the cloud forest
                                                           can regenerate.
   Riparian sal forest richer than regular sai and habitat Cloud forests have higher biodiversity and an
   isbecoming scarceinNepal.                               important function in capturing water.

   Biodiversity and endemism much lower                    Biodiversity and endemismmuch higher
                ~~      ~~         ~    ~~       ~      ~~

   Fewer and more disturbedhabitat, ingeneral more         `Cloud'forest rare, not as widespread (ait.
   widespread (Burma-fÓBangladesh and even                 3000 m.) as Sal;Cloud forest is not the
   Indonesiahas variants of Salforest).                    depauperate highmontane sub-nival habitats
                                                           which arevery widespread with low
                                                           endemismin the Himalaya.

L  Cut and fillless easy: more spoils, which cannotbe
   reused.                                                 Cut and ñiieasier: lessproduction ofunused
                                                           spoils.

                                                    10


                                                                                           Annex 2


        Data about Acauisition, ComDensation, and Rehabilitation Along:the
                                              Hill Route


             As of April 12, 1995, the process of notification and payment of compensation for
      the 310 ha of land required for the hill route had been completed. The above mentioned
      31O ha belong or belonged to 1635 landowners. The total number of parcels comprising
      the 310 ha is 2834. Out of the 2834 plots acquired, 24 belonged to public and 2 to privately
      established Guthi (Religious Trust) Corporations, and 16to schools. AJ the remaining 2794
      plots were privately owned. NEA records indicate that only one of the 2834 acquired plots

      receive compensation for 376 plots dong the hill route. In these cases, either the ownership
      had a tenant. NEA has not been able to award compensation to 283 landowners entitled to

      of the plots was being disputed in courts or the owners had migrated to other areas and
      could not be located by NEA, despite its repeated effortsuntil 1992.
                   -- -
            Hokiver, the legal process of transfer of ownership of the land to GON, as
      required by law, was completed for only 15 - 20 percent of the land for which
      compensation has been paid.

I,          NEA has taken physical and legal possession of only 4.77 ha of land for which it
      has paid compensation. The total number of land owners affected by these acquisitions
      were 18. "EA, except for the area already mentioned, has not taken physical possession
      of any lands for which it has paid compensation. Leí? free to utilize their land as they
      deem fit, the absolute majority of the people supposed to be affected by the loss of their
      land are yet to experience any adverse impacts from the loss of their lands.

             A number of houses were legally acquired but not a single house has been
      physically possessed by NEA (acquisition of physical structure has been confined to a
      single hut, used for rest during agricultural activity).


      used the land paid for by NEA to construct a road stretching for about 2-3 km from
             It is worth noting that the Basantapur Village Development Committee(VDC)has

      Basantapur.

             Interviews with 11families affected by loss of land in Tudingtar revealed that at least
      three of these families consider themselves to be SeriouslyProject Affected Families. There
      may be such claims by families affected by acquisition of land in the Basantapur area as well.
      Although the families have sought rehabilitation, no assistancehas been provided to them.

.


                                                                                            Annex 3
L                   Scopeof the Revised ReEional Action Program (RAP)

            The revised RAP should:

      1.    cover such concerns as drulking water supply, basic sanitation and primary health
      care, training for construction-related activity (*), income generation schemes and forest
      resource management, which were found by the mission to be generalized local priorities
      throughout the region, family planning, maternity and child care facilities and programs,
      construction of a fish hatchery, rural electdcation schemes to permit at least the largest
      population centers of the Arun Valley to benefit from the electricity generated by the project,
      settlement planning, inventory and mitigation actions for cultural heritage (**), environmental
      monitoring, continuation of establishment of forest user groups in the vaiiey route alignment
      and establishment of the Mike-Danda Conservation Area (***);

      2.    include detailed implementation programswhich should:
                  .e--
     (a)    de&e locahty-specdïc pre-emptive (to be taken prior to road construction), preventive
            and mitigatory actions, beginning with actions in the areas to be directly affectedby the
            valley access road comdor, and expanded over the years to the three Districts of the
            Anui Valley;

     (b)    include estimation ofthe associated costs;

     (c)    define tlìe institutions which would implement the action programs, assess their
            institutional capabilities and determine the necessary institutional support requirements;

      3.
      revise, update, and extend (geographically and sectorally) the actions to be undertaken
            define the participatory planning approach to be utilized, on an annual basis, to

      through the RAP within the said three districts; and,

      4.    cover monitoring of the implementation activities,which should clearly:

     (a)    idene: institutional responsibilities; operational procedures; logistical, materiai,
            stafñng, training and technical assistance needs; and, budgetary requirements;

     (b)    define the division of labor between Anin Basin Development Secretariat (AE3DS see   -
            below) and NEA's Arun Project Environment Management Unit (APEMU) with
            respect to regionwide and project-related actions and monitoring activities; and,

     (c)    those situated along or near the valiey road alignment -- wili be involved and how
            indicate how local communities and forest user groups and other groups -- especially

            ABDS willliaisewith them.

.

                                                     12



'L     (*) GON should ensurethat NEA directs its own and its contractor's efforts in training for
      road construction s u s , benefiting from IDA'S pilot project in Butwai. The said efforts
      should be weli-focused, and involving the contractor will bring benefits because he will have
      the best idea as to wherethere is marginal scope for bringing local skillsup to required levels,
      and the number of likelyjobs affected.

       (**) This part of the RAP should include a thorough survey and study of cultural heritage
      dong the valley alignment (the surveyistudy should be conducted with participation of local
      people by involving them in the cataloguing and monitoring of such traditions and places;
      and, should define measures which would not oniy mitigate damages to cultural propers and
      cultural heritage, but would proactively raise awareness of the local people).

      (***) This conservation area should be managed by local NGOs in cooperation with
      internationalNGOs (as in MBCA).

                                                       13


                                                                                           Annex 4
L
       w
       Institutional Capacitv Issues for the Revised RePional Action Propram




       building actions on the following three fi-onts:
             Im terms of institutional responsibilities, GON should include in the RAP institution-


       (a)   Community-Based Institution-BuildingActions. The actions should:

     (i)     include training for the institutions operating in the Arun Valley, notably in
             participatory planning of annual mitigation plans, participatory implementation and
             clonflict resolution given the large number of boundary disputes in particular for
             commonproperty resources; and,

             (ii)   -- enhanse women's role in these community institutions with further skills
       training. i




       (b)
       arrangements which would meet the requirements of a participatory planning and sewice
             Service-delivery Mechanism. GON should propose to IDA alternative institutional

       delivery mechanism in the valley to respond to the needs identified by the communities.

       (c)   Coordinationwith donors. GûN should give immediatepriority to coordination with
       the Donors and to. securing flexible funding to permit the institutional process to be put in
       place.

